 Risk Factors As described in Part I (“Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”), this report contains forward-looking statements regarding us, our business and our industry. The risk factors described below, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay our current quarterly distribution on our common units or grow such distributions and the trading price of our common units could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to make cash distributions to holders of our common units and subordinated units at our current distribution rate. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at our current distribution rate. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the risks described in this section. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions; • our debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • restrictions contained in our debt agreements; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. We depend on demand for and production of natural gas in the U.S., and a reduction in this demand or production could adversely affect the demand or the prices we charge for our services which could cause our revenue and cash available for distribution to decrease. Natural gas contract operations in the U.S. are significantly dependent upon the demand for and production of natural gas in the U.S. Demand may be affected by, among other factors, natural gas prices, weather, demand for energy and availability and price of alternative energy sources. Any prolonged, substantial reduction in the U.S. demand for natural gas would, in all likelihood, depress the level of production activity and result in a decline in the demand for our contract operations services and products, which would reduce our cash available for distribution. A reduction in U.S. demand could also force us to reduce our pricing substantially. Additionally, compression services for our customers’ production from unconventional natural gas sources such as tight sands, shales and coalbeds constitute an increasing percentage of our business. Such unconventional sources are generally less economically feasible to produce in lower natural gas price environments. A reduction in natural gas demand may cause such unconventional sources of natural gas to be uneconomic to drill and produce. These factors could in turn negatively impact the demand for our services. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. The loss of any of these customers may result in a decline in our revenue and cash available to pay distributions to our unitholders. We rely on a few of our customers for a disproportionate share of our revenue. The loss of all or even a portion of the contract operations services we provide to our largest customers, as a result of competition or 16 otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our agreement not to compete with Exterran Holdings limits our ability to grow. We have entered into an Omnibus Agreement with Exterran Holdings, and several of its subsidiaries. The Omnibus Agreement includes certain agreements not to compete between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and Exterran Holdings and its affiliates, on the other hand. This agreement not to compete with Exterran Holdings limits our ability to grow. We face significant competition that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance. Our industry is highly competitive and there are low barriers to entry. In addition, some of our competitors are large national and multinational companies that provide contract operations, aftermarket services and support and fabrication services to third parties, and some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive services or substantially decrease the price at which they offer their services, we may not be able to compete effectively. Some of these competitors may expand or fabricate new or more suitable compression equipment that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers that are significant producers of natural gas may purchase their own compression equipment in lieu of using our contract operations services. Any of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We may not be able to grow our cash flows if we do not expand our business, which could limit our ability to increase distributions to our unitholders. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow the per unit distribution on our units by expanding our business. Our future growth will depend upon a number of factors, some of which we cannot control. These factors include our ability to: • acquire additional U.S. contract operations services business from Exterran Holdings; • consummate accretive acquisitions; • enter into contracts for new service with our existing customers or new customers; and • obtain required financing for our existing and new operations. A deficiency in any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve growth in the level of our cash flows or realize benefits from acquisitions. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and our ability to increase distributions to our unitholders will be limited. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make accretive acquisitions. If we are unable to make these accretive acquisitions either because we are: (i) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (ii) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or (iii) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions would be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; 17 • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • mistaken assumptions about the cash generated or anticipated to be generated by the business acquired or the overall costs of equity or debt; • the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; • unforeseen operating difficulties; and • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our future funds and other resources. In addition, competition from other buyers could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay. Exterran Holdings’ integration of Hanover and Universal Holdings presents significant challenges that could negatively impact our business by disrupting our operations. We depend upon Exterran Holdings to provide us all of our operational staff, corporate staff and support services necessary to run our business. Exterran Holdings continues to face significant challenges in consolidating functions and integrating the Hanover and Universal Holdings organizations, procedures and operations in a timely and efficient manner. The integration of Hanover and Universal Holdings is costly, complex and time-consuming due to the size and complexity of each organization. The principal challenges include the following: • integrating Hanover’s and Universal Holdings’ existing businesses; • combining diverse product and service offerings and sales and marketing approaches; • preserving customer, supplier and other important relationships and resolving potential conflicts that may arise as a result of the merger; • consolidating and integrating duplicative facilities and operations, including back-office systems such as Hanover’s and Universal Holdings’ different enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) systems; and • addressing differences in business cultures, preserving employee morale and retaining employees, while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service and marketing, operational and financial goals. Exterran Holdings continues to dedicate substantial cost and effort to integrate the businesses. These efforts could divert Exterran Holdings’ focus and resources from other day-to-day tasks, corporate initiatives or strategic opportunities during the integration process. Any problems experienced by Exterran Holdings in integrating these businesses could negatively impact our business by disrupting our operations. Such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Exterran Holdings continues to own and operate a substantial U.S. contract compression business, competition from which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Exterran Holdings and its affiliates other than us are prohibited from competing directly or indirectly with us with respect to certain of our existing customers and certain locations where we currently conduct business, and any new contract compression customer that approaches either Exterran Holdings or ourselves until the earliest to occur of August 20, 2010, a change of control of Exterran Holdings or our general partner, or the removal or withdrawal of our general partner. Otherwise, Exterran Holdings is not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Exterran Holdings will continue to own and operate a U.S. contract operations business, including natural gas compression, that is substantially 18 larger than ours and continues to engage in international contract operations, fabrication and aftermarket service activities. Exterran Holdings is a large, established participant in the contract operations business, and has significantly greater resources, including idle compression equipment, operating personnel, fabrication operations, vendor relationships and experience, than we have, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with it with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. Exterran Holdings and its affiliates may acquire, fabricate or dispose of additional natural gas compression or other assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, competition from Exterran Holdings could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. We may be unable to grow through acquisitions of the remainder of Exterran Holdings’ U.S. contract operations business, which could limit our ability to increase our cash available for distribution. Exterran Holdings is under no obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase the remainder of its U.S. contract operations business, and its board of directors owes fiduciary duties to the stockholders of Exterran Holdings, and not our unitholders, in making any decision to offer us this opportunity. Likewise, we are not required to purchase any additional portions of such business. The consummation of any such purchases will depend upon, among other things, Exterran Holdings’ ability to continue to convert its existing compression agreements to a new form of service agreement, our reaching an agreement with Exterran Holdings regarding the terms of such purchases (which will require the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner) and our ability to finance such purchases on acceptable terms. Additionally, Exterran Holdings may be limited in its ability to consummate sales of additional portions of such business to us by the terms of its existing or future credit facilities or indentures. Additionally, our credit facility includes covenants that may limit our ability to finance acquisitions. If a sale of any additional portion of Exterran Holdings’ U.S. contract operations business would be restricted or prohibited by such covenants, we or Exterran Holdings may be required to seek waivers of such provisions or refinance those debt instruments in order to consummate a sale, neither of which may be accomplished timely, if at all. If we are unable to grow through additional acquisitions of the remainder of Exterran Holdings’ U.S. contract operations business, our ability to increase our cash available for distribution may be limited. Many of our contracts with customers have short initial terms, and we cannot be sure that such contracts for these services will be renewed after the end of the initial contractual term, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. The length of the contracts with our customers varies based on operating conditions and customer needs. In most cases, under currently prevailing contract compression rates, our initial contract terms are not long enough to enable us to fully recoup the cost of acquiring the compression equipment needed for these services. We cannot be sure that a substantial number of these customers will continue to renew their contracts, that we will be able to enter into new contracts with customers or that any renewals will be at comparable rates. The inability to renew contracts with respect to a substantial portion of our fleet would adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Our ability to manage and grow our business effectively may be adversely affected if Exterran Holdings loses management or operational personnel. All of our officers are also officers or employees of Exterran Holdings. Additionally, we do not have any of our own employees, but rather rely on Exterran Holdings’ employees to operate our business. We believe that Exterran Holdings’ ability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel will continue to be challenging and important as we grow and if energy industry market conditions continue to be positive. When general industry conditions are good, the supply of experienced operational, fabrication and field personnel, in particular, decreases as other energy and manufacturing companies’ needs for the same personnel increases. Our ability to grow and to continue our current level of service to our customers will be adversely impacted if Exterran Holdings is unable to successfully hire, train and retain these important personnel. 19 If we are unable to purchase compression equipment from Exterran Holdings or others, we may not be able to retain existing customers or compete for new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. There is substantial competition for the purchase of compression equipment, and we have a limited supply of idle units. Exterran Holdings is under no obligation to offer or sell us newly fabricated or idle compression equipment and may choose not to do so timely or at all. Further, Exterran Holdings could continue to experience substantial demand for the compression equipment it owns or fabricates for its U.S. and international contract operations services businesses as well as from third-party customers. Similarly, we may not be able to purchase newly fabricated or idle compression equipment from third-party producers or marketers of such equipment or from our competitors. If we are unable to purchase compression equipment on a timely basis to meet the demands of our customers, our existing customers may terminate their contractual relationships with us, or we may not be able to compete for business from new customers, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our operating costs per horsepower may be subject to more variability than those of our predecessor. This variability may have an adverse impact on our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Because we own a substantially smaller fleet of compressors than our predecessor, our operating costs per horsepower may be subject to more variability than those of our predecessor. This additional variability in our operating costs per horsepower may result from, among other things, the fact that repair costs associated with our compressors that experience unanticipated downtime will be allocated over our smaller fleet of compressors. The cap on our obligation to reimburse Exterran Holdings for any cost of sales that it incurs in the operation of our business contained in the Omnibus Agreement will terminate on December 31, 2008. Additionally, Exterran Holdings could condition any future sales of portions of its compression business to us on our agreement (which would require the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner) to an increase or early termination of the cap. Our cost of sales has exceeded this cap each quarter since we completed our initial public offering in October 2006. On July 9, 2007, the cap was increased from $16.95 per operating horsepower to $18.00 per operating horsepower. Any increase in our operating costs at a time when the cap is increased or no longer in effect could have an adverse impact on our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our reliance on Exterran Holdings as an operator of our assets and our limited ability to control certain costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement entered into between us and Exterran Holdings, Exterran Holdings provides us with all administrative and operational services, including without limitation all operations, marketing, maintenance and repair, periodic overhauls of compression equipment, inventory management, legal, accounting, treasury, insurance administration and claims processing, risk management, health, safety and environmental, information technology, human resources, credit, payroll, internal audit, taxes and engineering services necessary to run our business. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depends significantly upon Exterran Holdings’ satisfactory operation of our assets and performance of these services. Our reliance on Exterran Holdings as an operator of our assets and our resulting limited ability to control certain costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our inability to fund purchases of additional compression equipment could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. We may not be able to maintain or grow our asset and customer base unless we have access to sufficient capital to purchase additional compression equipment. Cash flow from our operations and availability under our revolving credit facility may not provide us with sufficient cash to fund our capital expenditure 20 requirements, including any funding requirements related to acquisitions. Additionally, pursuant to our partnership agreement, we intend to distribute all of our “available cash,” as defined in the partnership agreement, to our unitholders on a quarterly basis. Therefore, a significant portion of our cash flow from operations will be used to fund such distributions. As a result, we intend to fund our growth capital expenditures and acquisitions with external sources of capital. Failure to generate sufficient cash flow, together with the absence of alternative sources of capital, could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We indirectly depend on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to product shortages and price increases, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Some of the components used in our compressors are obtained by Exterran Holdings from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Exterran Holdings’ reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases, inferior component quality and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. Exterran Holdings does not have long-term contracts with these sources, and its partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, since any increase in component prices for compression equipment fabricated by Exterran Holdings for us will be passed on to us, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We are subject to substantial environmental regulation, and changes in these regulations could increase our costs or liabilities. We are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulatory standards, including laws and regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment, emission controls and other environmental protection and occupational health and safety concerns. Environmental laws and regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, rendering us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring land owners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, failure to comply with these environmental laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, and the issuance of injunctions delaying or prohibiting operations. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties used by us to provide contract operations services or inactive compression storage or on or under other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, remediation and monitoring requirements under federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. The modification or interpretation of existing environmental laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing environmental laws or regulations, or the adoption of new environmental laws or regulations may also negatively impact oil and natural gas exploration and production, gathering and pipeline companies, which in turn could have a negative impact on us. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities. Natural gas service operations are subject to inherent risks such as equipment defects, malfunction and failures, and natural disasters that can result in uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damages. Exterran Holdings insures our property and operations against 21 many of these risks; however, the insurance they have obtained may not be adequate to cover our claims or losses. We are not fully insured on all of our offshore assets. In addition, we are substantially self-insured for worker’s compensation, employer’s liability, property, auto liability, general liability and employee group health claims in view of the relatively high per-incident deductibles we absorb under our insurance arrangements for these risks. Further, insurance covering the risks we face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. A substantial portion of our cash flow must be used to service our debt obligations, and future interest rate increases could reduce the amount of our cash available for distribution. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding borrowings of $217.0 million under our five-year, $315 million revolving credit facility. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility will mature on October 20, 2011. Any borrowings we make under our revolving credit facility, excluding the $205 million of borrowings under the facility that are subject to fixed rate swaps, will bear interest at floating rates. Under the credit agreement, the revolving credit facility currently bears interest at LIBOR, or a defined base rate, at our option, plus an applicable margin which is determined by our total leverage ratio. At December 31, 2007 the applicable margin was 1.25% for LIBOR loans and 0.25% for base rate loans. Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing our funds available for capital investment, operations or distributions to our unitholders. Additionally, if U.S. interest rates increase, the interest rates on any of our future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. Covenants in our credit facility may adversely affect our ability to operate our business and to make distributions to our unitholders. Our credit facility includes covenants limiting our ability to make distributions, incur indebtedness, grant liens, merge, make loans, acquisitions, investments or dispositions and engage in transactions with affiliates. Furthermore, our credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and tests. Additionally, our obligations under the revolving credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets and all assets of our subsidiaries. These covenants may restrict our ability to expand or to pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with certain provisions of the credit facility may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in business conditions or results of operations, adverse regulatory developments or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of those covenants could result in a default under our credit facility, which could cause those debt obligations to become due and payable. If any of our indebtedness were to be accelerated, we may not be able to repay or refinance it. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Our Common Units Exterran Holdings controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Exterran Holdings has conflicts of interest, which may permit it to favor its own interests to our unitholders’ detriment. Exterran Holdings owns and controls our general partner. Some of our general partner’s directors are directors of Exterran Holdings and all of our executive officers are officers of Exterran Holdings. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between Exterran Holdings and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Exterran Holdings to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Exterran Holdings’ directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make 22 these decisions in the best interests of the owners of Exterran Holdings, which may be contrary to our interests; • our general partner controls the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and Exterran Holdings, on the other hand, including provisions governing administrative services, acquisitions and transfers of compression equipment and non-competition provisions; • our general partner controls whether we agree to acquire additional contract operations customers or assets from Exterran Holdings that are offered to us by Exterran Holdings and the terms of such acquisitions; • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Exterran Holdings and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest; • other than as provided in our Omnibus Agreement with Exterran Holdings, Exterran Holdings and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us. Exterran Holdings will continue to engage in U.S. and international contract operations services as well as third-party sales coupled with aftermarket service contracts; • Exterran Holdings will compete with us with respect to any future acquisition opportunities; • Exterran Holdings’ U.S. and international contract compression services businesses and its third-party equipment customers will compete with us for newly fabricated and idle compression equipment and Exterran Holdings is under no obligation to offer equipment to us for purchase or use; • all of the officers and employees of Exterran Holdings who provide services to us also will devote significant time to the business of Exterran Holdings, and will be compensated by Exterran Holdings for the services rendered to it; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us and Exterran Holdings determines the allocation of shared overhead expenses; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. 23 Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which are determined by our general partner, are substantial and reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement we entered into with Exterran Holdings, our general partner, and others, Exterran Holdings receives reimbursement for the payment of operating expenses related to our operations and for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Payments for these services are substantial and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units and subordinated units and restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. 24 Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its general partner’s directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders do not elect our general partner or its general partner’s board of directors, and have no right to elect our general partner or its general partner’s board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by its sole member, a subsidiary of Exterran Holdings. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot currently remove our general partner without its consent. The unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner. As of December 31, 2007, our general partner and its affiliates owned 50% of our aggregate outstanding common and subordinated units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of the general partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units to common units. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner, which is indirectly wholly-owned by Exterran Holdings, may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger, or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Exterran Holdings, the owner of our general partner, from transferring all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner’s general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute our unitholders’ existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; 25 • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units, other than our general partner and its affiliates, including Exterran Holdings. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, including Exterran Holdings, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions. Affiliates of our general partner may sell common or subordinated units in the public or private markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. At December 31, 2007, Exterran Holdings and its affiliates held 6,325,000 subordinated units and 2,014,395 common units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period and some or all may convert earlier. The sale of these subordinated units or common units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. At December 31, 2007, our general partner and its affiliates owned 50% of our aggregate outstanding common and subordinated units, including all of our subordinated units. Unitholder liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if they were a general partner if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • a unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. 26 Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Our common units have a limited trading history and a limited trading volume compared to other units representing limited partner interests. Our common units are traded publicly on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “EXLP.” However, our common units have a limited trading history and daily trading volumes for our common units are, and may continue to be, relatively small compared to many other units representing limited partner interests quoted on the NASDAQ. The price of our common units may, therefore, be volatile. The market price of our common units may also be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • our quarterly distributions; • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies or partnerships in our industry; • changes in commodity prices; • changes in demand for natural gas in the U.S.; • loss of a large customer; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • general economic conditions; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts; • future sales of our common units; and • the other factors described in these “Risk Factors.” Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity or incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity or incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes. 27 Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we will be treated as a corporation, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. For example, at the federal level, legislation has been proposed that would eliminate partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded partnerships. Although such legislation would not apply to us as currently proposed, it could be amended prior to enactment in a manner that does apply to us. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to you. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Specifically, beginning in 2008, we are required to pay Texas franchise tax (also known as the “margin tax”) at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our total revenue apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of such a tax on us by Texas and, if applicable, by any other state, will reduce the cash available for distribution to you. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to additional amounts of entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely affected, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of 28 any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner. You will be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income, which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you receive no cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such common units at a price greater than your tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, and, if successful, we would be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the 29 date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations, and, accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to successfully challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that could result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may successfully challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders receiving two Schedule K-1’s) for one fiscal year. Our termination could also result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. As a result of the merger between Universal Compression Holdings and Hanover, there is ongoing internal restructuring to streamline the business and simplify the financial and tax reporting of Exterran Holdings. We expect that this restructuring will result in the exchange of more than 50% of the total interests in our capital and profits within the next twelve months, and, as such, will result in a technical termination of us for federal 30 income tax purposes. This termination will not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or otherwise affect the nature or extent of our “qualifying income” for federal income tax purposes. The termination will, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and a deferral of the depreciation deductions that are allowable in computing the taxable income (loss) of our unitholders. At this time we are unable to predict or calculate the effect of any such technical termination on our unitholders. As a result of investing in our common units, you may become subject to foreign, state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. In addition to federal income taxes, you may be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own or acquire property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We conduct business and/or own assets in the states of Alabama, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, New York, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wyoming. Each of these states, other than Texas and Wyoming, currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals. A majority of these states impose an income tax on corporations and other entities that may be unitholders. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may conduct business or own assets in additional states that impose a personal income tax or that impose entity level taxes to which certain unitholders could be subject. It is your responsibility to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns applicable to you in your particular circumstances. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the foreign, state or local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 