Item 1A. Risk Factors As described in Part I (“Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”), this report contains forward-looking statements regarding us, our business and our industry. The risk factors described below, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be negatively impacted. Risks Related to Our Business We have been in the past dependent on our cost caps from Exterran Holdings to generate sufficient cash from operating surplus to enable us to make cash distributions approximating our current distribution rate. These cost caps were in effect through December 31, 2014; however, effective January 1, 2015, the cost caps provisions of the Omnibus Agreement terminated. Their termination may reduce the amount of cash flow available to unitholders in the future and, accordingly, could impair our ability to maintain or increase our distributions. Under the Omnibus Agreement, our obligation to reimburse Exterran Holdings for any cost of sales that it incurred in the operation of our business and any cash SG&A expense allocated to us was capped (after taking into account any such costs we incurred and paid directly) through December 31, 2014. Cost of sales was capped at $21.75 per operating horsepower per quarter through December 31, 2013 and $22.50 per operating horsepower per quarter from January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014. SG&A costs were capped at $12.5 million per quarter from April 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013, $15.0 million per quarter from January 1, 2014 through April 9, 2014 and $17.7 million per quarter from April 10, 2014 through December 31, 2014. Our cost of sales exceeded the cap provided in the Omnibus Agreement by $2.5 million, $12.4 million and $16.6 million during 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Our SG&A expenses exceeded the cap provided in the Omnibus Agreement by $11.4 million, $12.8 million and $8.2 million during 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Accordingly, our EBITDA, as further adjusted, and our distributable cash flow (please see Part II, Item 6 (“Selected Financial Data — Non-GAAP Financial Measures”) of this report for a discussion of EBITDA, as further adjusted, and distributable cash flow) would have been approximately $13.9 million, $25.2 million and $24.8 million lower during 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, without the benefit of the cost caps. As a result, without the benefit of the cost caps, our distributable cash flow coverage (distributable cash flow for the period divided by distributions declared to all unitholders for the period, including incentive distribution rights) would have been 1.20x, 1.13x and 1.02x during 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, rather than the actual distributable cash flow coverage (which includes the benefit of cost caps) of 1.30x, 1.36x and 1.29x during 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. These cost caps were in effect through December 31, 2014; however, effective January 1, 2015, the cost caps provisions of the Omnibus Agreement terminated. Their termination could reduce the amount of cash flow available to unitholders in the future and, accordingly, could impair our ability to maintain or increase our distributions. Continued low oil and natural gas prices in the U.S. could decrease demand for our natural gas compression services and, as a result, adversely affect our business and decrease our revenue and cash available for distribution. Our revenue, earnings and financial position are affected by, among other things, market conditions that impact demand and pricing for natural gas compression services. Oil and natural gas prices and the level of drilling and exploration activity can be volatile. For example, oil and natural gas exploration and development activity and the number of well completions typically decline when there is a sustained reduction in oil or natural gas prices or significant instability in energy markets. Even the perception of longer-term lower oil or natural gas prices by oil and natural gas exploration, development and production companies can result in their decision to cancel, reduce or postpone major expenditures or to reduce or shut in well production. In April 2012, natural gas prices in the U.S. fell to their lowest levels in more than a decade with the Henry Hub spot price at around $2.00 per MMBtu. As a result, certain companies reduced their natural gas drilling and production activities, particularly in more mature and predominantly dry gas areas, where we provide a significant amount of contract operations services, which led to a decline in our business in these areas during 2012. Since then, natural gas prices in the U.S. improved somewhat and generally were near or above $4.00 per MMBtu for much of 2014, but natural gas prices in 2014 continued to cause certain companies to reduce their natural gas drilling and production activities in more mature and predominantly dry gas areas in the U.S., which led to a continued decline in our contract operations business in these areas in 2014. Global oil prices have fallen significantly recently. West Texas Intermediate crude oil spot prices as of December 31, 2014 were approximately 41% and 46% lower than prices at September 30, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively, which is expected to lead to reduced drilling of oil wells in 2015. Because we provide a significant amount of contract operations services related to the production of associated gas from oil wells and a significant amount of contract operations services related to the use of gas lift to enhance production of oil from oil wells, our operations and our levels of operating horsepower are also impacted by crude oil drilling and production activity. In addition, the Henry Hub spot price for natural gas was approximately $3.10 per MMBtu at December 31, 2014, which was approximately 24% and 27% lower than prices at September 30, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively, and the 16 Table of Contents U.S. natural gas liquid composite price was approximately $7.84 per MMBtu for the month of November 2014, which was approximately 20% and 27% lower than prices for the months of September 2014 and December 2013, respectively, which is expected to lead to reduced drilling of gas wells in 2015. If oil or natural gas production growth moderates or declines in the U.S., the level of production activity and the demand for our contract operations services could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. A reduction in demand for our services could also force us to reduce our pricing substantially, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Moreover, a reduction in demand for our services could result in our customers seeking to preserve capital by canceling month-to-month contracts, determining not to enter into new contract operations service contracts, or canceling or delaying orders for our contract operations services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Additionally, compression services for unconventional natural gas sources constitute an increasing percentage of our business. Some of these unconventional sources are less economic to produce in lower natural gas price environments. Due to our significant relationship with Exterran Holdings, adverse developments concerning Exterran Holdings could adversely affect us, even if we have not suffered any similar developments. Through its subsidiaries, Exterran Holdings owns all of our general partner interests, including all of the incentive distribution rights, and a significant amount of our limited partner interests. Our access to Exterran Holdings’ personnel, fabrication operations, logistical capabilities, geographic scope and operational efficiencies allows us to provide a full complement of contract operations services. In addition, we benefit from a number of arrangements in the Omnibus Agreement between us and Exterran Holdings (please see Note 3 to the Financial Statements for further discussion of the Omnibus Agreement). A material adverse effect upon Exterran Holding’s assets, liabilities, financial condition, business or operations could impact Exterran Holdings’ ability to continue to provide these benefits to us. As a result, we could experience a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders, even if we have not suffered any similar developments. Following the closing of the Spinoff transaction, certain of Exterran Holdings’ fabrication operations, logistical capabilities, geographic scope and operational efficiencies will be contributed to Spinco. Certain key personnel of Exterran Holdings may become employees of Spinco. Exterran Holdings’ loss of these capabilities and key personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. As we continue to acquire additional compression equipment from Exterran Holdings we expect that our maintenance capital expenditures will increase, which could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. Exterran Holdings manages its and our respective U.S. fleets as one pool of compression equipment from which we can each readily fulfill our respective customers’ service needs. When we or Exterran Holdings are advised of a contract operations services opportunity, Exterran Holdings reviews both our and its fleet for an available and appropriate compressor unit. Given that the majority of the idle compression equipment has been and is currently held by Exterran Holdings, much of the idle compression equipment required for these contract operations services opportunities has been held by Exterran Holdings. Under the Omnibus Agreement, the owner of the equipment being transferred is required to pay the costs associated with making the idle equipment suitable for the proposed customer and then has generally leased the equipment to the recipient of the equipment or exchanged the equipment for other equipment of the recipient. Since Exterran Holdings has owned the majority of such equipment, Exterran Holdings has generally had to bear a larger portion of the maintenance capital expenditures associated with making transferred equipment ready for service. For equipment that is then leased to the recipient, the maintenance capital cost is a component of the lease rate that is paid under the lease. As we acquire more compression equipment, we expect that more of our equipment will be available to satisfy our or Exterran Holdings’ customer requirements. As a result, we expect that our maintenance capital expenditures will increase, which could reduce our cash available for distribution. We have a substantial amount of debt that could limit our ability to fund future growth and operations and increase our exposure to risk during adverse economic conditions. At December 31, 2014, we had approximately $1.3 billion in outstanding debt obligations. Many factors, including factors beyond our control, may affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. These factors include those discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors and those listed in the Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements section included in Part I of this report. Our substantial debt and associated commitments could have important adverse consequences. For example, these commitments could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our contractual obligations; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 17 Table of Contents · limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate requirements; · increase our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations because the interest payments on a portion of our debt are based upon variable interest rates and a portion can adjust based upon our credit statistics; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or less restrictive covenants in such debt; and · limit our ability to refinance our debt in the future or borrow additional funds. A substantial portion of our cash flow must be used to service our debt obligations, and future interest rate increases could reduce the amount of our cash available for distribution. At December 31, 2014, we had $1.3 billion in outstanding debt obligations, consisting of $344.8 million net of the unamortized discount outstanding under the 2014 Notes, $345.5 million net of the unamortized discount outstanding under our 6% senior notes due April 2021 (the “2013 Notes”), $460.0 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility and $150.0 million outstanding under our term loan. The senior secured credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”), which consists of a revolving credit facility and term loan facility, requires that we make mandatory prepayments of the term loan with the net cash proceeds of certain asset transfers. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facility bear interest at floating rates. We have effectively fixed a portion of the floating rate debt through the use of interest rate swaps; however, changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing our funds available for capital investment, operations or distributions to our unitholders. As of December 31, 2014, after taking into consideration interest rate swaps, we had $210.0 million of outstanding indebtedness that was effectively subject to floating interest rates. A 1% increase in the effective interest rate on our outstanding debt subject to floating interest rates at December 31, 2014 would result in an annual increase in our interest expense of approximately $2.1 million. Any such increase in our interest expense could reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution. Covenants in our Credit Agreement may impair our ability to operate our business. The Credit Agreement contains various covenants with which we must comply, including, but not limited to, restrictions on the use of proceeds from borrowings and limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, engage in transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate, sell assets, make certain investments and acquisitions, make loans, grant liens, repurchase equity and pay dividends and distributions. The Credit Agreement also contains various covenants requiring mandatory prepayments from the net cash proceeds of certain asset transfers. We must maintain various consolidated financial ratios, including a ratio of EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement) to Total Interest Expense (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of not less than 2.75 to 1.0, a ratio of Total Debt (as defined in the Credit Agreement) to EBITDA of not greater than 5.25 to 1.0 (subject to a temporary increase to 5.5 to 1.0 for any quarter during which an acquisition meeting certain thresholds is completed and for the following two quarters after the acquisition closes) and a ratio of Senior Secured Debt (as defined in the Credit Agreement) to EBITDA of not greater than 4.0 to 1.0. Because the August 2014 MidCon Acquisition closed during the third quarter of 2014, our Total Debt to EBITDA ratio threshold was temporarily increased to 5.5 to 1.0 during the quarter ended September 30, 2014 and will continue at that level through March 31, 2015, reverting to 5.25 to 1.0 for the quarter ending June 30, 2015 and subsequent quarters. As of December 31, 2014, we maintained a 5.2 to 1.0 EBITDA to Total Interest Expense ratio, a 4.3 to 1.0. Total Debt to EBITDA ratio and a 2.0 to 1.0 Senior Secured Debt to EBITDA ratio. A material adverse effect on our assets, liabilities, financial condition, business or operations that, taken as a whole, impacts our ability to perform our obligations under the Credit Agreement, could lead to a default under that agreement. The breach of any of our covenants could result in a default under our Credit Agreement which could cause our indebtedness under our Credit Agreement to become due and payable. A default under one of our debt agreements would trigger cross-default provisions under our other debt agreements, which would accelerate our obligation to repay our indebtedness under those agreements. If the repayment obligations on any of our indebtedness were to be so accelerated, we may not be able to repay the debt or refinance the debt on acceptable terms, and our financial position would be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2014, we are in compliance with all financial covenants under our Credit Agreement. 18 Table of Contents We are engaged in ongoing litigation regarding our qualification as a Heavy Equipment Dealer, the qualification of our natural gas compressors as Heavy Equipment and the resulting appraisal of our natural gas compressors for ad valorem tax purposes under revised Texas statutes. If this litigation is resolved against us, or if in the future we do not qualify as a Heavy Equipment Dealer or our compressors do not qualify as Heavy Equipment because of new or revised Texas statutes, we will incur additional taxes which would adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. In 2011, the Texas Legislature enacted changes related to the appraisal of natural gas compressors for ad valorem tax purposes by expanding the definitions of “Heavy Equipment Dealer” and “Heavy Equipment” effective from the beginning of 2012 (the “Heavy Equipment Statutes”). Under the revised statutes, we believe we are a Heavy Equipment Dealer, that our natural gas compressors are Heavy Equipment and that we, therefore, are required to file our ad valorem tax renditions under this new methodology. A large number of appraisal review boards denied our position, and we filed petitions for review in the appropriate district courts. See Part I, Item 3 (“Legal Proceedings”) and Note 15 (“Commitments and Contingencies”) to the Financial Statements included in this report for additional information regarding legal proceedings to which we are a party, including ongoing litigation regarding our qualification as a heavy equipment dealer, the qualification of our natural gas compressors as heavy equipment and the resulting appraisal of our natural gas compressors for ad valorem tax purposes under revised Texas statutes. As a result of the new methodology, our ad valorem tax expense (which is reflected in our consolidated statements of operations as a component of cost of sales (excluding depreciation and amortization expense)) includes a benefit of $10.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2014. Since the change in methodology became effective in 2012, we have recorded an aggregate benefit of $20.7 million as of December 31, 2014, of which approximately $4.6 million has been agreed to by a number of appraisal review boards and county appraisal districts and $16.1 million has been disputed and is currently in litigation. Recognizing the similarity of the issues and that these cases will ultimately be resolved by the Texas appellate courts, we have reached, or intend to reach, agreements with some of the appraisal districts to stay or abate certain of these pending district court cases. If we are unsuccessful in our litigation with the appraisal districts, we would be required to pay ad valorem taxes up to the aggregate benefit we have recorded, and the additional ad valorem tax payments may also be subject to substantial penalties and interest. Also, if we are unsuccessful in our litigation with the appraisal districts, or if legislation is enacted in Texas that repeals or alters the Heavy Equipment Statutes such that in the future we do not qualify as a Heavy Equipment Dealer or our compressors do not qualify as Heavy Equipment, then we would likely be required to pay these ad valorem taxes under the old methodology going forward, which would increase our quarterly cost of sales expense up to approximately the amount of our then most recent quarterly benefit recorded, and as a result impact our future results of operations and cash flows, including our cash available for distribution and accordingly, could impair our ability to maintain or increase our distributions. Our inability to fund purchases of additional compression equipment could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. We may not be able to maintain or grow our asset and customer base unless we have access to sufficient capital to purchase additional compression equipment. Cash flow from our operations and availability under our senior secured credit facility may not provide us with sufficient cash to fund our capital expenditure requirements, including any funding requirements related to acquisitions. Additionally, pursuant to our partnership agreement, we intend to distribute all of our “available cash,” as defined in our partnership agreement, to our unitholders on a quarterly basis. Therefore, a significant portion of our cash flow from operations will be used to fund such distributions. As a result, we intend to fund our growth capital expenditures and acquisitions, including future acquisitions of compression services contracts and equipment from Exterran Holdings, with external sources of capital including additional borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and/or public or private offerings of equity or debt. Our ability to grow our asset and customer base could be impacted by any limits on our ability to access equity and debt capital. We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to make cash distributions to holders of our common units at our current distribution rate. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at our current distribution rate. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the risks described in this section. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: · the level of capital expenditures we make; · the cost of acquisitions; · our debt service requirements and other liabilities; 19 Table of Contents · fluctuations in our working capital needs; · our ability to refinance our debt in the future or borrow funds and access capital markets; · restrictions contained in our debt agreements; and · the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. Failure to generate sufficient cash flow, together with the absence of alternative sources of capital, could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The erosion of the financial condition of our customers could adversely affect our business. Many of our customers finance their exploration and development activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. During times when the oil or natural gas markets weaken, our customers are more likely to experience a downturn in their financial condition. A reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing could result in a reduction in our customers’ spending for our services. For example, our customers could seek to preserve capital by canceling month-to-month contracts or determining not to enter into any new natural gas compression service contracts, thereby reducing demand for our services. Reduced demand for our services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, in the event of the financial failure of a customer, we could experience a loss on all or a portion of our outstanding accounts receivable associated with that customer. Our agreement not to compete with Exterran Holdings could limit our ability to grow. We have entered into an Omnibus Agreement with Exterran Holdings and several of its subsidiaries. The Omnibus Agreement includes certain agreements not to compete between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and Exterran Holdings and its affiliates, on the other hand. This agreement not to compete with Exterran Holdings could limit our ability to grow. For further discussion of the Omnibus Agreement, please see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. We face significant competitive pressures that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance. Our business is highly competitive and there are low barriers to entry. We experience competition from companies that may be able to adapt more quickly to technological changes within our industry and changes in economic and market conditions, more readily take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive services or substantially decrease the prices at which they offer their services, we may not be able to compete effectively. In addition, we could face significant competition from new entrants into our industry. Some of our existing competitors or new entrants may expand or fabricate new compressor units that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers may purchase and operate their own compressor fleets in lieu of using our natural gas compression services. Any of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Threats of cyber attacks or terrorism could affect our business. We may be threatened by problems such as cyber attacks, computer viruses or terrorism that may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Our industry requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite our implementation of security measures, our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism and other causes. If our information technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we might be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, our assets may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our ability to service our customers. We may be required by our regulators or by the future terrorist threat environment to make investments in security that we cannot currently predict. The implementation of security guidelines and measures and maintenance of insurance, to the extent available, addressing such activities could increase costs. These types of events could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, these types of events could require significant management attention and resources, and could adversely affect our reputation among customers and the public. 20 Table of Contents We depend on Williams Partners, L.P. (“Williams”) for a significant portion of our revenue. The loss of our business with Williams or the inability or failure of Williams to meet its payment obligations may adversely affect our financial results. For the year ended December 31, 2013, no customer individually accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue. In connection with the April 2014 MidCon Acquisition, we and Access Midstream Partners, L.P. (“Access”) entered into a seven-year contract operations services agreement under which we provided contract compression services in 2014 to Access in regions including the Permian, Eagle Ford, Barnett, Anadarko, Mississippi Lime, Granite Wash, Woodford, Haynesville and Niobrara Basins. During the year ended December 31, 2014, Access accounted for approximately 12% of our consolidated revenue. Access merged with Williams in February 2015 and, when combined, Access and Williams would have accounted for approximately 15% of our consolidated revenue during the year ended December 31, 2014. The loss of our business with Williams, unless offset by additional contract compression services revenue from other customers, or the inability or failure of Williams to meet their payment obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We may not be able to grow our cash flows if we do not expand our business, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase distributions to our unitholders. Our ability to grow the per unit distribution on our units is dependent in part upon our ability to expand our business. Our future growth will depend upon a number of factors, some of which we cannot control. These factors include our ability to: · acquire additional U.S. contract operations services business from Exterran Holdings; · consummate accretive acquisitions; · enter into contracts for new services with our existing customers or new customers; and · obtain required financing for our existing and new operations. A deficiency in any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve growth in the level of our cash flows or realize benefits from acquisitions. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and our ability to maintain or increase distributions to our unitholders could be limited. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make accretive acquisitions. If we are unable to make accretive acquisitions either because we are: (i) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (ii) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or (iii) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to maintain or increase distributions could be limited. Furthermore, even if we make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: · an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; · the assumption of unknown liabilities; · limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; · mistaken assumptions about the cash generated or anticipated to be generated by the business acquired or the overall costs of equity or debt; · the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · unforeseen operating difficulties; and · customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our future funds and other resources. In addition, competition from other buyers could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay. 21 Table of Contents Exterran Holdings continues to own and operate a substantial U.S. contract compression business, competition from which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Exterran Holdings and its affiliates, other than us, are prohibited from competing directly or indirectly with us with respect to certain of our existing customers and certain locations where we currently conduct business, and with respect to any new contract compression services customer that approaches either Exterran Holdings or ourselves, until the earlier of December 31, 2015, a change of control of Exterran Holdings or our general partner, or the removal or withdrawal of our general partner. Otherwise, Exterran Holdings is not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Exterran Holdings continues to own and operate a U.S. contract operations business, including natural gas compression, and continues to engage in international contract operations, fabrication and aftermarket service activities. Exterran Holdings is a large, established participant in the contract operations business, and has significantly greater resources, including idle compression equipment, operating personnel, fabrication operations, vendor relationships and experience, than we have, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with it with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. Exterran Holdings and its affiliates may acquire, fabricate or dispose of additional natural gas compression or other assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, competition from Exterran Holdings could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. We may be unable to grow through acquisitions of Exterran Holdings’ U.S. contract operations business, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase distributions to our unitholders. Exterran Holdings is under no obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of its U.S. contract operations business, and its board of directors owes fiduciary duties to the stockholders of Exterran Holdings, and not our unitholders, in making any decision to offer us this opportunity. Likewise, we are not required to purchase any additional portions of such business. The consummation of any such purchases will depend upon, among other things, our ability to reach an agreement with Exterran Holdings regarding the terms of such purchases (which will require the approval of the conflicts committee of our board of directors) and our ability to finance such purchases on acceptable terms. Additionally, Exterran Holdings may be limited in its ability to consummate sales of additional portions of such business to us by the terms of its existing or future credit facilities or indentures. Furthermore, our senior secured credit facility includes covenants that may limit our ability to finance acquisitions. If a sale of any additional portion of Exterran Holdings’ U.S. contract operations business would be restricted or prohibited by such covenants, we or Exterran Holdings may be required to seek waivers of such provisions or refinance those debt instruments in order to consummate a sale, neither of which may be accomplished timely, if at all. If we are unable to grow through additional acquisitions of Exterran Holdings’ U.S. contract operations business, our ability to maintain or increase distributions to our unitholders may be limited. Many of our compression services contracts with customers have short initial terms, and after the initial term are cancelable on short notice, and we cannot be sure that such contracts will be extended or renewed after the end of the initial contractual term. Any such nonrenewals, or renewals at reduced rates, or the loss of contracts with any significant customer, could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. The length of our compression services contracts with customers varies based on operating conditions and customer needs. Our initial contract terms are not long enough to enable us to recoup the cost of acquiring the equipment we use to provide compression services, and these contracts are typically cancelable on short notice after the initial term. We cannot be sure that a substantial number of these contracts will be extended or renewed by our customers or that any of our customers will continue to contract with us. The inability to negotiate extensions or renew a substantial portion of our compression services contracts, the renewal of such contracts at reduced rates, the inability to contract for additional services with our customers or the loss of all or a significant portion of our services contracts with any significant customer could lead to a reduction in revenue and net income and could require us to record additional asset impairments. This could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our ability to manage and grow our business effectively may be adversely affected if Exterran Holdings loses management or operational personnel. Most of our officers are also officers or employees of Exterran Holdings. Additionally, we do not have any of our own employees, but rather rely on Exterran Holdings’ employees to operate our business. We believe that Exterran Holdings’ ability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel will continue to be challenging and important as we grow. When general industry conditions are good, the supply of experienced operational, fabrication and field personnel, in particular, decreases as other energy and manufacturing companies’ needs for the same personnel increase. Our ability to grow and to continue our current level of service to our customers will be adversely impacted if Exterran Holdings is unable to successfully hire, train and retain these important personnel. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to purchase compression equipment from Exterran Holdings or others, we may not be able to retain existing customers or compete for new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Exterran Holdings is under no obligation to offer or sell to us newly-fabricated or idle compression equipment and may choose not to do so timely or at all. We may not be able to purchase newly-fabricated or idle compression equipment from third-party producers or marketers of such equipment or from our competitors. If we are unable to purchase compression equipment on a timely basis to meet the demands of our customers, our existing customers may terminate their contractual relationships with us, or we may not be able to compete for business from new or existing customers, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our reliance on Exterran Holdings as an operator of our assets and our limited ability to control certain costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, Exterran Holdings provides us with all administrative and operational services, including without limitation all operations, marketing, maintenance and repair, periodic overhauls of compression equipment, inventory management, legal, accounting, treasury, insurance administration and claims processing, risk management, health, safety and environmental, information technology, human resources, credit, payroll, internal audit, taxes and engineering services necessary to run our business. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depends significantly upon Exterran Holdings’ satisfactory operation of our assets and performance of these services. Our reliance on Exterran Holdings as an operator of our assets and our resulting limited ability to control certain costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We indirectly depend on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to product shortages and price increases, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Some of the components used in our compressors are obtained by Exterran Holdings from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Exterran Holdings’ reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases, inferior component quality and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. Exterran Holdings does not have long-term contracts with some of these sources, and its partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, since any increase in component prices for compression equipment fabricated by Exterran Holdings for us will be passed on to us, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could have a negative impact on our results of operations. From time to time, we are subject to various claims, litigation and other proceedings that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring material future cash payments or charges, which could impair our financial condition or results of operations. The size, nature and complexity of our business make us susceptible to various claims, both in litigation and binding arbitration proceedings. We are currently, and may in the future become, subject to various claims, which, if not resolved within amounts we have accrued, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Similarly, any claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. See Part I, Item 3 (“Legal Proceedings”) and also Note 15 (“Commitments and Contingencies”) to the Financial Statements included in this report for additional information regarding certain legal proceedings to which we are a party, including ongoing litigation regarding our qualification as a heavy equipment dealer, the qualification of our natural gas compressors as heavy equipment and the resulting appraisal of our natural gas compressors for ad valorem tax purposes under revised Texas statutes. U.S. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells and adversely affect demand for our contract operations services. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand or alternative proppant and chemicals under pressure into target geological formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. Recently, there has been increased public concern regarding an alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to adversely affect drinking water supplies, and proposals have been made to enact separate U.S. federal, state and local legislation that would increase the regulatory burden imposed on hydraulic fracturing. 23 Table of Contents At the U.S. federal level, the EPA has asserted U.S. federal regulatory authority pursuant to the U.S. federal Safe Drinking Water Act (the “SDWA”) over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published permitting guidance in February 2013 addressing the performance of such activities. Also, in May 2014, the EPA issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to collect data on chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing operations under Section 8 of the Toxic Substances Control Act. To date, no other action has been taken. Further, the EPA has announced its intention to propose regulations under the CWA by sometime in 2015 governing wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and certain other natural gas operations. In addition, the EPA is conducting a study of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities on water resources and a draft final report is anticipated sometime in 2015 for peer review and public comment. The results of this study or similar governmental review could spur initiatives to regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or otherwise. Also, the U.S. Department of the Interior published a revised proposed rule on May 16, 2013, that would update exiting regulation of hydraulic fracturing activities on U.S. federal lands, including requirements for chemical disclosure, wellbore integrity and handling of flowback water. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. For example in May 2013, the Texas Railroad Commission adopted new rules governing well casing, cementing and other standards for ensuring that hydraulic fracturing operations do not contaminate nearby water resources. Local governments may also seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. If new or more stringent U.S. federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where our natural gas exploration and production customers operate, those customers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. Any such restrictions could reduce demand for our contract operations services, and as a result could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. New regulations, proposed regulations and proposed modifications to existing regulations under the CAA, if implemented, could result in increased compliance costs. On August 20, 2010, the EPA published new regulations under the CAA to control emissions of hazardous air pollutants from existing stationary reciprocal internal combustion engines. The rule would have required us to undertake certain expenditures and activities, including purchasing and installing emissions control equipment, such as oxidation catalysts or non-selective catalytic reduction equipment, on a portion of our engines located at certain sources of hazardous air pollutants and all our engines over a certain size regardless of location, following prescribed maintenance practices for engines (which are consistent with our existing practices), and implementing additional emissions testing and monitoring. Following legal challenges to the 2010 rule, the EPA reconsidered the rule and published revisions to the rule on January 30, 2013. The revised rule requires management practices for all covered engines but requires catalyst installation only on larger equipment at sites that are not deemed to be “remote.” Compliance with the final rule was required by October 2013. On May 21, 2012, the EPA issued new ozone nonattainment designations for all areas except Chicago, in relation to the 2008 NAAQS for ozone. Among other things, these new designations add Wise County, Texas to the DFW nonattainment area. This new designation will require Texas to modify its SIP to include a plan for Wise County to come into compliance with the ozone NAAQS. This modification process started in January 2014, and the State of Texas anticipates having new regulations in place by mid-2015. If Texas implements the same control requirements in Wise County that are already in place in the other counties in the DFW nonattainment area, we could be required to modify or remove and replace a significant amount of equipment we currently utilize in Wise County. However, at this point we cannot predict what Texas’ new SIP will require or what equipment will still be operating in Wise County when it comes into effect and, as a result, we cannot currently accurately predict the impact or cost to comply. On August 16, 2012, the EPA published final rules that establish new air emission controls for natural gas and natural gas liquids production, processing and transportation activities, including New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds, and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with production and processing activities. Among other things, the rules establish specific requirements regarding emissions from compressors and controllers at natural gas gathering and boosting stations and processing plants together with dehydrators and storage tanks at natural gas processing plants, compressor stations and gathering and boosting stations. In addition, the rules establish new requirements for leak detection and repair of leaks at natural gas processing plants that exceed 500 parts per million in concentration. In addition, in January 2011, the TCEQ finalized revisions to certain air permit programs that significantly increase air emissions-related requirements for new and certain existing oil and gas production and gathering sites in the Barnett Shale production area. The final rule established new emissions standards for engines, which could impact the operation of specific categories of engines by 24 Table of Contents requiring the use of alternative engines, compressor packages or the installation of aftermarket emissions control equipment. The rule became effective for the Barnett Shale production area in April 2011, and the lower emissions standards will become applicable between 2020 and 2030 depending on the type of engine and the permitting requirements. A number of other states where our engines are operated have adopted or are considering adopting additional regulations that could impose new air permitting or pollution control requirements for engines, some of which could entail material costs to comply. At this point, however, we cannot predict whether any such rules would require us to incur material costs. These new regulations and proposals, when finalized, and any other new regulations requiring the installation of more sophisticated pollution control equipment or the adoption of other environmental protection measures, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations; failure to comply with these regulations may result in administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures and changes in these regulations could increase our costs or liabilities. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations, including relating to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment and taxation. Many of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including assessment of monetary penalties, imposition of remedial requirements and issuance of injunctions as to future compliance. From time to time, as part of our operations, including newly acquired operations, we may be subject to compliance audits by regulatory authorities in the various states in which we operate. Environmental laws and regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, which may render us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring land owners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could negatively impact our financial condition, profitability and results of operations. Moreover, failure to comply with these environmental laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties and the issuance of injunctions delaying or prohibiting operations. We may need to apply for or amend facility permits or licenses from time to time with respect to storm water or wastewater discharges, waste handling, or air emissions relating to manufacturing activities or equipment operations, which subjects us to new or revised permitting conditions that may be onerous or costly to comply with. In addition, certain of our customer service arrangements may require us to operate, on behalf of a specific customer, petroleum storage units such as underground tanks or pipelines and other regulated units, all of which may impose additional compliance and permitting obligations. We conduct operations at numerous facilities in a wide variety of locations across the continental U.S. The operations at many of these facilities require U.S. federal, state or local environmental permits or other authorizations. Additionally, natural gas compressors at many of our customers’ facilities require individual air permits or general authorizations to operate under various air regulatory programs established by rule or regulation. These permits and authorizations frequently contain numerous compliance requirements, including monitoring and reporting obligations and operational restrictions, such as emission limits. Given the large number of facilities in which we operate, and the numerous environmental permits and other authorizations that are applicable to our operations, we may occasionally identify or be notified of technical violations of certain requirements existing in various permits or other authorizations. Occasionally, we have been assessed penalties for our non-compliance, and we could be subject to such penalties in the future. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties used by us to provide contract operations services or inactive compression storage or on or under other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, remediation and monitoring requirements under U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. The modification or interpretation of existing environmental laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing environmental laws or regulations, or the adoption of new environmental laws or regulations may also negatively impact oil and natural gas exploration and production, gathering and pipeline companies, including our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on us. 25 Table of Contents Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased compliance costs. The U.S. Congress has previously considered legislation to restrict or regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane. One bill, passed by the House of Representatives in 2009, but never adopted by the full Congress, would have required greenhouse gas emissions reductions by covered sources of as much as 17% from 2005 levels by 2020 and by as much as 83% by 2050. It presently appears unlikely that comprehensive climate legislation will be passed by either house of Congress in the near future, although energy legislation and other initiatives continue to be proposed that may be relevant to greenhouse gas emissions issues. In addition, almost half of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun to address greenhouse gas emissions, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Although most of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that smaller sources such as our gas-fired compressors could become subject to greenhouse gas-related regulation. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to control emissions or to purchase and surrender allowances for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations. Independent of Congress, the EPA has been pursuing regulations controlling greenhouse gas emissions under its existing CAA authority. The EPA has adopted rules requiring many facilities, including petroleum and natural gas systems, to inventory and report their greenhouse gas emissions. These rules triggered reporting obligations for some sites we operated in 2014. In addition, the EPA in June 2010 published a final rule providing for the tailored applicability of air permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions. The EPA reported that the rulemaking was necessary because without it certain permitting requirements would apply as of January 2011 at an emissions level that would have greatly increased the number of required permits and, among other things, imposed undue costs on small sources and overwhelmed the resources of permitting authorities. In the rule, the EPA established two initial steps of phase-in to minimize those burdens, excluding certain smaller sources from greenhouse gas permitting until at least April 30, 2016. On January 2, 2011, the first step of the phase-in applied only to new projects at major sources (as defined under those CAA permitting programs) that, among other things, increase net greenhouse gas emissions by 75,000 tons per year. On July 1, 2011, the second step of the phase-in began requiring permitting for otherwise minor sources of air emissions that have the potential to emit at least 100,000 tons per year of greenhouse gases. On June 29, 2012, the EPA issued final regulations for “Phase III” of its program, retaining the permitting thresholds established in Phases I and II. On June 23, 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court held that greenhouse gas emissions alone cannot trigger an obligation to obtain such an air permit even if the project will substantially increase the source’s greenhouse gas emissions. However, for those sources that trigger such air permitting requirements based on their traditional criteria pollutant emissions, the permit must include a limit for greenhouse gases. In addition, the Court concluded that the rule was flawed because the EPA failed to identify a de minimis threshold for greenhouse gases below which Best Available Control Technology would not be required. The EPA has yet to set this threshold. This rule affects some of our and our customers’ largest new or modified facilities going forward. Although it is not currently possible to predict how any proposed or future greenhouse gas legislation or regulation by Congress, the states or multi-state regions will impact our business, any legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions or reduced demand for our services, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our operations entail inherent risks that may result in substantial liability. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities. Our operations entail inherent risks including equipment defects, malfunctions and failures and natural disasters which could result in uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. These risks may expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damages. Exterran Holdings insures our property and operations against many of these risks; however, the insurance it carries may not be adequate to cover our claims or losses. Exterran Holdings currently has minimal amount of insurance on our offshore assets. In addition, Exterran Holdings is substantially self-insured for worker’s compensation, employer’s liability, property, auto liability, general liability and employee group health claims in view of the relatively high per-incident deductibles it absorbs under its insurance arrangements for these risks. Further, insurance covering the risks we expect to face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. 26 Table of Contents Tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in locations throughout the United States and, as a result, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state, and local governments. From time to time, various legislative or administrative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our tax provision or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, U.S. federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Our Common Units Exterran Holdings controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Exterran Holdings has conflicts of interest, which may permit it to favor its own interests to our unitholders’ detriment. Exterran Holdings owns and controls our general partner. Most of our executive officers are officers of Exterran Holdings. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between Exterran Holdings and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Exterran Holdings to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Exterran Holdings’ directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the owners of Exterran Holdings, which may be contrary to our interests; · our general partner controls the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and Exterran Holdings, on the other hand, including provisions governing administrative services, acquisitions and transfers of compression equipment and non-competition provisions; · our general partner controls whether we agree to acquire additional contract operations customers or assets from Exterran Holdings that are offered to us by Exterran Holdings and the terms of such acquisitions; · our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Exterran Holdings and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest; · other than as provided in our Omnibus Agreement with Exterran Holdings, Exterran Holdings and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us. Exterran Holdings will continue to engage in U.S. and international contract operations services as well as third-party sales coupled with aftermarket service contracts and may, in certain circumstances, compete with us with respect to any future acquisition opportunities; · Exterran Holdings’ U.S. and international contract compression services businesses and its third-party equipment customers may compete with us for newly-fabricated and idle compression equipment and Exterran Holdings is under no obligation to offer equipment to us for purchase or use; · all of the officers and employees of Exterran Holdings who provide services to us also will devote significant time to the business of Exterran Holdings, and will be compensated by Exterran Holdings for the services rendered to it; · our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; · our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; · our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or a growth capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; · our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us and Exterran Holdings determines the allocation of shared overhead expenses; · our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; 27 Table of Contents · our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; · our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; and · our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which are determined by our general partner, are substantial and reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement we entered into with Exterran Holdings, our general partner, and others, Exterran Holdings receives reimbursement for the payment of operating expenses related to our operations and for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Payments for these services are substantial and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. Following the closing of the Spinoff transaction, Exterran Holdings will continue to provide these services for our benefit. However, the Spinoff transaction could materially affect Exterran Holdings’ costs for performing these services and could cause Exterran Holdings to alter its methodologies of allocating costs for performing services to us. Any such increase in costs or change in allocation methodologies could, in turn, increase the amount that we reimburse Exterran Holdings for performing these services. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units and restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: · permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to our partnership agreement; · provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; · generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of our board of directors acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; · provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and · provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. 28 Table of Contents Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its general partner’s directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders do not elect our general partner or its general partner’s board of directors, and have no right to elect our general partner or its general partner’s board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. Our board of directors is chosen by its sole member, a subsidiary of Exterran Holdings. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot currently remove our general partner without its consent. Unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As of December 31, 2014, our general partner and its affiliates owned 35% of our aggregate outstanding common units. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner, which is indirectly wholly owned by Exterran Holdings, may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger, or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Exterran Holdings, the owner of our general partner, from transferring all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner’s general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute our unitholders’ existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank by us will have the following effects: · our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; · the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and · the market price of the common units may decline. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units, other than our general partner and its affiliates, including Exterran Holdings. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by our partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, including Exterran Holdings, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of our board of directors, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions. Affiliates of our general partner may sell common units in the public or private markets, which could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. At December 31, 2014, Exterran Holdings and its affiliates held 19,618,918 common units. The sale of these common units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. 29 Table of Contents Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. At December 31, 2014, our general partner and its affiliates owned 35% of our aggregate outstanding common units. Unitholder liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if they were a general partner if: · a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or · a unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitutes “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. The market price of our common units may be influenced by many factors. Our common units are traded publicly on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “EXLP.” The market price of our common units may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · our quarterly distributions; · our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies or partnerships in our industry; · changes in commodity prices, including oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids; · changes in demand for natural gas in the U.S.; · loss of a large customer; · changes in interest rates; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; · tax legislation; · general economic conditions; · the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts; 30 Table of Contents · future sales of our common units; and · the other factors described in these Risk Factors. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue additional equity or incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes, and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue additional equity or incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We could lose our status as a partnership for a number of reasons, including not having enough “qualifying income.” If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The IRS has made no determination on our partnership status or any other tax matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, a publicly traded partnership such as us will be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless 90% or more of its gross income from its business activities is “qualifying income” under Section 7704(d) of the Internal Revenue Code. “Qualifying income” includes income and gains derived from the exploration, development, production, processing, transportation, storage and marketing of natural gas and natural gas products or other passive types of income such as interest and dividends. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are treated as a corporation, we could be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject to taxation as an entity if our gross income is not properly classified as qualifying income, there is a change in our business or there is a change in current law. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to additional entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Further, distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, the Obama administration’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2016 recommends that certain publicly traded partnerships earning income from activities related to fossil fuels be taxed as corporations beginning in 2021. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that could affect publicly traded partnerships. If successful, the Obama administration’s proposal or other similar proposals could eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly-traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 31 Table of Contents Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be reconsidered or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes or differing judicial interpretations of existing laws could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to additional entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If we were subjected to additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Currently we are subject to income and franchise taxes in several states. Imposition of such taxes on us reduces the cash available for distribution to our unitholders and may adversely affect the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to additional amounts of entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the U.S. federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely affected, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution. The IRS has made no determination with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the classification of any of the gross income from our business operations as “qualifying income” under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code, or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take, and a court may not agree with some or all of those positions. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner. Unitholders are required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income, which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, they will be required to pay any U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. Unitholders who sell common units recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to them if they sell such common units at a price greater than their tax basis in those common units, even if the price received is less than the original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, unitholders who sell their units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Tax-exempt entities or a non-U.S. persons should consult their tax advisors before investing in our common units. 32 Table of Contents We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Due to a number of factors, including our inability to match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholders’ tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, and, if successful, we would be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations. The U.S. Treasury Department’s proposed Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention are not final and do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g. a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units) may be considered to have disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of securities loan may be considered to have disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated as a partner for tax purposes with respect to those units and may recognize gain or loss from such disposition during the period of the loan. Moreover, during the period of such loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder for those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining unitholder’s allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methods or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our common units. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our respective assets. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our respective assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount, character and timing of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have constructively terminated as a partner for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same unit will count only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns for one calendar year. However, pursuant to an IRS relief procedure, the IRS may allow, among other things, a constructively terminated partnership to 33 Table of Contents provide a single Schedule K-1 for the calendar year in which a termination occurs. Our termination could also result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The Spinoff transaction is expected to result in a constructive termination on the date of the transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, our taxable year for all unitholders during the year the Spinoff transaction is consummated is expected to end on the date of the Spinoff transaction and may result in a deferral of depreciation deductions. Any such deferral could result in increased taxable income to unitholders in the year the Spinoff transaction is consummated. Unitholders may become subject to international, state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including international, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own or acquire property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders will likely be required to file international, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, they may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We conduct business and/or own assets in the states of Alabama, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, New York, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, West Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Each of these states, other than Tennessee, Texas and Wyoming, currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals. A majority of these states impose an income tax on corporations and other entities that may be unitholders. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may conduct business or own assets in additional states that impose a personal income tax or that impose entity level taxes to which certain unitholders could be subject. It is each unitholder’s responsibility to file all applicable U.S. federal, international, state and local tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 