ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our future business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The United States economy has experienced a downturn and stagnation since 2007, leading to a general reduction of business activity and growth across industries and regions. Consumer spending, liquidity and availability of credit have all been restricted, and unemployment is still a concern nationally as well as in the markets we serve. The financial services industry and the securities markets generally have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes. General declines in home prices and the resulting impact on sub-prime mortgages, and eventually, all mortgage and real estate classes as well as equity markets have resulted in continued widespread shortages of liquidity across the financial services industry. Continuation of the slow recovery or another economic downturn or sustained, high unemployment levels may negatively impact our operating results. Additionally, adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans. These factors could expose us to an increased risk of loan defaults and losses and could have an adverse impact on our earnings. Weaknesses in the markets for residential real estate, including secondary residential mortgage loan markets, could reduce our net income and profitability. Since 2007, softening residential housing markets, increasing delinquency and default rates, and increasingly volatile and constrained secondary credit markets have been negatively impacting the mortgage industry. Our financial results have been adversely affected by changes in real estate values, primarily in Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan and our net income has declined as a result. Decreases in real estate values have adversely affected the value of property used as collateral for loans and investments in our portfolios. The foregoing changes could affect our ability to originate loans and deposits, the fair value of our financial assets, and liabilities and the average maturity of our securities portfolio. An increase in the level of interest rates may also adversely affect the ability of certain of our borrowers to repay their obligations. If interest rates paid on deposits or other borrowings were to increase at a faster rate than the interest rates earned on loans and investments, our net income would be adversely affected. 6 | Page Table of Contents We are subject to interest rate risk. The rates of interest we earn on assets and pay on liabilities generally are established contractually for a period of time. Market interest rates change over time due to many factors that are beyond our control, including but not limited to: general economic conditions and government policy, especially policies of the Federal Reserve Bank. Accordingly, our results of operations, like those of other financial institutions, are impacted by changes in interest rates and the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities. The risk associated with changes in interest rates and our ability to adapt to these changes is known as interest rate risk. We are subject to lending risk. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include the impact of changes in interest rates and change in the economic conditions in the markets we serve, as well as those across the United States. An increase in interest rates and/or continued weakening economic conditions (such as continued high levels of unemployment) could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, or could substantially weaken the value of collateral securing those loans. Continued downward pressure on real estate values could increase the potential for problem loans and thus have a direct impact on our consolidated results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. To address risks inherent in our loan portfolio, we maintain an allowance for loan losses that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that exist within our loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of various factors, including specific credit risks, historical loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions, and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. Determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make estimates of significant credit risks, which may undergo material changes. In evaluating our impaired loans, we assess repayment expectations and determine collateral values based on all information that is available to us. However, we must often make subjective decisions based on our assumption about the creditworthiness of the borrowers and the values of collateral securing these loans. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically examine our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the allowance or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of our management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed our allowance for loan losses, we will need to take additional loan loss provisions to increase our allowance for loan losses. Any additional loan loss provision will reduce our net income or increase our net loss, which could have a direct material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the fair value or ratings downgrades of our securities may reduce our stockholders’ equity, net earnings, or regulatory capital ratios. At September 30, 2012, $67,111 of our securities, were classified as available-for-sale. The estimated fair value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio may increase or decrease depending on market conditions. Our available-for-sale securities portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed-rate securities. We increase or decrease stockholders’ equity by the amount of the change in unrealized gain or loss (the difference between the estimated fair value and amortized cost) of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of the related tax benefit, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss. Therefore, a decline in the estimated fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in our reported stockholders’ equity, as well as our book value per common share and tangible book value per common share. This decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. In the case of debt securities, if these securities are never sold, the decrease may be recovered over the life of the securities. We conduct a periodic review and evaluation of our securities portfolio to determine if the decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Factors which we consider in our analysis include, but are not limited to, the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the security, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, whether the decline appears to be related to issuer conditions or general market or industry conditions, our intent and ability to retain the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and the likelihood of any near-term fair value recovery. We generally view changes in fair value caused by changes in interest rates as temporary, which is consistent with our experience. If we deem such decline to be other-than-temporary related to credit losses, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income in the period in which the decline in value occurs. 7 | Page Table of Contents We have, in the past, recorded other than temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charges, principally arising from investments in non-agency mortgage-backed securities. We continue to monitor our securities portfolio as part of our ongoing OTTI evaluation process. No assurance can be given that we will not need to recognize OTTI charges related to securities in the future. Future OTTI charges would cause decreases to both Tier 1 and Risk-based capital levels which may expose the Company to additional regulatory restrictions. The capital that we are required to maintain for regulatory purposes is impacted by, among other factors, the securities ratings on our portfolio. Therefore, ratings downgrades on our securities may have a material adverse effect on our risk-based regulatory capital levels. Competition may affect our results. We face strong competition in originating loans, in seeking deposits and in offering other banking services. We must compete with commercial banks, trust companies, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms. Our market area is also served by commercial banks and savings associations that are substantially larger than us in terms of deposits and loans and have greater human and financial resources. This competitive climate can make it more difficult to establish and maintain relationships with new and existing customers and can lower the rate we are able to charge on loans, increase the rates we must offer on deposits, and affect our charges for other services. Those factors can, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. We may not have sufficient pre-tax net income in future periods to fully realize the benefits of our net deferred tax assets. Assessing the need for, or the sufficiency of, a valuation allowance requires management to evaluate all available evidence. Based on future pre-tax net income projections and the planned execution of existing tax planning strategies, we believe that it is more likely than not that we will fully realize the benefits of our net deferred tax assets. However, our current assessment is based on assumptions and judgments that may or may not reflect actual future results. If a valuation allowance becomes necessary, it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Maintaining or increasing our market share may depend on lowering prices and market acceptance of new products and services. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and customer demands. We face increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices, which can reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet banking services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services. Also, these and other capital investments in our business may not produce expected growth in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of our products and services, or developing and maintaining loyal customers, which in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic industry conditions. Geopolitical conditions may affect our earnings. Acts or threats of terrorism and political actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to terrorism, or similar activity, could adversely affect general or industry conditions and, as a result, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and are subject to changes, which could increase our cost structure or have other negative impacts on our operations. The banking industry is extensively regulated at the federal and state levels. Insured depository institutions and their holding companies are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by financial regulatory authorities covering all aspects of their organization, management and operations. Specifically, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 8 | Page Table of Contents Protection Act has resulted in the elimination of the Office of Thrift Supervision, tightening of capital standards, and the creation of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Moreover, it has resulted, or is likely to result, in new laws, regulations and regulatory supervisors that are expected to increase our cost of operations. In addition, the change to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) as our primary regulator may result in interpretations different than those formerly provided by the Office of Thrift Supervision. The OCC is now the primary regulator of the Bank, and the Federal Reserve Bank is the primary regulator of the Company. In addition to its regulatory powers, the OCC also has significant enforcement authority that it can use to address banking practices that it believes to be unsafe and unsound, violations of laws, and capital and operational deficiencies. Regulation includes, among other things, capital and reserve requirements, permissible investments and lines of business, dividend limitations, limitations on products and services offered, loan limits, geographical limits, consumer credit regulations, community reinvestment requirements and restrictions on transactions with affiliated parties. The system of supervision and regulation applicable to us establishes a comprehensive framework for our operations and is intended primarily for the protection of the Deposit Insurance Fund, our depositors and the public, rather than our stockholders. We are also subject to regulation by the SEC. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or policies could result in sanction by regulatory agencies, civil monetary penalties, and/or damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any change in government regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business. As described in Item 7; “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” under the heading “Capital Resources”, each of Citizens Community Bancorp, Inc. and Citizens Community Federal are subject to a Memorandum of Understanding with the OCC, which contains certain restrictions on our operations. We are subject to increases in FDIC insurance premiums and special assessments by the FDIC, which will adversely affect our earnings. During 2008 and continuing in 2009, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund. On July 21, 2010, President Barack Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which, in part, permanently raised the current standard maximum deposit insurance amount to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000). On November 9, 2010, the FDIC issued a Final Rule implementing section 343 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that provides for unlimited insurance coverage of noninterest-bearing transaction accounts. Beginning December 31, 2010, through December 31, 2012, all noninterest-bearing transaction accounts are fully insured, regardless of the balance of the account, at all FDIC-insured institutions. These programs have placed additional stress on the Deposit Insurance Fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of the insured institutions. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of estimated deposit insurance premiums by December 31, 2009. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If additional bank or financial institution failures continue or increase, or if the cost of resolving prior failures exceeds expectations, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. These announced increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact our earnings and financial condition. Customers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could result in a loss of income to us. Technology and other changes are allowing customers to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks at one or both ends of the transaction. For example, customers can now pay bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits. Our internal controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well-designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any (a) failure or 9 | Page Table of Contents circumvention of our controls and procedures, (b) failure to adequately address existing internal control deficiencies, or (c) failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. See Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” for further discussion of internal controls. We could experience an unexpected inability to obtain needed liquidity. Liquidity measures the ability to meet current and future cash flow needs as they become due. The liquidity of a financial institution reflects its ability to meet loan requests, to accommodate possible outflows in deposits, and to take advantage of interest rate market opportunities. The ability of a financial institution to meet its current financial obligations is a function of its balance sheet structure, its ability to liquidate assets and its access to alternative sources of funds. We seek to ensure our funding needs are met by maintaining an appropriate level of liquidity through asset/liability management. If we become unable to obtain funds when needed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, it could limit our ability to take advantage of what we believe to be good market opportunities for expanding our loan portfolio. Future growth, operating results or regulatory requirements may require us to raise additional capital but that capital may not be available. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. To the extent our future operating results erode capital or we elect to expand through loan growth or acquisition, we may be required to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on our growth and business. These actions could negatively impact our ability to operate or further expand our operations and may result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to attract or retain skilled people. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our local markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology driven by new or modified products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Our shares of common stock are thinly traded and our stock price may be more volatile. Because our common stock is thinly traded, its market price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market in general or the stock prices of similar companies, which are exchanged, listed or quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market. We believe there are 4,698,243 shares of our common stock held by nonaffiliates as of December 10, 2012. Thus, our common stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and as a result, the trading prices for our shares of common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price of our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. 10 | Page Table of Contents We rely on network and information systems and other technologies, and, as a result, we are subject to various Cybersecurity risks. Cybersecurity refers to the combination of technologies, processes and procedures established to protect information technology systems and data from unauthorized access, attack, or damage. Our business involves the storage and transmission of customers’ personal information. While we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our measures may not be effective and any security breaches and cyber incidents could have a material adverse affect on our business. Furthermore, the storage and transmission of such data is regulated at the federal and state level. Privacy information security laws and regulation changes, and compliance therewith, may result in cost increases due to system changes and the development of new administrative processes. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subject to fines, penalties, administrative orders and other legal risks as a result of a breach or non-compliance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 11 | Page Table of Contents 