ITEM 1A. Risk Factors As described in Part I (“Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”), this report contains forward-looking statements regarding us, our business and our industry. The risk factors described below, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay our current quarterly distribution on our common units or grow such distributions and the trading price of our common units could decline. Risks Related to Our Business A substantial portion of our cash flow must be used to service our debt obligations, and future interest rate increases could reduce the amount of our cash available for distribution. As of December 31, 2010, we had $449.0 million outstanding under our senior secured credit facility, which was comprised of $150.0 million outstanding under our term loan and $299.0 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility. The credit agreement requires that we make mandatory prepayments of the term loan with the net cash proceeds of certain asset transfers and debt issuances. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facility bear interest at floating rates. We have effectively fixed a portion of the floating rate debt through the use of interest rate swaps; however, changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing our funds available for capital investment, operations or distributions to our unitholders. Covenants in our senior secured credit facility may impair our ability to operate our business. Our senior secured credit facility contains various covenants with which we must comply, including restrictions on the use of proceeds from borrowings and limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate, sell assets, make certain investments and acquisitions, make loans, grant liens, repurchase equity and pay dividends and distributions. We must maintain various consolidated financial ratios, including a ratio of EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) to Total Interest Expense (as defined in the credit agreement) of not less than 3.0 to 1.0 (which will decrease to 2.75 to 1.0 following the occurrence of certain events specified in the credit agreement) and a ratio of Total Debt (as defined in the credit agreement) to EBITDA of not greater than 4.75 to 1.0. The credit agreement allows for our Total Debt to EBITDA ratio to be increased from 4.75 to 1.0 to 5.25 to 1.0 during a quarter when we complete an acquisition meeting certain thresholds, and for the following two quarters after the acquisition closes. Therefore, because the August 2010 Contract Operations Acquisition closed in the third quarter of 2010, the maximum allowed ratio of Total Debt to EBITDA is 5.25 to 1.0 through March 31, 2011, reverting to 4.75 to 1.0 for the quarter ending June 30, 2011 and subsequent quarters. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all financial covenants under our credit agreement. As of December 31, 2010, we maintained a 5.8 to 1.0 EBITDA to Total Interest Expense ratio and a 3.7 to 1.0 Total Debt to EBITDA ratio. If we experience a material adverse effect on our assets, liabilities, financial condition, business, operations or prospects that, taken as a whole, impact our ability to perform our obligations under our credit agreement, this could lead to a default under our credit agreement. The breach of any of our covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement which could cause our indebtedness under our credit agreement to become due and payable. If the repayment obligations on any of our indebtedness were to be so accelerated, we may not be able to repay the debt or refinance the debt on acceptable terms, and our financial position would be materially adversely affected. We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to make cash distributions to holders of our common units and subordinated units at our current distribution rate. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at our current distribution rate. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the risks described in this section. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; 16 Table of Contents • the cost of acquisitions; • our debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to refinance our debt in the future or borrow funds and access capital markets; • restrictions contained in our debt agreements; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. We currently are dependent on our costs caps to generate sufficient cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at our current distribution rate. These caps expire on December 31, 2011, and we cannot assure you that Exterran Holdings will agree to extend them or that we will otherwise be able to make distributions at our current rate if they are not extended. Under the Omnibus Agreement, Exterran Holdings has agreed that, for a period of time, our obligation to reimburse Exterran Holdings for (i) any cost of sales that it incurs in the operation of our business will be capped (after taking into account any such costs we incur and pay directly); and (ii) any SG&A costs allocated to us will be capped (after taking into account any such costs we incur and pay directly). At December 31, 2010, cost of sales were capped at $21.75 per operating horsepower per quarter and SG&A costs were capped at $7.6 million per quarter. During 2010 and 2009, our cost of sales exceeded this cap by $21.4 million and $7.2 million, respectively, and our SG&A expense exceeded this cap by $3.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively. Accordingly, our cash generated from operating surplus and our EBITDA, as further adjusted (please see Part II, Item 6 “Selected Financial Data — Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for a discussion of EBITDA, as further adjusted), would have been approximately $24.7 million lower during 2010 and approximately $7.8 million lower during 2009 without the cost caps. As a result, without the benefit of the cost caps, we would not have generated sufficient available cash from operating surplus during 2010 to pay distributions at the level paid during that year without having to incur borrowings. These cost caps expire on December 31, 2011 and Exterran Holdings is under no obligation to extend them. In addition to our general partner and 13,666,107 common units, Exterran Holdings owns 4,743,750 subordinated units in us. Subject to early conversion of a portion of the units as described in “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities,” these subordinated units convert into common units upon the first day of any quarter beginning after September 30, 2011 that certain financial tests are met, including requirements that we distributed available cash from operating surplus on each of the outstanding common units, subordinated units and general partner units and generated “adjusted operating surplus” (as defined in our partnership agreement) in respect of each such unit equal to or in excess of the minimum quarterly distribution for each of the three consecutive, non-overlapping four-quarter periods immediately preceding that date. For purposes of this test, the amount of operating surplus and adjusted operating surplus that we generate during the applicable periods are positively impacted by the reduction in our costs due to the cost caps. Accordingly, to the extent that the cost caps allow us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on all of our outstanding units and thereby contribute to the conversion of the subordinated units into common units, Exterran Holdings benefits from the costs caps during the subordination period and such benefit no longer exists upon conversion of the subordinated units. We cannot assure you that Exterran Holdings will agree to extend the cost caps or, if extended, the amount of the caps. The expiration of these caps, without an extension to them under the Omnibus Agreement, would likely reduce the amount of cash flow available to unitholders and, accordingly, may impair our ability to maintain or increase our distributions. As we continue to acquire additional compression equipment from Exterran Holdings we expect that our maintenance capital expenditures will increase, which could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. Exterran Holdings manages its and our respective U.S. fleets as one pool of compression equipment from which we can each readily fulfill our respective customers’ service needs. When we or Exterran Holdings are advised of a contract operations services opportunity, Exterran Holdings reviews both our and its fleet for an available and appropriate compressor unit. Given that the substantial majority of the idle compression equipment has been and is currently held by Exterran Holdings, much of the idle compression equipment required for these contract operations services opportunities has been held by Exterran Holdings. Under the Omnibus Agreement, the owner of the equipment being transferred is required to pay the costs associated with making the idle 17 Table of Contents equipment suitable for the proposed customer and then has generally leased the equipment to the recipient of the equipment or exchanged the equipment for other equipment of the recipient. Since Exterran Holdings has owned the substantial majority of such equipment, Exterran Holdings has generally had to bear a larger portion of the maintenance capital expenditures associated with making transferred equipment ready for service. For equipment that is then leased, the maintenance capital cost is a component of the lease rate that is paid under the lease. As we acquire more compression equipment, we expect that more of our equipment will be available to satisfy our or Exterran Holdings’ customer requirements. As a result, we expect that our maintenance capital expenditures will increase (and that lease expense will be reduced) which could reduce our cash available for distribution. Our inability to fund purchases of additional compression equipment could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. We may not be able to maintain or grow our asset and customer base unless we have access to sufficient capital to purchase additional compression equipment. Cash flow from our operations and availability under our credit facility may not provide us with sufficient cash to fund our capital expenditure requirements, including any funding requirements related to acquisitions. Additionally, pursuant to our partnership agreement, we intend to distribute all of our “available cash,” as defined in the partnership agreement, to our unitholders on a quarterly basis. Therefore, a significant portion of our cash flow from operations will be used to fund such distributions. As a result, we intend to fund our growth capital expenditures and acquisitions, including future acquisitions of compression contracts and equipment from Exterran Holdings, with external sources of capital including additional borrowings under our credit facility and/or public or private offerings of equity or debt. Our ability to grow our asset and customer base could be impacted by any limits on our ability to access equity and debt capital. Failure to generate sufficient cash flow, together with the absence of alternative sources of capital, could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We depend on demand for and production of natural gas in the U.S.; a reduction in this demand or production could adversely affect the demand or the prices we charge for our services which could adversely affect our business and decrease our revenue and cash available for distribution. Natural gas contract operations in the U.S. are significantly dependent upon the demand for and production of natural gas in the U.S. Demand may be affected by, among other factors, natural gas prices, weather, demand for energy and availability and price of alternative energy sources. A reduction in U.S. demand could force us to reduce our pricing substantially. Additionally, compression services for our customers’ production from unconventional natural gas sources such as tight sands, shales and coalbeds constitute an increasing percentage of our business. Some of these unconventional sources are less economic to produce in lower natural gas price environments. Further, some of these unconventional sources may not require as much compression or require compression as early in the production life-cycle of an unconventional field or well as has been experienced historically in conventional and other unconventional natural gas sources. These factors could in turn negatively impact the demand for our services. Any prolonged, substantial reduction in the U.S. demand for natural gas would, in all likelihood, depress the level of production activity and result in a decline in the demand for our contract operations services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, we review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. A decline in demand for oil and natural gas or prices for those commodities, or instability in the U.S. energy markets could cause a reduction in demand for our services and result in a reduction of our estimates of future cash flows and growth rates in our business. These events could cause us to record additional impairments of long-lived assets. For example, during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we recorded long-lived asset impairments of $25.0 million and $3.2 million, respectively. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded a $24.6 million impairment for idle units we retired from our fleet and expect to sell. We expect it to take several years to sell these compressor units and, if we are not able to sell these units for the amount we estimated in our impairment analysis, we could be required to record an additional impairment. The impairment of our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The erosion of the financial condition of our customers could adversely affect our business. Many of our customers finance their exploration and development activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. During times when the oil or natural gas markets weaken, our customers are more likely to experience a downturn in their financial condition. A reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing could result in a reduction in our customers’ spending for our services. For example, our customers could 18 Table of Contents seek to preserve capital by canceling month-to-month contracts or determining not to enter into any new natural gas compression service contracts, thereby reducing demand for our services. Reduced demand for our services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, in the event of the financial failure of a customer, we could experience a loss on all or a portion of our outstanding accounts receivable associated with that customer. The currently available supply of compression equipment owned by our customers and competitors could cause a reduction in demand for our services and a reduction in our pricing. We believe there currently exists a greater supply of idle and underutilized compression equipment owned by our customers and competitors in North America than in recent years and it may be challenging for us to significantly improve our horsepower utilization and revenues in the near term. Some of our customers may continue to replace our compression equipment and services with equipment they own or with competitor owned equipment and may continue to rationalize their amount of compression horsepower. In addition, some of our customers or prospective customers may purchase their own compression equipment in lieu of using our contract operations services. A reduction in demand for our services, or reduction in our pricing for our services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our agreement not to compete with Exterran Holdings limits our ability to grow. We have entered into an Omnibus Agreement with Exterran Holdings, and several of its subsidiaries. The Omnibus Agreement includes certain agreements not to compete between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and Exterran Holdings and its affiliates, on the other hand. This agreement not to compete with Exterran Holdings limits our ability to grow. For further discussion of the Omnibus Agreement, please see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 (“Financial Statements”) of this report. We face significant competitive pressures that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance. Our industry is highly competitive and there are low barriers to entry. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive services or substantially decrease the price at which they offer their services, we may not be able to compete effectively. Some of these competitors may expand or fabricate new compression units that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. Any of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We may not be able to grow our cash flows if we do not expand our business, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase distributions to our unitholders. Our goal to continue to grow the per unit distribution on our units is dependent in part upon our ability to expand our business. Our future growth will depend upon a number of factors, some of which we cannot control. These factors include our ability to: • acquire additional U.S. contract operations services business from Exterran Holdings; • consummate accretive acquisitions; • enter into contracts for new services with our existing customers or new customers; and • obtain required financing for our existing and new operations. A deficiency in any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve growth in the level of our cash flows or realize benefits from acquisitions. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and our ability to maintain or increase distributions to our unitholders will be limited. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make accretive acquisitions. If we are unable to make these accretive acquisitions either because we are: (i) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (ii) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or (iii) outbid by competitors, then 19 Table of Contents our future growth and ability to maintain or increase distributions would be limited. Furthermore, even if we make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • mistaken assumptions about the cash generated or anticipated to be generated by the business acquired or the overall costs of equity or debt; • the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; • unforeseen operating difficulties; and • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our future funds and other resources. In addition, competition from other buyers could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay. Exterran Holdings continues to own and operate a substantial U.S. contract compression business, competition from which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Exterran Holdings and its affiliates other than us are prohibited from competing directly or indirectly with us with respect to certain of our existing customers and certain locations where we currently conduct business, and with respect to any new contract compression customer that approaches either Exterran Holdings or ourselves, until the earliest to occur of November 10, 2012, a change of control of Exterran Holdings or our general partner, or the removal or withdrawal of our general partner. Otherwise, Exterran Holdings is not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Exterran Holdings continues to own and operate a U.S. contract operations business, including natural gas compression, and continues to engage in international contract operations, fabrication and aftermarket service activities. Exterran Holdings is a large, established participant in the contract operations business, and has significantly greater resources, including idle compression equipment, operating personnel, fabrication operations, vendor relationships and experience, than we have, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with it with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. Exterran Holdings and its affiliates may acquire, fabricate or dispose of additional natural gas compression or other assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, competition from Exterran Holdings could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. We may be unable to grow through acquisitions of the remainder of Exterran Holdings’ U.S. contract operations business, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase distributions to our unitholders. Exterran Holdings is under no obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase the remainder of its U.S. contract operations business, and its board of directors owes fiduciary duties to the stockholders of Exterran Holdings, and not our unitholders, in making any decision to offer us this opportunity. Likewise, we are not required to purchase any additional portions of such business. The consummation of any such purchases will depend upon, among other things, Exterran Holdings’ ability to continue to convert its existing compression agreements to a form of service agreement, our reaching an agreement with Exterran Holdings regarding the terms of such purchases (which will require the approval of the conflicts committee of our board of directors) and our ability to finance such purchases on acceptable terms. Additionally, Exterran Holdings may be limited in its ability to consummate sales of additional portions of such business to us by the terms of its existing or future credit facilities or indentures. Additionally, our credit facility includes covenants that may limit our ability to finance acquisitions. If a sale of any additional portion of Exterran Holdings’ U.S. contract operations business would be restricted or prohibited by such covenants, we or Exterran Holdings may be required to 20 Table of Contents seek waivers of such provisions or refinance those debt instruments in order to consummate a sale, neither of which may be accomplished timely, if at all. If we are unable to grow through additional acquisitions of the remainder of Exterran Holdings’ U.S. contract operations business, our ability to maintain or increase distributions to our unitholders may be limited. Many of our compression services contracts with customers have short initial terms, and we cannot be sure that such contracts will be renewed after the end of the initial contractual term, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. The length of our compression services contracts with customers varies based on operating conditions and customer needs. Our initial contract terms are not long enough to enable us to fully recoup the cost of acquiring the equipment we use to provide compression services. We cannot be sure that a substantial number of these customers will continue to renew their contracts, that we will be able to enter into new compression services contracts with new customers or that any renewals will be at comparable service rates. The inability to renew a substantial portion of our compression services contracts, or the inability to renew a substantial portion of our compression services contracts at comparable service rates, would adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution and could require us to record additional asset impairments. This would have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our ability to manage and grow our business effectively may be adversely affected if Exterran Holdings loses management or operational personnel. Most of our officers are also officers or employees of Exterran Holdings. Additionally, we do not have any of our own employees, but rather rely on Exterran Holdings’ employees to operate our business. We believe that Exterran Holdings’ ability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel will continue to be challenging and important as we grow. When general industry conditions are good, the supply of experienced operational, fabrication and field personnel, in particular, decreases as other energy and manufacturing companies’ needs for the same personnel increase. Our ability to grow and to continue our current level of service to our customers will be adversely impacted if Exterran Holdings is unable to successfully hire, train and retain these important personnel. If we are unable to purchase compression equipment from Exterran Holdings or others, we may not be able to retain existing customers or compete for new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Exterran Holdings is under no obligation to offer or sell to us newly fabricated or idle compression equipment and may choose not to do so timely or at all. We may not be able to purchase newly fabricated or idle compression equipment from third-party producers or marketers of such equipment or from our competitors. If we are unable to purchase compression equipment on a timely basis to meet the demands of our customers, our existing customers may terminate their contractual relationships with us, or we may not be able to compete for business from new customers, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our reliance on Exterran Holdings as an operator of our assets and our limited ability to control certain costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement between us and Exterran Holdings, Exterran Holdings provides us with all administrative and operational services, including without limitation all operations, marketing, maintenance and repair, periodic overhauls of compression equipment, inventory management, legal, accounting, treasury, insurance administration and claims processing, risk management, health, safety and environmental, information technology, human resources, credit, payroll, internal audit, taxes and engineering services necessary to run our business. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depends significantly upon Exterran Holdings’ satisfactory operation of our assets and performance of these services. Our reliance on Exterran Holdings as an operator of our assets and our resulting limited ability to control certain costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We indirectly depend on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to product shortages and price increases, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Some of the components used in our compressors are obtained by Exterran Holdings from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Exterran Holdings’ reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases, inferior component quality 21 Table of Contents and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. Exterran Holdings does not have long-term contracts with these sources, and its partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, since any increase in component prices for compression equipment fabricated by Exterran Holdings for us will be passed on to us, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could have a negative impact on our results of operations. New regulations, proposed regulations and proposed modifications to existing regulations under the Clean Air Act (“CAA”), if implemented, could result in increased compliance costs. On August 20, 2010, the EPA published new regulations under the CAA to control emissions of hazardous air pollutants from existing stationary reciprocal internal combustion engines. The rule will require us to undertake certain expenditures and activities, likely including purchasing and installing emissions control equipment, such as oxidation catalysts or non-selective catalytic reduction equipment, on a portion of our engines located at major sources of hazardous air pollutants and all our engines over a certain size regardless of location, following prescribed maintenance practices for engines (which are consistent with our existing practices), and implementing additional emissions testing and monitoring. On October 19, 2010, we submitted a legal challenge to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and a Petition for Administrative Reconsideration to EPA for some monitoring aspects of the rule. The legal challenge has been held in abeyance since December 3, 2010, pending EPA’s consideration of the Petition for Administrative Reconsideration. On January 5, 2011, the EPA approved the request for reconsideration of the monitoring issues and that reconsideration process is ongoing. At this point, we cannot predict when, how or if an EPA or a court ruling would modify the final rule, and as a result we cannot currently accurately predict the cost to comply with the rule’s requirements. Compliance with the final rule is required by October 2013. In addition, the TCEQ has finalized revisions to certain air permit programs that significantly increase the air permitting requirements for new and certain existing oil and gas production and gathering sites for 23 counties in the Barnett Shale production area. The final rule establishes new emissions standards for engines, which could impact the operation of specific categories of engines by requiring the use of alternative engines, compressor packages or the installation of aftermarket emissions control equipment. The rule will become effective for the Barnett Shale production area in April 2011, with the lower emissions standards becoming applicable between 2015 and 2030 depending on the type of engine and the permitting requirements. The cost to comply with the revised air permit programs is not expected to be material at this time. However, the TCEQ has stated it will consider expanding application of the new air permit program statewide. At this point, we cannot predict the cost to comply with such requirements if the geographic scope is expanded. In June 2010, the EPA formally proposed modifications to existing regulations under the CAA that established new source performance standards for manufacturers, owners and operators of new, modified and reconstructed stationary internal combustion engines. The proposed rule modifications, if adopted as drafted by the EPA, may require us to undertake significant expenditures, including expenditures for purchasing, installing, monitoring and maintaining emissions control equipment on a potentially significant percentage of our natural gas compressor engine fleet. At this point, we cannot predict the final regulatory requirements or the cost to comply with such requirements. The EPA expects to finalize the proposed rules in May 2011 with an effective date targeted for July 2011. These new regulations and proposals, when finalized, and any other new regulations requiring the installation of more sophisticated pollution control equipment could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to substantial environmental regulation, and changes in these regulations could increase our costs or liabilities. We are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment, emission controls and other environmental protection and occupational health and safety concerns. Environmental laws and regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, which may render us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring land owners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could negatively impact our financial 22 Table of Contents condition or results of operations. Moreover, failure to comply with these environmental laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties and the issuance of injunctions delaying or prohibiting operations. We may need to apply for or amend facility permits or licenses from time to time with respect to storm water or wastewater discharges, waste handling, or air emissions relating to manufacturing activities or equipment operations, which subjects us to new or revised permitting conditions that may be onerous or costly to comply with. In addition, certain of our customer service arrangements may require us to operate, on behalf of a specific customer, petroleum storage units such as underground tanks or pipelines and other regulated units, all of which may impose additional compliance and permitting obligations. We conduct operations at numerous facilities in a wide variety of locations across the continental U.S. The operations at many of these facilities require U.S. federal, state or local environmental permits or other authorizations. Additionally, natural gas compressors at many of our customers’ facilities require individual air permits or general authorizations to operate under various air regulatory programs established by rule or regulation. These permits and authorizations frequently contain numerous compliance requirements, including monitoring and reporting obligations and operational restrictions, such as emission limits. Given the large number of facilities in which we operate, and the numerous environmental permits and other authorizations that are applicable to our operations, we may occasionally identify or be notified of technical violations of certain requirements existing in various permits or other authorizations. Occasionally, we have been assessed penalties for our non-compliance, and we could be subject to such penalties in the future. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties used by us to provide contract operations services or inactive compression storage or on or under other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, remediation and monitoring requirements under federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. The modification or interpretation of existing environmental laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing environmental laws or regulations, or the adoption of new environmental laws or regulations may also negatively impact oil and natural gas exploration and production, gathering and pipeline companies, including our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on us. Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased compliance costs. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has been considering legislation to restrict or regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane, that are understood to contribute to global warming. The American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, passed by the House of Representatives, would, if enacted by the full Congress, have required greenhouse gas emissions reductions by covered sources of as much as 17% from 2005 levels by 2020 and by as much as 83% by 2050. It presently appears unlikely that comprehensive climate legislation will be passed by either house of Congress in the near future, although energy legislation and other initiatives are expected to be proposed that may be relevant to greenhouse gas emissions issues. In addition, almost half of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun to address greenhouse gas emissions, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Although most of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that smaller sources such as our gas-fired compressors could become subject to greenhouse gas-related regulation. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to control emissions or to purchase and surrender allowances for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations. Independent of Congress, the EPA is beginning to adopt regulations controlling greenhouse gas emissions under its existing CAA authority. For example, in September 2009, the EPA adopted a new rule requiring approximately 13,000 facilities comprising a substantial percentage of annual U.S. greenhouse gas emissions to inventory their emissions starting in 2010 and to report those emissions to the EPA beginning in 2011. On November 30, 2010, the EPA finalized additional portions of this inventory rule relating to petroleum and natural gas systems that require inventories for that category of facilities beginning in January 2011 and reporting of those inventories beginning in March 2012. Also, on December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its finalized determination that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA pave the way for the agency to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the CAA. Further, the EPA in June 2010 published a final rule providing for the tailored applicability of criteria that determine which stationary sources and modification projects become subject to permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions under two of the agency’s major air permitting programs. The EPA reported that the rulemaking was 23 Table of Contents necessary because without it certain permitting requirements would apply as of January 2011 at an emissions level that would have greatly increased the number of required permits and, among other things, imposed undue costs on small sources and overwhelmed the resources of permitting authorities. In the rule, the EPA established two initial steps of phase-in to minimize those burdens, excluding certain smaller sources from greenhouse gas permitting until at least April 30, 2016. On January 2, 2011, the first step of the phase-in applied only to new projects at major sources (as defined under those CAA permitting programs) that, among other things, increase net greenhouse gas emissions by 75,000 tons per year. In July 2011, the second step of the phase-in will capture sources that have the potential to emit at least 100,000 tons per year of greenhouse gases. This new permitting program may affect some of our customers’ largest new or modified facilities going forward. Although it is not currently possible to predict how any such proposed or future greenhouse gas legislation or regulation by Congress, the states or multi-state regions will impact our business, any legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions or reduced demand for our services, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities. Our operations are subject to inherent risks such as equipment defects, malfunction and failures and natural disasters that can result in uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damages. Exterran Holdings insures our property and operations against many of these risks; however, the insurance it carries may not be adequate to cover our claims or losses. Exterran Holdings currently has minimal insurance on our offshore assets. In addition, Exterran Holdings is substantially self-insured for worker’s compensation, employer’s liability, property, auto liability, general liability and employee group health claims in view of the relatively high per-incident deductibles it absorbs under its insurance arrangements for these risks. Further, insurance covering the risks we face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Our Common Units Exterran Holdings controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Exterran Holdings has conflicts of interest, which may permit it to favor its own interests to our unitholders’ detriment. Exterran Holdings owns and controls our general partner. One of our general partner’s directors is a director of Exterran Holdings and most of our executive officers are officers of Exterran Holdings. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between Exterran Holdings and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Exterran Holdings to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Exterran Holdings’ directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the owners of Exterran Holdings, which may be contrary to our interests; • our general partner controls the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and Exterran Holdings, on the other hand, including provisions governing administrative services, acquisitions and transfers of compression equipment and non-competition provisions; • our general partner controls whether we agree to acquire additional contract operations customers or assets from Exterran Holdings that are offered to us by Exterran Holdings and the terms of such acquisitions; • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Exterran Holdings and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest; • other than as provided in our Omnibus Agreement with Exterran Holdings, Exterran Holdings and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us. Exterran Holdings will continue to engage in U.S. and international contract operations services 24 Table of Contents as well as third-party sales coupled with aftermarket service contracts and may, in certain circumstances, compete with us with respect to any future acquisition opportunities; • Exterran Holdings’ U.S. and international contract compression services businesses and its third-party equipment customers may compete with us for newly fabricated and idle compression equipment and Exterran Holdings is under no obligation to offer equipment to us for purchase or use; • all of the officers and employees of Exterran Holdings who provide services to us also will devote significant time to the business of Exterran Holdings, and will be compensated by Exterran Holdings for the services rendered to it; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us and Exterran Holdings determines the allocation of shared overhead expenses; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which are determined by our general partner, are substantial and reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement we entered into with Exterran Holdings, our general partner, and others, Exterran Holdings receives reimbursement for the payment of operating expenses related to our operations and for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Payments for these services are substantial and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units and subordinated units and restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: 25 Table of Contents • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of our board of directors acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its general partner’s directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders do not elect our general partner or its general partner’s board of directors, and have no right to elect our general partner or its general partner’s board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. Our board of directors is chosen by its sole member, a subsidiary of Exterran Holdings. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot currently remove our general partner without its consent. The unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner. As of December 31, 2010, our general partner and its affiliates owned 57% of our aggregate outstanding common and subordinated units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of the general partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units to common units. 26 Table of Contents Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner, which is indirectly wholly owned by Exterran Holdings, may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger, or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Exterran Holdings, the owner of our general partner, from transferring all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner’s general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute our unitholders’ existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units, other than our general partner and its affiliates, including Exterran Holdings. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, including Exterran Holdings, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of our board of directors, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions. Affiliates of our general partner may sell common or subordinated units in the public or private markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. At December 31, 2010, Exterran Holdings and its affiliates held 4,743,750 subordinated units and 13,666,107 common units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period and some or all may convert earlier. The sale of these subordinated units or common units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. At December 31, 2010, our general partner and its affiliates owned 57% of our aggregate outstanding common and subordinated units, including all of our subordinated units. Unitholder liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner 27 Table of Contents interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if they were a general partner if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • a unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitutes “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Our common units have a limited trading volume compared to other units representing limited partner interests. Our common units are traded publicly on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “EXLP.” However, daily trading volumes for our common units are, and may continue to be, relatively small compared to many other units representing limited partner interests quoted on the NASDAQ. The price of our common units may, therefore, be volatile. The market price of our common units may also be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • our quarterly distributions; • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies or partnerships in our industry; • changes in commodity prices; • changes in demand for natural gas in the U.S.; • loss of a large customer; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • tax legislation; • general economic conditions; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts; • future sales of our common units; and • the other factors described in these Risk Factors. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue additional equity or incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes, and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. 28 Table of Contents As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price, our ability to issue additional equity or incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We could lose our status as a partnership for a number of reasons, including not having enough “qualifying income.” If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS has made no determination on our partnership status or any other tax matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, a publicly traded partnership such as us will be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless 90% or more of its gross income from its business activities is “qualifying income” under Section 7704(d) of the Internal Revenue Code. “Qualifying income” includes income and gains derived from the exploration, development, production, processing, transportation, storage and marketing of natural gas and natural gas products or other passive types of income such as interest and dividends. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are treated as a corporation, we could be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject to taxation as an entity if our gross income is not properly classified as qualifying income, there is a change in our business or there is a change in current law. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. If we were subjected to additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to you. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Currently we are subject to income and franchise taxes in several states. Imposition of such taxes on us reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders and may adversely affect the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to additional amounts of entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely affected, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. The IRS has made no determination with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the classification of any of the gross income from our business operations as “qualifying income” under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code, or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with, some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. 29 Table of Contents The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, judicial interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws may have a direct or indirect impact on our status as a partnership and, in some instances, a court’s conclusions may heighten the risk of a challenge regarding our status as a partnership. Moreover, members of Congress have recently considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would have affected certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the “qualifying income” exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although the legislation considered would not have appeared to affect our tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be reconsidered or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes or differing judicial interpretations of existing laws could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to additional entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. You will be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income, which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you receive no cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such common units at a price greater than your tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Due to a number of factors, including our inability to match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, and, if successful, we would be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. 30 Table of Contents We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations. Recently, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. If the IRS were to successfully challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that could result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may successfully challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have constructively terminated as a partner for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same unit will count only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders receiving two Schedules K-1) for one calendar year. Our termination could also result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a relief procedure whereby the IRS may allow a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax years in which the termination occurs. 31 Table of Contents As a result of investing in our common units, you may become subject to international, state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including international, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own or acquire property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file international, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We conduct business and/or own assets in the states of Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, New York, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wyoming. Each of these states, other than Texas, South Dakota and Wyoming, currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals. A majority of these states impose an income tax on corporations and other entities that may be unitholders. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may conduct business or own assets in additional states that impose a personal income tax or that impose entity level taxes to which certain unitholders could be subject. It is your responsibility to file all U.S. federal, international, state and local tax returns applicable to you in your particular circumstances. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 