Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our future business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our substantial number of consumer loans. Our consumer loans accounted for approximately $202.6 million, or 45.7%, of our total loan portfolio as of September 30, 2009, of which $24.9 million consisted of automobile loans, $172.0 million consisted of personal loans secured by other collateral and $5.7 million consisted of unsecured personal loans. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties. As a result of our large portfolio of consumer loans, it may become necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses, which could hurt our profits. Consumer loans generally entail greater risk than do one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. In addition, $7.8 million of our automobile loans and $151.7 million of our other secured consumer loans were indirect loans originated by or through third parties, which present greater risk than our direct lending products. See the sections titled "Lending Activities - Consumer Lending" and "Asset Quality" included in Item 1 of this report. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience and evaluate economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in the loan portfolio and the refinancing of existing loans can result in completely new portfolios of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 0.44% of net loans, and 33.3% of non-performing loans at September 30, 2009. Our regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of September 30, 2009, we believe that the current allowance reflects probable incurred credit losses in the portfolio. Impairment of Investment Securities, Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets, or Deferred Tax Assets could Require Charges to Earnings, which could Result in a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations. In assessing the impairment of investment securities, management considers the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuers, and the intent and our ability to retain our investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value in the near term. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are assessed for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present. Assessment of goodwill and such other intangible assets could result in circumstances where the applicable intangible asset is deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. Under such circumstances, the intangible asset’s impairment would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period during which such impairment is identified. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. The impact of each of these impairment matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 25 A failure by us to maintain required levels of capital could have a material adverse effect on our business. Banking regulations require us to maintain adequate levels of capital, in order to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities. Furthermore, Citizens Community Federal is required to maintain specific capital levels. If the Bank fails to maintain the required capital levels, Citizens Community Federal could be subject to various sanctions by federal regulators that could adversely impact us. Such sanctions could potentially include, without limitation, the termination of deposit insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, limitations on the Bank's ability to pay dividends to us and the issuance of a capital directive by a federal regulatory authority requiring an increase in capital. Our ability and the ability of the Bank to raise additional capital, if needed, may be impaired by changes and trends in the capital markets that are outside our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital, if needed on terms acceptable to us. Rising interest rates may hurt our profits. To be profitable we have to earn more interest on our loans and investments than we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Overall, interest rates generally have decreased in fiscal 2009 and 2008. If interest rates begin to rise again, our net interest income and the value of our assets could be reduced if interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments. This is most likely to occur if short-term interest rates increase at a faster rate than long-term interest rates, which would cause income to go down. In addition, rising interest rates may hurt our income, because they may reduce the demand for loans and the value of our securities. A flat yield curve also may hurt our income, because it would reduce our ability to reinvest proceeds from loan and investment repayments at higher rates. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in the Annual Report, attached hereto as Exhibit 13. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted as borrowers' ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing our loans decreases. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates that cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. In addition, we have a significant amount of real estate loans. Accordingly, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of collateral securing our loans. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans. These factors could expose us to an increased risk of loan defaults and losses and have an adverse impact on our earnings. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be affected adversely by negative examination results and changes in laws and regulations. Citizens Community Federal is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, our chartering authority, and by the FDIC, the insurer of our deposits. Citizens Community Bancorp, Inc. is subject to regulation and supervision by the OTS. This regulation and supervision governs the activities in which we may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance fund administered by the FDIC and our depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in this regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations and profitability. As described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in the Annual Report, attached hereto as Exhibit 13, each of Citizens Community Bancorp, Inc. and Citizens Community Federal are subject to a Memorandum of Understanding with the OTS, which contains certain restrictions on our operations. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. 26 Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources and broader lending authority than we have, greater name recognition and market presence, which benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. Our business is geographically concentrated in Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan and a downturn in economic conditions in these states could reduce our profits. Most of our loans are to individuals located in Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan. Any decline in the economy of these states could have an adverse impact on our earnings. Decreases in local real estate values in these regions could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Adverse changes in the local economies of these regions also may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. Negative developments beginning in the latter half of 2007 in the sub-prime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans, together with volatility in oil prices and other factors, have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn, which have continued in 2009. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits or borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. As a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. This increased government action may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We also may be required to pay even higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. We do not believe these difficult conditions are likely to improve significantly in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market and economic conditions on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market. As a result, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support the growth of our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may elect to raise additional capital for other reasons. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities or otherwise elect to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock, which could dilute your ownership interest in the Company. 27 Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed or on terms acceptable to us, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The trading price of shares of our common stock fluctuates and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: ● the timing of our announcements or those of our competitors concerning significant product developments, acquisitions or financial performance; ● fluctuation in our quarterly operating results; ● substantial sales of our common stock; ● general stock market conditions; or ● other economic or external factors. You may be unable to sell your stock at or above your purchase price. Our shares of common stock are thinly traded and our stock price may be more volatile. Because our common stock is thinly traded, its market price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market in general or the stock prices of similar companies, which are exchanged, listed or quoted on NASDAQ. We believe there are 4,246,074 shares of our common stock held by nonaffiliates as of December 29, 2009. Thus, our common stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and as a result, the trading prices for our shares of common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 