ITEM 1A: Risk Factors Factors that May Affect Results Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses, we expect to continue to incur losses and we may never achieve profitability. We have incurred significant losses in each fiscal year since our inception, including net loss from continuing operations of $20.3 million, $19.8 million and $23.1 million for the years ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 respectively. Our accumulated deficit as of March 31, 2008 was $90.8 million. We have yet to demonstrate that we can generate sufficient sales of our products to become profitable. The extent of our future operating losses and the timing of profitability are highly uncertain, and we may never achieve profitability. Even if we do generate significant revenues from our product sales, we expect that increased operating expenses will result in significant operating losses in the near term as we, among other things: • conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials on our products and product candidates; • seek FDA clearance to market Microcyn as a drug in the United States; 30 Table of Contents • increase our research and development efforts to enhance our existing products, commercialize new products and develop new product candidates; • establish additional and expand existing manufacturing facilities; and • grow our sales and marketing capabilities in the United States and internationally. As a result of these activities, we will need to generate significant revenue in order to achieve profitability and may never become profitable. Without raising additional capital, we would curtail certain operational activities, including regulatory trials, in order to reduce costs. We cannot provide any assurance that we will secure any commitments for new financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Because all of our products are based on our Microcyn platform technology, we will need to generate sufficient revenues from the sale of Microcyn to execute our business plan. All of our products are based on our Microcyn platform technology, and we do not have any non-Microcyn product candidates that will generate revenues in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we expect to derive substantially all of our future revenues from sales of our current Microcyn products. We have been selling our products since July 2004, and substantially all of our historical product revenues have been from sales of Microcyn in Mexico prior to 2007. Although we began selling in Europe in October 2004, in the United States in June 2005, and in India in July 2006, our product revenues outside of Mexico were not significant prior to fiscal year 2007. For example, product revenues from countries outside of Mexico were just 9% of our product revenues for the year ended March 31, 2006. However, for the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, the percentage of product revenues from outside of Mexico increased to 26% and 32%, respectively. Microcyn has not been adopted as a standard of care for wound treatment in any country and may not gain acceptance among physicians, nurses, patients, third-party payors and the medical community. Existing protocols for wound care are well established within the medical community and tend to vary geographically, and healthcare providers may be reluctant to alter their protocols to include the use of Microcyn. If Microcyn does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we will not generate sufficient revenues to become profitable. We recently decreased our sales and marketing activities in Europe and Mexico, which could materially affect our revenues in the geographic areas in the future. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future may cause us to curtail certain operational activities, including regulatory trials, sales and marketing, and international operations, in order to reduce costs and sustain the business, and would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we work to conduct regulatory trials, commercialize our products and expand our infrastructure. We have entered into debt financing arrangements which are secured by all of our assets. We may need to raise additional capital to, among other things: • fund our clinical trials and preclinical studies; • sustain commercialization of our current products or new products; • expand our manufacturing capabilities; • increase our sales and marketing efforts to drive market adoption and address competitive developments; • acquire or license technologies; and • finance capital expenditures and our general and administrative expenses. Our present and future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the progress and timing of our clinical trials; • the level of research and development investment required to maintain and improve our technology position; 31 Table of Contents • cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • our efforts to acquire or license complementary technologies or acquire complementary businesses; • changes in product development plans needed to address any difficulties in commercialization; • competing technological and market developments; and • changes in regulatory policies or laws that affect our operations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to our stockholders could result. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. A failure to obtain adequate funds may cause us to curtail certain operational activities, including regulatory trials, sales and marketing, and international operations, in order to reduce costs and sustain the business, and would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We do not have the necessary regulatory approvals to market Microcyn as a drug in the United States. We have obtained three 510(k) clearances in the United States that permit us to sell Microcyn as a medical device to clean, moisten and debride wounds. However, we do not have the necessary regulatory approvals to market Microcyn in the United States as a drug, which we will need to obtain in order to execute our business plan. Before we are permitted to sell Microcyn as a drug in the United States, we must, among other things, successfully complete additional preclinical studies and well-controlled clinical trials, submit a New Drug Application, or NDA, to the FDA and obtain FDA approval. In July 2006, we completed a controlled clinical trial for pre-operative skin preparation. After completion of this trial, the FDA advised us that it is considering adopting new heightened performance requirements for evaluating efficacy of products designed to be used in pre-operative skin preparation such as ours. In discussions with the FDA, the FDA has not provided us with the definitive timing for, or parameters of, any such requirements, and has informally stated that it is uncertain during what time frame it will be able to do so. We plan to continue our discussions with the FDA regarding the possible timing and parameters of any new guidelines for evaluating efficacy for pre-operative skin preparations. Depending on the ultimate position of the FDA regarding performance criteria for pre-operative skin preparations, we may reassess our priorities, clinical timelines and schedules for pursuing a pre-operative skin preparation indication or may decide not to pursue this indication. We also intend to seek FDA approval for the use of Microcyn to treat infections in wounds. We have sponsored the majority of physicians performing physician clinical studies of Microcyn and in some cases, the physicians who performed these studies also hold equity in our company. The physician clinical studies were performed in the United States, Mexico, Europe, Pakistan, India and China, and used various endpoints, methods and controls. These studies were not intended to be rigorously designed or controlled clinical trials and, as such, did not have all of the controls required for clinical trials used to support an NDA submission to the FDA in that they did not include blinding, randomization, predefined clinical endpoints, use of placebo and active control groups or U.S. good clinical practice requirements. Consequently, the results of these physician clinical studies may not be used by us to support an NDA submission for Microcyn to the FDA. In addition, any results obtained from clinical trials designed to support an NDA submission for Microcyn to the FDA may not be as favorable as results from such physician clinical studies and otherwise may not be sufficient to support an NDA submission or FDA approval of any Microcyn NDA. The FDA approval process is expensive and uncertain, requires detailed and comprehensive scientific and other data and generally takes several years. Despite the time and expense exerted, approval is never guaranteed. We do not know whether we will obtain favorable results in our preclinical and clinical studies or whether we will obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to market Microcyn as a drug in the United States. We anticipate that obtaining approval for the use of Microcyn to treat infections in wounds in the United States will take several years. Even if we obtain FDA approval to sell Microcyn as a drug, we may not be able to successfully commercialize Microcyn as a 32 Table of Contents drug in the United States and may never recover the substantial costs we have invested in the development of our Microcyn products. Delays or adverse results in clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate revenue. Clinical trials can be long and expensive, and the outcome of clinical trials is uncertain and subject to delays. It may take several years to complete clinical trials, if at all, and a product candidate may fail at any stage of the clinical trial process. The length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. Interim results of a preclinical study or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in preclinical studies or early clinical trials may not be repeatable in later subsequent clinical trials. The commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted for a variety of reasons, including the following: • insufficient funds to continue our clinical trials; • the FDA requirements for approval, including requirements for testing efficacy or safety, may change; • the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol; • patients do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect; • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms with prospective sites; • delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective site; • third party clinical investigators do not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol and good clinical practices, or the third party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; and • governmental regulations or administrative actions are changed. We do not know whether future clinical trials will demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficiently to result in additional FDA approvals. While a number of physicians have conducted clinical studies assessing the safety and efficacy of Microcyn for various indications, the data from these studies is not sufficient to support approval of Microcyn as a drug in the United States. In addition, further studies and trials could show different results. For example, after an Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, review of our registration filing, including the results of disinfectant efficacy testing conducted by an independent laboratory retained by us, we obtained EPA authorization, or registration, for the distribution and sale of our Microcyn-based product, Cidalcyn, as a hospital grade disinfectant. However, the EPA conducted subsequent tests and informed us that Cidalcyn did not meet efficacy standards when tested against three specific pathogens. In response to this test, we voluntarily recalled samples of the product previously distributed and later entered into a Consent Agreement and Final Order with the EPA, allowing us to amend our EPA registration and pay a $20,800 fine without admitting or denying any wrongdoing. In addition, in an independent physician study of 10 patients in which procedures were not fully delineated, published in February 2007, four patients discontinued treatment with Dermacyn due to pain, and beneficial change in wound microbiology was found in only one of the six remaining patients. In our Phase II trial, one patient reported a burning sensation which physicians indicated was probably attributable to Microcyn. We will be required to conduct additional clinical trials prior to seeking approval of Microcyn for additional indications. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates to the satisfaction of the FDA will prevent our receipt of FDA approval for additional indications and, ultimately, impact commercialization of our products in the United States. If we experience significant delays or adverse results in clinical trials, our financial results and the commercial prospects for products based on Microcyn will be harmed, our costs would increase and our ability to generate revenue would be delayed. The FDA and other regulatory bodies may also change standards and acceptable trial procedures required for a showing of safety and efficacy. For example, until recently, the FDA accepted non-inferiority clinical trials, or clinical trials that show that a new treatment is equivalent to standard treatment, as the standard for anti-infective drug approvals. On October 12, 2007, the FDA released draft guidance entitled Antibacterial Drug Products: Use of 33 Table of Contents Noninferiority Studies to Support Approval. This new agency guidance requires either placebo-controlled or superiority trial designs, which are designed to test whether, and to what extent, a new treatment is better than the placebo. The uncertainty of clinical trial protocols and changes within FDA guidelines could have a negative impact on the timelines and milestones for our clinical program. If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, additional regulatory clearances or approvals to market our current or future products, we may be unable to commercialize these products. Developing, testing, manufacturing, marketing and selling of medical technology products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. The process of obtaining regulatory clearance and approval of medical technology products is costly and time consuming. Even though the underlying product formulation may be the same or similar, our products are subject to different regulations and approval processes depending upon their intended use. In the United States, use of Microcyn to cleanse and debride a wound comes within the medical device regulation framework, while use of Microcyn to treat infections in wounds will require us to seek FDA approval of Microcyn as a drug in the United States. To obtain regulatory approval of our products as drugs in the United States, we must first show that our products are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical studies (laboratory and animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). The FDA generally clears marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) pre-market clearance process if it is demonstrated that the new product has the same intended use and the same or similar technological characteristics as another legally marketed Class II device, such as a device already cleared by the FDA through the 510(k) premarket notification process, and otherwise meets the FDA’s requirements. Product modifications, including labeling the product for a new intended use, may require the submission of a new 510(k) clearance and FDA approval before the modified product can be marketed. We do not know whether our products based on Microcyn will receive approval from the FDA as a drug. The data from clinical studies of Microcyn conducted by physicians to date will not satisfy the FDA’s regulatory criteria for approval of an NDA. In order for us to seek approval for the use of Microcyn as a drug in the treatment of infections in wounds, we will be required to conduct additional preclinical and clinical trials and submit applications for approval to the FDA. For example, we recently concluded a Phase II study and are planning to conduct a pilot study of Microcyn for the treatment of wound infections. We will need to conduct additional non-clinical and well-controlled clinical trials in order to generate data to support FDA approval of Microcyn for this indication. The outcomes of clinical trials are inherently uncertain. In addition, we do not know whether the necessary approvals or clearances will be granted or delayed for future products. The FDA could request additional information, changes to formulation or clinical testing that could adversely affect the time to market and sale of products as drugs. If we do not obtain the requisite regulatory clearances and approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our products as drugs or devices and may never recover any of the substantial costs we have invested in the development of Microcyn. Distribution of our products outside the United States is subject to extensive government regulation. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance to market, the time required for regulatory review and the sanctions imposed for violations, vary from country to country. We do not know whether we will obtain regulatory approvals in such countries or that we will not be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining these regulatory approvals. In addition, the export by us of certain of our products that have not yet been cleared for domestic commercial distribution may be subject to FDA export restrictions. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the restriction, suspension or revocation of existing approvals or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents If our products do not gain market acceptance, our business will suffer because we might not be able to fund future operations. A number of factors may affect the market acceptance of our products or any other products we develop or acquire, including, among others: • the price of our products relative to other treatments for the same or similar treatments; • the perception by patients, physicians and other members of the health care community of the effectiveness and safety of our products for their indicated applications and treatments; • our ability to fund our sales and marketing efforts; and • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. If our products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations, including developing, testing and obtaining regulatory approval for new product candidates and expanding our sales and marketing efforts for our approved products, which would cause our business to suffer. We plan to change the brand name of our product in Mexico, which may result in the loss of any brand recognition that we have established with users of our products. In accordance with the settlement of a trademark infringement lawsuit filed against us in Mexico, we have agreed to change the name under which we market our products in Mexico. We have marketed our products in Mexico under the brand name of Microcyn60 since 2004. During the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, the percentage of our product revenues derived from Mexico was 75% and 68%, respectively. As a result of our agreement to change our product name, we may lose the benefit of the brand name recognition we have generated in the region and our product sales in Mexico could decline. In locations where we have distributed our products, we believe that the brand names of those products have developed name recognition among consumers who purchase them. Any change to the brand name of our other products may cause us to lose such name recognition, which may lead to confusion in the marketplace and a decline in sales of our products. We cannot assure you that the reserve we have taken will be sufficient to offset the losses we may incur as a result of changing our brand name. If our competitors develop products similar to Microcyn, we may need to modify or alter our business strategy, which may delay the achievement of our goals. Competitors may develop products with similar characteristics as Microcyn. Such similar products marketed by larger competitors can hinder our efforts to penetrate the market. As a result, we may be forced to modify or alter our business and regulatory strategy and sales and marketing plans, as a response to changes in the market, competition and technology limitations, among others. Such modifications may pose additional delays in achieving our goals. We intend to license or collaborate with third parties in various potential markets, and events involving these strategic partners or any future collaborations could delay or prevent us from developing or commercializing products. Our business strategy and our short- and long-term operating results will depend in part on our ability to execute on existing strategic collaborations and to license or partner with new strategic partners. We believe collaborations allow us to leverage our resources and technologies and to access markets that are compatible with our own core areas of expertise while avoiding the cost of establishing or maintaining a direct sales force in each market. We may incur significant costs in the use of third parties to identify and assist in establishing relationships with potential collaborators. To penetrate our target markets, we may need to enter into additional collaborative agreements to assist in the development and commercialization of products. For example, depending upon our analysis of the time and expense involved in obtaining FDA approval to sell a product to treat open wounds, we may choose to license our technology to a third party as opposed to pursuing commercialization ourselves. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their 35 Table of Contents assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position and our internal capabilities. Our discussions with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of new collaborations on favorable terms and may have the potential to provide collaborators with access to our key intellectual property filings and next generation formations. We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our current collaborators or any future collaborators devote to our collaborations or potential products. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, our collaborators may not develop or commercialize products that arise out of our collaborative arrangements or devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. By entering into a collaboration, we may preclude opportunities to collaborate with other third parties who do not wish to associate with our existing third party strategic partners. Moreover, in the event of termination of a collaboration agreement, termination negotiations may result in less favorable terms. If we are unable to expand our direct domestic sales force, we may not be able to successfully sell our products in the United States. We have very limited commercialization capability and make Microcyn-based products available primarily through our website, and several regional distributors. We plan for a more aggressive commercialization and product launch in the event we obtain drug approval from the FDA or obtain other clearance or approval with would healing claims. Developing a sales force is expensive and time consuming, and the lack of qualified sales personnel could delay or limit the success of our product launch. Our domestic sales force, if established, will be competing with the sales operations of our competitors, which are better funded and more experienced. We may not be able to develop domestic sales capacity on a timely basis or at all. Our dependence on distributors for sales could limit or prevent us from selling our products and from realizing long-term revenue growth. We currently depend on distributors to sell Microcyn in the United States, Europe and other countries and intend to continue to sell our products primarily through distributors in Europe and the United States for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to expand our direct sales force, we will continue to rely on distributors to sell Microcyn. Our existing distribution agreements are generally short-term in duration, and we may need to pursue alternate distributors if the other parties to these agreements terminate or elect not to renew their agreements. If we are unable to retain our current distributors for any reason, we must replace them with alternate distributors experienced in supplying the wound care market, which could be time-consuming and divert management’s attention from other operational matters. In addition, we will need to attract additional distributors to expand the geographic areas in which we sell Microcyn. Distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations, which could harm our ability to generate revenues. In addition, some of our distributors may also sell products that compete with ours. In some countries, regulatory licenses must be held by residents of the country. For example, the regulatory approval for one product in India is owned and held by our Indian distributor. If the licenses are not in our name or under our control, we might not have the power to ensure their ongoing effectiveness and use by us. If current or future distributors do not perform adequately, or we are unable to locate distributors in particular geographic areas, we may not realize long-term revenue growth. We depend on a contract sales force to sell our products in Mexico. We currently depend on a contract sales force to sell Microcyn in Mexico. Our existing agreement is short-term in duration and can be terminated by either party upon 30 days written notice. If we are unable to retain our current agreement for any reason, we may need to build our own internal sales force or find an alternate source for contract sales people. We may be unable to find an alternate source, or the alternate source’s sales force may not generate sufficient revenue. If our current or future contract sales force does not perform adequately, we may not realize long-term revenue growth in Mexico. 36 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Regulatory approvals or clearances that we currently have and that we may receive in the future are subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the products may be marketed, and any future approvals could contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use or we otherwise fail to comply with FDA regulations, we may be subject to regulatory enforcement actions, including a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine or criminal penalties. In addition, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, distribution and record-keeping for approved products are subject to extensive regulation. Our manufacturing facilities, processes and specifications are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA, European and other regulatory authorities and from time to time, we may receive notices of deficiencies from these agencies as a result of such inspections. Our failure to continue to meet regulatory standards or to remedy any deficiencies could result in restrictions being imposed on products or manufacturing processes, fines, suspension or loss of regulatory approvals or clearances, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures or the need to invest substantial resources to comply with various existing and new requirements. In the more egregious cases, criminal sanctions, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with Microcyn, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of our products, and could include voluntary or mandatory recall or withdrawal of products from the market. New government regulations may be enacted and changes in FDA policies and regulations, their interpretation and enforcement, could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. Therefore, we do not know whether we will be able to continue to comply with any regulations or that the costs of such compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we will not be permitted to market our products and our business would suffer. We may experience difficulties in manufacturing Microcyn, which could prevent us from commercializing one or more of our products. The machines used to manufacture our Microcyn-based products are complex, use complicated software and must be monitored by highly trained engineers. Slight deviations anywhere in our manufacturing process, including quality control, labeling and packaging, could lead to a failure to meet the specifications required by the FDA, the EPA, European notified bodies, Mexican regulatory agencies and other foreign regulatory bodies, which may result in lot failures or product recalls. In August 2006, we received a “show cause” letter from the EPA, which stated that, in tests conducted by the EPA, Cidalcyn was found to be ineffective in killing specified pathogens when used according to label directions. We gathered records for review to determine if there might have been any problems in production of the lot tested by the EPA. If we are unable to obtain quality internal and external components, mechanical and electrical parts, if our software contains defects or is corrupted, or if we are unable to attract and retain qualified technicians to manufacture our products, our manufacturing output of Microcyn, or any other product candidate based on our platform that we may develop, could fail to meet required standards, our regulatory approvals could be delayed, denied or revoked, and commercialization of one or more of our Microcyn-based products may be delayed or foregone. Manufacturing processes that are used to produce the smaller quantities of Microcyn needed for clinical tests and current commercial sales may not be successfully scaled up to allow production of significant commercial quantities. Any failure to manufacture our products to required standards on a commercial scale could result in reduced revenues, delays in generating revenue and increased costs. Our competitive position depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technologies. Our ability to compete and to achieve and maintain profitability depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. We currently rely on a combination of patents, patent applications, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements, license agreements and invention assignment 37 Table of Contents agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. We also rely upon unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. These measures may not be adequate to safeguard our Microcyn technology. In addition, we granted a security interest in our assets, including our intellectual property if our unrestricted cash reserves drop below the average of our expenses over a six-month period, under a loan and security agreement. If we do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. Although we have filed U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our Microcyn based products, the manufacturing technology for making the products, and their uses, only one U.S. patent has been issued from these applications to date. Our pending patent applications and any patent applications we may file in the future may not result in issued patents, and we do not know whether any of our in-licensed patents or any additional patents that might ultimately be issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or foreign regulatory body will protect our Microcyn technology. Any claims that issue may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing substitutes and may be infringed, designed around, or invalidated by third parties. Even issued patents may later be found to be invalid, or may be modified or revoked in proceedings instituted by third parties before various patent offices or in courts. For example, a competitor filed a Notice of Opposition with the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office in February 2008 opposing our recently issued European patent. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is more uncertain in part because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights, and we will not be able to ensure that: • we were the first to invent the inventions described in patent applications; • we were the first to file patent applications for inventions; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our products without infringing our intellectual property rights; • any patents licensed or issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantages; • we will develop proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. The policies we use to protect our trade secrets may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our trade secrets by others. In addition, confidentiality and invention assignment agreements executed by our employees, consultants and advisors may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosures. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation and use of our intellectual property in the United States, or in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. For example, one of our former contract partners, Nofil Corporation, whom we relied upon to manufacture our proprietary machines had access to our proprietary information and we believe undertook the development and manufacture of the machines to be sold to third parties in violation of our agreement with such company. We brought a claim against Nofil Corporation in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, and an order granting our motion to dismiss Nofil’s cross-complaint was granted in November 2007. We believe that a former officer of our Mexico subsidiary collaborated in these acts, misappropriated our trade secrets, and is currently selling products in Mexico that are competitive with our products. In addition, we believe that, through the licensor of the patents that we in-license and who has also assigned patents to us, a company in Japan obtained one of our patent applications, translated it into Hangul and filed it under such company’s and the licensor’s name in South Korea. These and any other leaks of confidential data into the public domain or to third parties could allow our competitors to learn our trade secrets. 38 Table of Contents We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming, costly to defend and could result in our loss of significant rights and, in the case of patent infringement claims, the assessment of treble damages. On occasion, we may receive notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. We may have disputes regarding intellectual property rights with the parties that have licensed those rights to us. For example, in June 2006, we received written notice from Coherent Technologies, the licensor of exclusive licenses to six issued Japanese patents and five Japanese published pending patent applications, advising us that our patent license from Coherent Technologies was terminated, citing various reasons with which we disagree. Since that time, we have engaged in discussions with Coherent Technologies concerning the license agreement and our continued business relationship. Although we do not believe Coherent Technologies has grounds to terminate the license, we may have to take legal action to preserve our rights under the license and to enjoin Coherent Technologies from breaching its terms. Some claims received from third parties may lead to litigation. We cannot predict whether we will prevail in these actions, or that other actions alleging misappropriation or misuse by us of third-party trade secrets, infringement by us of third-party patents and trademarks or the validity of our patents, will not be asserted or prosecuted against us. We may also initiate claims to defend our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation, regardless of outcome, is expensive and time-consuming, could divert management’s attention from our business and have a material negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, the outcome of such litigation may be unpredictable. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we were to be found to have willfully infringed a third party’s patent) to the party claiming infringement, develop non-infringing technology, stop selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or commercially practical terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business. In addition, modifying our products to exclude infringing technologies could require us to seek re-approval or clearance from various regulatory bodies for our products, which would be costly and time consuming. Also, we may be unaware of pending patent applications that relate to our technology. Parties making infringement claims on future issued patents may be able to obtain an injunction that would prevent us from selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could harm our business. In September 2005, a complaint was filed against us in Mexico claiming trademark infringement with respect to our Microcyn60 mark. To settle this claim we have changed the name under which we market our products in Mexico. A second unrelated claim was filed against us in Mexico in May 2006, claiming trademark infringement with respect to our Microcyn60 mark in Mexico. We are in discussions with the claimant to settle the matter. In addition to the infringement claims in Mexico, we are currently involved in several pending trademark opposition proceedings in connection with our applications to register the marks Microcyn, Oculus Microcyn and Dermacyn in the European Union, Argentina, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Paraguay. If we are unable to settle these disputes or prevail in these opposition proceedings, we will not be able to obtain registrations for the Microcyn, Oculus Microcyn and Dermacyn marks in those countries, which may impair our ability to enforce our trademark rights against infringers in those countries. We cannot rule out the possibility that any of these opposing parties will also file a trademark infringement lawsuit seeking to prevent our use and seek monetary damages based on our use of the Microcyn, Oculus Microcyn and Dermacyn marks in the European Union, Argentina, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Paraguay. We have also entered into agreements with third parties to settle trademark opposition proceedings in which we have agreed to certain restrictions on our use and registration of certain marks. In March 2006, we entered into an agreement with an opposing party that places restrictions on the manner in which we can use and register our Microcyn and Microcyn60 marks in countries where the opposing party has superior rights, including in Europe and Singapore. These restrictions include always using Microcyn along with the word “technology” and another distinctive trademark such as Cidalcyn, Dermacyn and Vetericyn. In addition, we have entered into an agreement with an opposing party in which we agreed to limit our use and registration of the Microcyn mark in Uruguay to disinfectant, antiseptic and sterilizing agents. Moreover, we have entered into an agreement with an opposing party 39 Table of Contents in Europe in which we agreed to specifically exclude ophthalmologic products for our Oculus Microcyn application in the European Union. Our ability to generate revenue will be diminished if we are unable to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement from third-party payors of healthcare costs. The continuing efforts of governmental and other third-party payors, including managed care organizations such as health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenue and profitability, and the future revenue and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative or license partners and the availability of capital. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the United States, governmental and private payors have limited the growth of health care costs through price regulation or controls, competitive pricing programs and drug rebate programs. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our Microcyn products and related treatment are obtained from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs. There is significant uncertainty concerning third-party coverage and reimbursement of newly approved medical products and drugs. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed healthcare in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, as well as legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. The cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. In addition, given ongoing federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the United States Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid payment systems. While we cannot predict whether any proposed cost-containment measures will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could reduce the price that we receive for our Microcyn products in the future. We could be required to indemnify third parties for alleged infringement, which could cause us to incur significant costs. Some of our distribution agreements contain commitments to indemnify our distributors against liability arising from infringement of third party intellectual property such as patents. We may be required to indemnify our customers for claims made against them or license fees they are required to pay. If we are forced to indemnify for claims or to pay license fees, our business and financial condition could be substantially harmed. A significant part of our business is conducted outside of the United States, exposing us to additional risks that may not exist in the United States, which in turn could cause our business and operating results to suffer. We have international operations in Mexico and Europe. During the years ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 70%, 78% and 72%, of our total revenues were generated from sales outside of the United States. Our business is highly regulated for the use, marketing and manufacturing of our Microcyn products both domestically and internationally. Our international operations are subject to risks, including: • local political or economic instability; • changes in governmental regulation; • changes in import/export duties; • trade restrictions; • lack of experience in foreign markets; 40 Table of Contents • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing operations in certain foreign countries; • work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivables on a timely basis or at all; and • adverse tax consequences or overlapping tax structures. We plan to continue to market and sell our products internationally to respond to customer requirements and market opportunities. We currently have international manufacturing facilities in Mexico and the Netherlands. Establishing operations in any foreign country or region presents risks such as those described above as well as risks specific to the particular country or region. In addition, until a payment history is established over time with customers in a new geography or region, the likelihood of collecting receivables generated by such operations could be less than our expectations. As a result, there is a greater risk that reserves set with respect to the collection of such receivables may be inadequate. If our operations in any foreign country are unsuccessful, we could incur significant losses and we may not achieve profitability. In addition, changes in policies or laws of the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, changes in regulations and the approval process, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on fund transfers or the expropriation of private enterprises, could reduce the anticipated benefits of our international expansion. If we fail to realize the anticipated revenue growth of our future international operations, our business and operating results could suffer. Our sales in international markets subject us to foreign currency exchange and other risks and costs which could harm our business. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from outside the United States; primarily from Mexico. We anticipate that revenues from international customers will continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Because we generate revenues in foreign currencies, we are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations. The functional currency of our Mexican subsidiary is the Mexican Peso, and the functional currency of our subsidiary in the Netherlands is the Euro. For the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars on average exchange rates during the applicable period. If the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Mexican Peso or the Euro, as applicable, the revenues we recognize from sales by our subsidiaries will be adversely impacted. Foreign exchange gains or losses as a result of exchange rate fluctuations in any given period could harm our operating results and negatively impact our revenues. Additionally, if the effective price of our products were to increase as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, demand for our products could decline and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The loss of key members of our senior management team, one of our directors or our inability to retain highly skilled scientists, technicians and salespeople could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our executive management team, including Hojabr Alimi, our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board of directors, and Robert Northey, our Director of Research and Development. The efforts of these people will be critical to us as we continue to develop our products and attempt to commercialize products in the chronic and acute wound care market. If we were to lose one or more of these individuals, we may experience difficulties in competing effectively, developing our technologies and implementing our business strategies. Our research and development programs depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists and technicians. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified scientists and technicians in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among medical technology businesses, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area. We also face competition from universities and public and private research institutions in recruiting and retaining highly qualified personnel. In addition, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain salespeople with extensive experience in wound care and close relationships with the medical community, including physicians and other medical staff. We may have difficulties locating, recruiting or retaining qualified salespeople, which could cause a delay or decline in the rate of adoption of our products. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary 41 Table of Contents personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to support our research, development and sales programs. We maintain key-person life insurance only on Mr. Alimi. We may discontinue this insurance in the future, it may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or, if continued, it may prove inadequate to compensate us for the loss of Mr. Alimi’s services. We may be unable to manage our future growth effectively, which would make it difficult to execute our business strategy. We may experience periods of rapid growth as we expand our business, which will likely place a significant strain on our limited personnel and other resources. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our commercialization goals. The growth of our business may involve entry into complex business transactions. If we are unable to implement and maintain proper internal controls and recognize in advance the consequences that may arise out of complex business transactions, we may not obtain the intended benefits of such transactions, and we could be subject to adverse consequences, including being subject to fines and penalties. In the past, we entered into a series of agreements with Quimica Pasteur, or OP, a Mexico-based distributor of pharmaceutical products to hospitals and health care entities owned or operated by the Mexican Ministry of Health, or MOH. The consequences of these agreements showed us that we needed to better plan for complex transactions and the applications of complex accounting principals relating to those transactions and to better identify potentially improper practices. As a result of these agreements, we were required to consolidate OP’s operations with our financial results for a portion of our year ended March 31, 2006. In connection with our audit of OP’s financial statements in late 2005, we were made aware of a number of facts that suggested that OP or its principals may have engaged in some form of tax avoidance practices in Mexico prior to the execution of the agreements between our company and OP, and we did not discover these facts prior to our execution of these agreements or for several months thereafter. Although we do not believe that we are responsible for any tax avoidance practices of OP’s principals prior to June 16, 2005, the Mexican taxing authority could make a claim against us or our Mexican subsidiary. We have been informed by counsel in Mexico that the statute of limitations including for action for fraud, is five years from March 31, 2006. If we are unable to implement and maintain adequate internal controls, we could be subject to fines and penalties. Furthermore, we conduct business in a number of geographic regions and are seeking to expand to other regions. We have not established a physical presence in many of the international regions in which we conduct or plan to conduct business, but rather we manage our business from our headquarters in Northern California. As a result, we conduct business at all times of the day and night with limited personnel. If we fail to appropriately target and increase our presence in these geographic regions, we may not be able to effectively market and sell our Microcyn products in these locations or we may not meet our customers’ needs in a timely manner, which could negatively affect our operating results. Future growth will also impose significant added responsibilities on management, including the need to identify, recruit, train and integrate additional employees. In addition, rapid and significant growth will place strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure, including sales and marketing and clinical and regulatory personnel. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, it may be difficult for us to execute our business strategy. The wound care industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are less expensive or more effective than any products that we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to stay at the forefront of technological change and maintain a competitive position. We compete with large healthcare, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, along with smaller or early-stage companies that have collaborative arrangements with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, 42 Table of Contents manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Our competitors may: • develop and patent processes or products earlier than we will; • develop and commercialize products that are less expensive or more efficient than any products that we may develop; • obtain regulatory approvals for competing products more rapidly than we will; and • improve upon existing technological approaches or develop new or different approaches that render our technology or products obsolete or non-competitive. As a result, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any future products. The success of our research and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. If we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. An important element of our business strategy will be to enter into collaborative or license arrangements under which we license our Microcyn technology to other parties for development and commercialization. We expect that while we may initially seek to conduct initial clinical trials on our drug candidates, we may need to seek collaborators for a number of our potential products because of the expense, effort and expertise required to conduct additional clinical trials and further develop those potential products candidates. Because collaboration arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. If we need third party assistance in identifying and negotiating one or more acceptable arrangements, it might be costly. Also, we may not have products that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a potential product because the party interested in it is a competitor. The terms of any arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. Alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. If we are not able to establish collaborative agreements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize new products, which would adversely affect our business and our revenues. In order for any of these collaboration or license arrangements to be successful, we must first identify potential collaborators or licensees whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. We may rely on these arrangements for, not only financial resources, but also for expertise or economies of scale that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for licenses to technology rights. However, it is likely that we will not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or potential products. If our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected, or do not devote adequate resources to the program, the relationship will not be successful. If a business combination involving a collaborator or licensee and a third party were to occur, the effect could be to diminish, terminate or cause delays in development of a potential product. We may acquire other businesses or form joint ventures that could harm our operating results, dilute current stockholders’ ownership of us, increase our debt or cause us to incur significant expense. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and assets, as well as technology licensing arrangements. We also intend to pursue strategic alliances that leverage our core technology and industry experience to expand our product offerings or distribution. We have no experience with respect to acquiring other companies and limited experience with respect to the formation of collaborations, strategic alliances and joint ventures. If we make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities. Any future acquisitions by us also could result in significant write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. Integration of an acquired company also may require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. We may not identify or complete these transactions 43 Table of Contents in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, technology license, strategic alliance or joint venture. To finance any acquisitions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which would dilute current stockholders’ ownership interest in us. If the price of our common stock is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other companies for stock. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds for acquisitions through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to comply with broad and complex federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including state and federal anti-kickback laws, we could face substantial penalties and our products could be excluded from government healthcare programs. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, which include, among other things, “anti-kickback” laws that prohibit payments to induce the referral of products and services, and “false claims” statutes that prohibit the fraudulent billing of federal healthcare programs. Our operations are subject to the federal anti-kickback statute, a criminal statute that, subject to certain statutory exceptions, prohibits any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward a person either (i) for referring an individual for the furnishing of items or services for which payment may be made in whole or in part by a government healthcare program such as Medicare or Medicaid, or (ii) for purchasing, leasing, or ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchasing, leasing or ordering of an item or service for which payment may be made under a government healthcare program. Because of the breadth of the federal anti-kickback statute, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or the OIG, was authorized to adopt regulations setting forth additional exceptions to the prohibitions of the statute commonly known as “safe harbors.” If all of the elements of an applicable safe harbor are fully satisfied, an arrangement will not be subject to prosecution under the federal anti-kickback statute. We previously had agreements to pay compensation to our advisory board members and physicians who conducted clinical trials or provided other services for us. The agreements may be subject to challenge to the extent they do not fall within relevant safe harbors under federal and similar state anti-kickback laws. If our past or present operations, including, but not limited to, our consulting arrangements with our advisory board members or physicians conducting clinical trials on our behalf, or our promotional or discount programs, are found to be in violation of these laws, we or our officers may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from government healthcare program participation, including Medicare and Medicaid. In addition, if there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations of these laws, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or regulation has been violated. The frequency of suits to enforce these laws have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that a healthcare company will have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid or other federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. We cannot assure you that we will not become subject to such litigation. Any violations of these laws, or any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could harm our reputation, be costly to defend and divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business. Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to have violated abuse laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. Our efforts to discover and develop potential products may not lead to the discovery, development, commercialization or marketing of actual drug products. We are currently engaged in a number of different approaches to discover and develop new product applications and product candidates. At the present time, we have one Microcyn-based drug candidate in clinical 44 Table of Contents trials. We also have a non-Microcyn-based compound in the research and development phase. We believe this compound has potential applications in oncology. Discovery and development of potential drug candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. If our efforts do not lead to the discovery of a suitable drug candidate, we may be unable to grow our clinical pipeline or we may be unable to enter into agreements with collaborators who are willing to develop our drug candidates. We must implement additional and expensive finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls to accommodate growth of our business and organization and to satisfy public company reporting requirements, which will increase our costs and require additional management resources. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the Commission, including expanded disclosures and accelerated reporting requirements. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, requires our management to perform an annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent auditors to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls beginning with our fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Compliance with Section 404 and other requirements of doing business as a public company have and will continue to increase our costs and require additional management resources to implement an ongoing program to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls. In the past, we entered into transactions that resulted in accounting consequences that we did not identify at the time of the transactions. As a result, our prior independent auditors informed us that we did not have the appropriate financial management and reporting structure in place to meet the demands of a public company and that our accounting and financial personnel lacked the appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training. In calendar 2006, our current independent auditors recommended certain changes which, in addition to other changes in our financial reporting and management structure, have been implemented at additional cost. We have upgraded our accounting systems, procedures and controls and will need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls as we grow our business and organization, enter into complex business transactions and take actions designed to satisfy reporting requirements. If our management is unable to conclude that our internal controls are adequate, if we are unable to maintain the required Section 404 assessment as was complied with as of our second Annual Report on Form 10-K for which compliance was required and thereafter, our ability to obtain additional financing could be impaired. In addition, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting and in the accuracy of our periodic reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A lack of investor confidence in the reliability and accuracy of our public reporting could cause our stock price to decline. We may not be able to maintain sufficient product liability insurance to cover claims against us. Product liability insurance for the healthcare industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. We may not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or be able to secure increased coverage if the commercialization of our products progresses, nor can we be sure that existing or future claims against us will be covered by our product liability insurance. Moreover, the existing coverage of our insurance policy or any rights of indemnification and contribution that we may have may not be sufficient to offset existing or future claims. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage and not subject to any indemnification or contribution could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our operating results may fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to decrease. Fluctuations in our operating results may lead to fluctuations, including declines, in our share price. Our operating results and our share price may fluctuate from period to period due to a variety of factors, including: • demand by physicians, other medical staff and patients for our Microcyn products; • reimbursement decisions by third-party payors and announcements of those decisions; 45 Table of Contents • clinical trial results and publication of results in peer-reviewed journals or the presentation at medical conferences; • the inclusion or exclusion of our Microcyn products in large clinical trials conducted by others; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • issues in manufacturing our product candidates or products; • new or less expensive products and services or new technology introduced or offered by our competitors or us; • the development and commercialization of product enhancements; • changes in the regulatory environment; • delays in establishing new strategic relationships; • costs associated with collaborations and new product candidates; • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our product candidates or products; • changes in recommendations of securities analysts or lack of analyst coverage; • failure to meet analyst expectations regarding our operating results; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • general market conditions. Variations in the timing of our future revenues and expenses could also cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from period to period and may result in unanticipated earning shortfalls or losses. In addition, the NASDAQ Global Market, in general, and the market for life sciences companies, in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. If an active, liquid trading market for our common stock does not develop, you may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at or above the price you paid for it. Although our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, an active and liquid trading market for our common stock has not yet and may not ever develop or be sustained. You may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at or above the price you paid for our stock if trading in our stock is not active. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. In addition, under our secured loan, we may not pay any dividends without our secured lender’s prior written consent for as long as we have any outstanding obligations to the secured lender. Accordingly, you will have to rely on appreciation in the price of our common stock, if any, to earn a return on your investment in our common stock. Furthermore, we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws and under Delaware law may make it more difficult for stockholders to change our management and may also make a takeover difficult. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that limit the ability of stockholders to change our management and may also enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions include: • the ability of our board of directors to issue and designate the rights of, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of convertible preferred stock, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; 46 Table of Contents • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • advance notice procedures required for stockholders to make nominations of candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before meeting of stockholders. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and cause us to take other corporate actions. In addition, the existence of these provisions, together with Delaware law, might hinder or delay an attempted takeover other than through negotiations with our board of directors. Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution in the value of their investment if we issue additional shares of our capital stock. Our charter allows us to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of our common stock and to issue and designate the rights of, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of convertible preferred stock. In the event we issue additional shares of our capital stock, dilution to our stockholders could result. In addition, if we issue and designate a class of convertible preferred stock, these securities may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. ITEM 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 