Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our Company. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Emergence From Bankruptcy Our actual financial results may vary significantly from the projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court. In connection with the Chapter 11 reorganization, we were required to prepare projected financial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court administering the Chapter 11 reorganization, the feasibility of the Amended Plan and the ability of the Debtors 10 Table of Contents to continue operations upon emergence from bankruptcy. As part of the disclosure statement approved by the Bankruptcy Court, the projections reflected numerous assumptions concerning anticipated future performance and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and continue to be beyond our control and that may not materialize. Projections are inherently subject to uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks. Our actual results will vary from those contemplated by the projections for a variety of reasons. The projections have not been incorporated by reference into this report and neither these projections nor any version of the disclosure statement should be considered or relied upon in connection with the purchase of our common stock. Because our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 reflect the impact of fresh start accounting adjustments made upon emergence from bankruptcy, our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 will not be comparable to either prior periods or future periods. Upon our emergence from Chapter 11, we adopted fresh start accounting in accordance with guidance under the applicable reorganization accounting rules, pursuant to which our reorganization value, which represents the fair value of the entity before considering liabilities, and approximates the amount a willing buyer would pay for the assets of the entity immediately after the reorganization, has been allocated to the fair value of assets in conformity with guidance under the applicable accounting rules for business combinations, using the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. The amount remaining after allocation of the reorganization value to the fair value of identified tangible and intangible assets is reflected as goodwill, which is subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. At December 31, 2009, the balances of deferred revenue and deferred directory costs were adjusted to their fair value of zero, which had a significant non-cash impact on our 2010 operating results. As a result, approximately $846 million of deferred revenue ($826 million net of estimated sales allowances) and $213 million of deferred directory costs were not recognized in our 2010 consolidated statement of operations which would have otherwise been recorded by the Predecessor Company. In addition, our 2010 operating results were significantly impacted by the exclusion of approximately $61 million of bad debt expense due to the exclusion of revenue associated with the implementation of fresh start accounting at December 31, 2009 that would have been recognized by our Predecessor Company. These non-cash fresh start adjustments impact only our 2010 consolidated statement of operations and do not affect future years’ results. Likewise, these non-cash fresh start adjustments did not affect cash flows as client billing and collection activities remained unchanged. In addition, at December 31, 2009, the fair values of certain intangible assets were increased in connection with the Company’s adoption of fresh start accounting in the amount of $555 million, resulting in an increase of amortization expense in 2010 of $111 million, which would not have been recorded by the Predecessor Company. Finally, on December 31, 2009, goodwill of $1,707 million was recorded in connection with the Company’s adoption of fresh start accounting. Therefore our future statements of financial position and statements of operations will not be comparable in many respects to our consolidated statements of financial position and consolidated statements of operations for periods prior to our adoption of fresh start accounting and prior to accounting for the effects of the reorganization. The lack of comparable historical information may discourage investors from purchasing our common stock. Additionally, the financial performance included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will not be indicative of future financial performance. We may be subject to claims that were not discharged in the Chapter 11 cases, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. The Company filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on March 31, 2009. The Court confirmed the Company’s Amended Plan on December 22, 2009 and the Company emerged from Chapter 11 on December 31, 2009, the Effective Date of the Amended Plan. The nature of our business occasionally subjects us to litigation. Although the majority of the material claims against us that arose prior to the Petition Date were resolved under the Amended Plan, certain claims unaffected by the Amended Plan, as well as claims related to alleged acts that occurred after the Petition Date, have not been resolved. With few exceptions, all claims that arose prior to the Petition Date and before confirmation of the Amended Plan (i) are subject to compromise and/or treatment under the Amended Plan or (ii) were discharged in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code and the terms of the Amended Plan. The ultimate resolution of such unresolved claims may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and our Financial Condition Since we have renegotiated higher interest rates in exchange for the reduction of our total outstanding debt, our interest expense has increased relative to the amount of outstanding debt. On the Effective Date, the Company entered into the Loan Agreement with certain financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent, providing for the issuance of $2,750 million of senior secured term loans, which were issued on the Effective Date in partial satisfaction of the amounts outstanding under the Company’s pre-petition senior secured credit facility. The new senior secured term loans bear interest at an annual rate equal to, at the Company’s option, either (i) the prime rate (ABR) plus an Applicable Margin, or (ii) adjusted LIBOR plus an Applicable Margin. The Applicable Margin is 7.00% for loans with interest rates determined by reference to the ABR and 8.00% for loans with interest rates determined by reference to adjusted LIBOR. The senior secured term loans have a floor interest rate of 4.0% in the case of ABR and 3.0% in the case of LIBOR. As long as interest rates remain at or below 4.0% for ABR and 3.0% for LIBOR, our minimum effective interest rate will be 11.0%. As a result of the increased interest rates for our secured bank debt, our interest expense has increased relative to the amount of outstanding debt. During 2010, our total debt was reduced from $2,750 million to $2,171 million in senior secured term loan debt as the result of debt repayments. Circumstances may arise which might cause us to conclude that we are overleveraged, which could have significant negative consequences. As of December 31, 2010, we had total indebtedness under our Loan Agreement of approximately $2,171 million. Circumstances may arise which might cause us to conclude that we are overleveraged, which could have significant negative consequences, including: · we may be vulnerable to a downturn in the markets in which we operate or a downturn in the economy in general; · we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate requirements; · we may be vulnerable to or limited in our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate or the entry of new competitors into our markets; · we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, including with respect to implementing effective pricing and promotional programs; and · we may be limited in borrowing additional funds. In addition, our debt bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase above certain specified floors, the interest rate on our variable-rate debt will increase and will create higher debt service requirements, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher debt service requirements, any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the terms of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the terms of our indebtedness. The covenants in the Loan Agreement, as amended, may restrict our flexibility. Such covenants may place restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends and make other payments or investments; sell assets; make capital expenditures; engage in certain mergers and acquisitions; and refinance existing indebtedness. Additionally, there may be factors beyond our control that could affect our ability to meet debt service requirements. Our ability to meet debt service requirements will depend on our future performance and our ability to sustain sales conditions in the markets in which we operate, the economy generally, and other factors that are beyond our control. We can provide no assurance that our businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Moreover, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to make mandatory debt payments or comply with the other provisions of our debt instruments, our lenders will be permitted under certain circumstances to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness owing to them and exercise other remedies provided for in those instruments and under applicable law. 12 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that cash flow from operations will continue to be sufficient to meet our long-term working capital needs. We expect to meet our working capital needs through existing cash balances and cash flow from future operations. However, in the future, we may require additional funds to satisfy our operating expenses and other working capital needs. There can be no assurances that we will have timely access to additional financing sources, or that such access will be on acceptable terms. Furthermore, failure to secure necessary capital could restrict our ability to operate and further develop our business. Our ability to issue debt securities, borrow funds from additional lenders and participate in vendor financing programs is restricted under the terms of the Loan Agreement, as amended. Except for equity offerings used to finance certain investments, half of any net cash proceeds of equity offerings must be used to prepay our obligations under the Loan Agreement, as amended. If we incur additional indebtedness to fund our operations or for any other reason, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are likely to be materially and adversely affected. The terms of our indebtedness impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business. Our Loan Agreement, as amended, contains covenants that, among other things, will place restrictions on our operations and use of cash, including, without limitation, restrictions on our ability to make capital expenditures, acquire or sell businesses and assets, incur additional indebtedness, issue capital stock, create liens, redeem or repurchase debt, enter new lines of business and pay dividends. Events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants. In addition, our Loan Agreement, as amended, requires us to meet a number of financial ratios and tests. Noncompliance with these covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations or capital needs and to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest and may also restrict our ability to expand or pursue our business strategies. We may not be able to comply with all of our covenants and obligations in our debt instruments. Failure to comply with any of these restrictions, including financial covenants, would result in a default under the Loan Agreement, as amended. Our revenue and advertising sales have declined and may continue to decline. Our revenue and advertising sales have continued to decline due to competition from other advertising media and weak economic conditions. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, our advertising sales declined 17.2% and 18.8% compared to the same periods in 2009 and 2008, respectively. We face widespread competition from other print directory publishers and other traditional and new media. This competition may reduce our market share or materially adversely affect our financial performance. The directory advertising industry in the United States is highly competitive. Independent publishers with which we compete include, but are not limited to, Yellowbook (the U.S. business of Yell Group), Valley Yellow Pages and White Directory Publishing Inc. We compete with Yellowbook in the majority of our incumbent markets. The incumbent publishers with which we compete include, but are not limited to, AT&T and Dex One. Some of the incumbent publishers with which we compete are or may become larger than we are and have or may obtain greater financial resources than we have. Although we may have limited market overlap with incumbent publishers, relative to the size of our overall footprint, we may not be able to compete effectively with these publishers for advertising sales in these limited markets. In addition, independent publishers may commit more resources to certain markets than we are able to commit, thus limiting our ability to compete effectively in these areas. We also compete for advertising sales with other traditional media, including newspapers, magazines, radio, direct mail, telemarketing, billboards and television. Many of these competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we have. The market share of these competitors may increase and our market share may decrease. We also compete for advertising sales with other new media. The Internet has become increasingly accessible as an advertising medium for businesses of all sizes. Further, the use of the Internet, including as a means to transact commerce through wireless devices, has resulted in new technologies and services that compete with traditional advertising media. Through Superpages.com and the Superpages.com network, we compete with the Internet yellow pages directories of other publishers, such as Yellowpages.com, as well as other Internet sites that provide classified directory information, such as Citysearch.com. We also compete with search engines and portals, such as Google, Yahoo!, Bing and AT&T, some of which have entered into commercial agreements with us or with other major directory publishers. We may not be able to compete effectively for advertising with these other companies, some of 13 Table of Contents which have greater resources than we do. Our Internet strategy may be adversely affected if major search engines build local sales forces or otherwise begin to more effectively market to small- and medium-sized local businesses. Declining use of print yellow pages directories is adversely affecting our business. Overall references to print yellow pages directories in the United States have declined from 14.5 billion in 2005 to 12 billion in 2009 according to the YPA Industry Usage Study. We believe this decline is primarily attributable to increased use of Internet search providers, as well as the proliferation of very large retail stores for which consumers and businesses may not reference the yellow pages. We believe the decline negatively affected the advertising sales associated with our traditional print business in 2010. Use of our print directories may continue to decline. A significant decline in usage of our print directories could: · impair our ability to maintain or increase advertising prices; and · cause businesses to reduce or discontinue purchasing advertising in our yellow pages directories. Either or both of these factors would adversely affect our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased competition in local telephone markets could reduce the benefits of using the incumbent local exchange carriers brand name. Advances in communications technology (including wireless devices and voice over Internet protocol) and demographic factors (including shifts from wireline telephone communications to wireless or other communications technologies) will erode the market position of telephone service providers. We believe that the use of traditional wireline carriers is declining. We believe the loss of market share by incumbent local exchange carriers in any particular local service area decreases the value of their brand name in those particular local telephone markets. As a result, we may not realize the benefits of our commercial arrangements with the incumbent local exchange carriers. Further transfers of local exchange assets by Verizon could reduce the benefit of using the Verizon brand name. In 2010, Verizon transferred additional exchange assets in 14 states to Frontier, and in 2008, Verizon transferred rural exchange assets in three states to FairPoint. In connection with these transactions, the Company entered into publishing, branding and non-competition agreements with FairPoint and Frontier, respectively, and their affiliates, with terms substantially the same as those contained in the corresponding Verizon agreements. As a result of these transactions, the Company no longer has a license to use the Verizon brand in the sold areas. Instead, per the new branding agreements, FairPoint and Frontier have each granted us a limited right to use their respective trademarks and service marks in connection with publishing print directories in the affected service areas and to serve as the official publisher of FairPoint or Frontier print directories in the respective service areas. Additional transfers by Verizon to third parties would further decrease the scope of the Verizon brand name and thereby potentially diminish our market share in those markets. Our business and financial condition would be adversely affected by a prolonged economic downturn and other external events. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from the sale of advertising. Expenditures by advertising clients are sensitive to economic conditions and tend to decline in a recession or other periods of economic uncertainty. Any additional decline of this type could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the adverse economic conditions currently present in the United States, including decreased levels of business activity across many market segments, decreased advertising demand and limited credit availability. Our total operating revenue in 2010 and 2009 was negatively affected by the economic downturn. A continuation of current economic conditions or other events that could impact purchasing patterns, such as housing market fluctuations or a terrorist attack, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to anticipate or respond effectively to changes in technology and consumer preferences, our competitive position could be harmed. Advances in technology will continue to bring new competitors and distribution channels to the advertising industry. As a result, our growth and future financial performance will depend on our ability to develop and market new advertising offerings and create 14 Table of Contents new distribution channels, while enhancing existing offerings, services and distribution channels to incorporate the latest technological advances and accommodate changing user preferences, including the use of the Internet. We may not be able to timely or successfully adapt our business to these changes in technology. Our reliance on small- and medium-sized businesses exposes us to increased credit risks. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 84% of our advertising revenue is derived from selling advertising to local businesses, which are generally small- and medium-sized businesses. In the ordinary course of our directory operations, we bill most of these clients over the life of the directory. Full collection of delinquent accounts can take many months or may never occur. Small- and medium-sized businesses tend to have fewer financial resources and higher rates of failure than larger businesses, in particular during periods of economic downturn. These factors increase our exposure to delinquent or non-collectible accounts by our clients. Our dependence on third party providers for printing, publishing and distribution services could materially affect us. We depend on third parties to print, publish and distribute our directories. In connection with these services, we rely on the systems and services of our third party service providers, their ability to perform key functions on our behalf in a timely manner and in accordance with agreed levels of service and their ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to perform services on our behalf. There are a limited number of these providers with sufficient scale to meet our needs. A failure in the systems of one of our key third party service providers, or their inability to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts or to retain sufficient qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we were to lose the services of any of our key third party service providers, we would be required either to hire and train sufficient personnel to perform these services or to find an alternative service provider. In some cases it would be impracticable for us to perform these functions, including the printing of our directories. In the event we were required to perform any of the services that we currently outsource, it is unlikely that we would be able to perform them without incurring additional costs. Increases in the price or decreases in the availability of paper could materially adversely affect our costs of operations. Paper is the principal raw material we use to produce our print directories. The paper we use is provided by several different suppliers. Under our agreements with these suppliers, they are obligated to provide up to 100% of the annual forecasted paper requirements in their contracts. The price of paper under these agreements is set each year based on total tonnage by supplier, paper basis weights, production capacity and market price. We do not engage in hedging activities to limit our exposure to increases in paper prices. If we cannot secure access to paper in the necessary amounts or at reasonable prices, or if paper costs increase substantially, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our sales of advertising to national accounts are dependent upon third parties that we do not control. Approximately 16% of our advertising revenue is derived from the sale of advertising to national or large regional companies, including rental car companies, insurance companies and pizza delivery companies. These companies typically purchase advertising in numerous markets. Substantially all of the revenue from these large advertisers is derived through certified marketing representatives (“CMRs”). CMRs are independent third parties that act as agents for national companies and design their advertisements, arrange for the placement of those advertisements in our markets and provide billing services. Our relationships with these national advertisers depend significantly on the performance of the CMRs, which we do not control. If some or all of the CMRs with whom we have existing relationships were unable or unwilling to transact business with us on acceptable terms or at all, this inability or unwillingness could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, any decline in the performance of the CMRs could harm our ability to generate revenue from national accounts and could materially adversely affect our business. We have agreements with several major Internet search engines and portals. The termination of one or more of these agreements could adversely affect our business. We have expanded our Internet distribution by establishing relationships with several other Internet yellow pages directory providers, portals, search engines and individual websites, which make our content easier for search engines to access and provides a greater response to general searches on the Internet. Under the terms of the agreements with these Internet providers, we place our clients’ advertisements on major search engines, which give us access to a higher volume of traffic than we could generate on our own, without relinquishing the client relationship. The search engines benefit from our local sales force and full-service capabilities 15 Table of Contents for attracting and serving advertisers that might not otherwise transact business with search engines. The termination of one or more of our agreements with major search engines could adversely affect our business. Increased regulation regarding information technology could lead to increased costs. As the Internet industry develops, the provision of Internet services and the commercial use of the Internet and Internet-related applications may become subject to greater regulation. Regulation of the Internet and Internet-related services is still developing, both by new laws and government regulation, and also by industry self-regulation. If our regulatory environment becomes more restrictive, including by increased Internet regulation, our profitability could decrease. A portion of our employees are union-represented. Our business could be adversely affected by future labor negotiations and our ability to maintain good relations with our unionized employees. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 1,100, or 25% of our employees, were represented by unions. In addition, the employees of some of our key suppliers are represented by unions. Work stoppages or slow-downs involving our union-represented employees, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations and increase operating costs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The inability to negotiate acceptable terms with the unions could also result in increased operating costs from higher wages or benefits paid to union employees or replacement workers. A greater percentage of our work force could also become represented by unions. If a union decides to strike, and others choose to honor its picket line, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain highly qualified individuals in the businesses in which we operate could materially adversely affect our business operations. We depend on the continued services of key personnel, including our experienced senior management team. Our ability to achieve our operating goals and fully execute the transformation of our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified individuals. We review and adjust our compensation plans on an annual basis to ensure they are competitive with market trends, however, the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Turnover among media consultants could materially adversely affect our business. The loss of a significant number of experienced media consultants would likely result in fewer sales and could materially adversely affect our business. The turnover rate of our media consultants is generally higher than that of our other employees. A majority of the attrition of our media consultants occurs with employees with less than two years experience. We expend substantial resources and management time on identifying and training our media consultants. Our ability to attract and retain qualified sales personnel depends on numerous factors outside of our control, including conditions in the local employment markets in which we operate. A substantial decrease in the number of media consultants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. The loss of important intellectual property rights could adversely affect our results of operations and future prospects. Various trademarks and other intellectual property rights are key to our business. We rely upon a combination of trademark and copyright laws as well as contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We may be required to bring lawsuits against third parties to protect our intellectual property rights. Similarly, we may be party to proceedings by third parties challenging our rights. Lawsuits brought by us may not be successful, or we may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. As the commercial use of the Internet further expands, it may be more difficult to protect our trade names, including Superpages.com, from domain name infringement or to prevent others from using Internet domain names that associate their businesses with ours. In the past, we have received claims of material infringement of intellectual property rights. Related lawsuits, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, the loss of important trademarks or other intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on technology could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most of our business activities rely to a significant degree on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems and those of others. Any failure of existing or future systems could impair our ability to collect, process and store data and perform the day-to-day management of our business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our computer and communications systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources. A natural disaster or other unanticipated problems that lead to the corruption or loss of data at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislative initiatives directed at limiting or restricting the distribution of our print directories or shifting the costs and responsibilities of waste management related to our print directories could adversely affect our business. A number of state and local municipalities are considering legislative initiatives that would limit or restrict our ability to distribute our print directories in the markets we serve. The most restrictive initiatives would prohibit us from distributing our print directories unless residents affirmatively opt to receive our print directories. Other less restrictive initiatives would allow residents to opt out of receiving our print directories. In addition, some states are considering legislative initiatives that would shift the costs and responsibilities of waste management for discarded directories from municipalities to the producers of the directories. If these or other similar initiatives are passed into law, they would increase our costs to distribute our print directories, reduce the number of directories that are distributed, and negatively impact our ability to market our advertising to new and existing clients. Legal actions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. Various lawsuits and other claims typical for a business of our size and nature are pending against us. In addition, from time to time, we receive communications from government or regulatory agencies concerning investigations or allegations of noncompliance with laws or regulations in jurisdictions in which we operate. We do not expect that the ultimate resolution of pending regulatory and legal matters in future periods will have a material effect on our financial condition. Any potential judgments, fines or penalties relating to these matters, however, may have a material effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are recognized. We are also exposed to defamation, breach of privacy and other claims and litigation relating to our business, as well as methods of collection, processing and use of personal data. The subjects of our data and users of data collected and processed by us could also have claims against us if our data were found to be inaccurate, or if personal data stored by us were improperly accessed and disseminated by unauthorized persons. These claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or otherwise distract our management. Risks Related to Agreements with Local Exchange Carriers The loss of any of our key agreements with Verizon, Frontier and FairPoint could have a material adverse effect on our business. We entered into several agreements with Verizon, Frontier and FairPoint, including publishing agreements, branding agreements and non-competition agreements. We believe that acting as the official publisher of directories provides us with a competitive advantage in those markets. Under the branding agreements, we are granted a limited right to use certain trademarks in connection with publishing certain print directories and identify ourselves as the official print directory publisher. Under the non-competition agreements, Verizon, Frontier and FairPoint generally agreed not to publish tangible or digital (excluding Internet) media directories consisting principally of wireline listings and classified advertisements of subscribers in the markets in which we are the directory publisher. Each of these agreements has an initial term of 30 years from the date of the spin-off from Verizon, subject to certain early termination rights. These agreements may be terminated by the local exchange carrier prior to the stated term under specified circumstances, some of which are beyond our reasonable control or could require extraordinary efforts or the incurrence of material excess costs on our part in order to avoid breach of the applicable agreement. Each of these agreements has a cross-default provision, so that a termination under any of the agreements with Verizon, FairPoint or Frontier may result in a partial or complete termination of rights under any of the other agreements with such party. It is possible that these agreements will not remain in place for their full stated term or that we may be unable to avoid all potential breaches or defaults of these agreements. Limitations on our use of brand names could adversely affect our business and profitability. We have entered into brand agreements with Verizon, Frontier and FairPoint. These agreements grant us a limited right to use certain brand names and trademarks in connection with publishing certain print directories and identify ourselves as the official print directory publisher in their markets. Our right to use brand names is subject to our compliance with the terms and conditions of the branding agreement and the publishing agreement. 17 Table of Contents Regulatory obligations requiring incumbent local exchange carriers to publish white pages directories in its incumbent markets may change over time, which may increase our future operating costs. Regulations established by state public utilities commissions typically require incumbent local exchange carriers to publish and distribute white pages directories of certain residences and businesses that order or receive local telephone service from the carriers. These regulations also require an incumbent carrier, in specified cases, to include information relating to the provision of telephone service provided by the incumbent carrier and other carriers in the service area, as well as information relating to local and state governmental agencies. The costs of publishing, printing and distributing the directories are included in our operating expenses. Under the terms of our publishing agreements with Verizon, Frontier and FairPoint, we are required to perform their regulatory obligation to publish white pages directories in the markets in which we are the directory publisher. If any additional legal requirements are imposed with respect to this obligation, we would be obligated to comply with these requirements on behalf of Verizon, Frontier and FairPoint, even if this were to increase our operating costs. Our results of operations relative to competing directory publishers that do not have those obligations could be adversely affected if we were not able to increase our revenue to cover any of these unreimbursed compliance costs. Our inability to enforce the non-competition agreements with Verizon, Frontier and FairPoint may impair the value of our business. We entered into non-competition agreements with Verizon, Frontier and FairPoint pursuant to which they each agreed not to publish tangible or digital (excluding Internet) media directories consisting principally of wireline listings and classified advertisements of subscribers in the markets in which we are the publisher of their directories. However, under applicable law, a covenant not to compete is only enforceable: · to the extent it is necessary to protect a legitimate business interest of the party seeking enforcement; · if it does not unreasonably restrain the party against whom enforcement is sought; and · if it is not contrary to the public interest. Enforceability of a non-competition covenant is determined by a court based on all of the facts and circumstances of the specific case at the time enforcement is sought. For this reason, it is not possible to predict whether, or to what extent, a court would enforce covenants not to compete against us during the term of the non-competition agreements. If a court were to determine that the non-competition agreement is unenforceable, they could compete directly against us in the previously restricted markets. Our inability to enforce the non-competition agreements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Holders of Senior Secured Term Loans There is limited history of trading of our common stock and market pricing of our common stock could be volatile. Our New Common Stock has only traded since January 2010. The liquidity of any market for our common stock will depend, among other things, upon the number of holders of our common stock and on our financial performance. The market price for our common stock has been volatile in the past, and the price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate substantially in the future. Factors that could affect the price of our common stock in the future include general conditions in our industry, prevailing interest rates, markets for similar securities and our financial performance and investor expectations for our financial performance. Our common stock could be subject to future dilution and, as a result, could decline in value. The ownership percentage represented by common stock distributed on the Effective Date under the Amended Plan will be subject to dilution in the event that (i) common stock is issued pursuant to the Long-Term Incentive Plan, including issuances upon the exercise of options, and (ii) any other shares of common stock are issued post-emergence. In the future, similar to all companies, additional equity financings or other share issuances by us could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales by existing holders of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that additional sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 18 Table of Contents Dividends are not expected to be paid with respect to our common stock for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that cash dividends or other distributions will be paid with respect to our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, restrictive covenants in the Loan Agreement, as amended, prohibit us from paying material amounts as cash dividends to our stockholders as a class. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control that may be favored by some stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control transaction that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions may also make it more difficult for our stockholders to change our Board of Directors and senior management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include: · a limited right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; · rules regulating how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders; and · authorization for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without stockholder approval. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. This provision of Delaware law may discourage takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for shares of our common stock. In addition, several of our agreements with local exchange carriers require their consent to any assignment by us of our rights and obligations under the agreements. The consent rights in these agreements might discourage, delay or prevent a transaction that a stockholder may consider favorable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 