Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, are not necessarily the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those that we currently deem to be immaterial may materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and our Financial Condition We have significant financial debt leverage, which can restrict our flexibility and make us vulnerable to future developments. As of December 31, 2012, we had total indebtedness under our Loan Agreement of $1,442 million. This significant financial debt leverage can have negative effects, including: · we may be vulnerable to a downturn in the markets in which we operate or a downturn in the economy in general; · we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate requirements; · we may be vulnerable to or limited in our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate or the entry of new competitors into our markets; · we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, including with respect to implementing effective pricing and promotional programs; and · we may be limited in borrowing additional funds. In addition, our debt bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase above certain specified floors, the interest rate on our variable-rate debt would increase and would create higher debt service requirements, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher debt service requirements, any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk. There is substantial uncertainty about our ability to continue as a “going concern”. Our consolidated audited financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012 includes an explanatory paragraph regarding our ability to continue as a “going concern” because there is uncertainty about SuperMedia’s ability to continue as a going-concern without completing the Mergers and the pre-packaged plans. These events are subject to substantial uncertainty as described in this report. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The covenants in the Loan Agreement may restrict our flexibility. Such covenants may place restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends and make other payments or investments; sell assets; make capital expenditures; engage in certain mergers and acquisitions; and refinance existing indebtedness. Additionally, there may be factors beyond our control that could affect our ability to meet debt service requirements. Our ability to meet debt service requirements will depend on our future performance and our ability to sustain sales in the markets in which we operate, the economy generally, and other factors that are beyond our control. Our businesses may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or future borrowings may not be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Moreover, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to make mandatory debt payments or comply with the other provisions of our Loan Agreement, our lenders will be permitted under certain circumstances to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness owing to them and exercise other remedies provided for in our Loan Agreement and under applicable law. There can be no assurances that cash flow from operations will continue to be sufficient to meet our long-term working capital needs. We expect to meet our working capital needs through existing cash balances and cash flow from future operations. However, in the future, we may require additional funds to satisfy our operating expenses and other working capital needs. There can be no assurances that we will have timely access to additional financing sources, or that such access will be on acceptable terms. Furthermore, failure to secure necessary capital could restrict our ability to operate and further develop our business. Our ability to issue debt securities, borrow funds from additional lenders and participate in vendor financing programs are restricted under the terms of the Loan Agreement. Except for equity offerings used to finance certain investments, half of any net cash proceeds of equity offerings must be used to prepay our obligations under the Loan Agreement. If we incur additional indebtedness to fund our operations or for any other reason, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents The terms of our indebtedness impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business. Our Loan Agreement contains covenants that, among other things, place restrictions on our operations and use of cash, including, without limitation, restrictions on our ability to make capital expenditures, acquire or sell businesses and assets, incur additional indebtedness, issue capital stock, create liens, redeem or repurchase debt, enter new lines of business and pay dividends. Events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants. In addition, our Loan Agreement requires us to meet a number of financial ratios and tests. Noncompliance with these covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations or capital needs and to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest and may also restrict our ability to expand or pursue certain business strategies. We may not be able to comply with all of our covenants and obligations in our Loan Agreement. Failure to comply with any of these restrictions, including financial covenants, would result in a default under our Loan Agreement. We could recognize impairment charges for our intangible assets or goodwill. At December 31, 2012, the net carrying value of our goodwill was $704 million and intangible assets was $221 million. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business resulting in further declines in advertising sales and operating results, further declines in the value of the Company’s debt and equity securities, unexpected or planned changes in the use of assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in further impairments to goodwill and intangible assets, and we may be required to assess the recoverability of goodwill in addition to our annual evaluation and the useful lives of our intangible assets and other long-lived assets. These factors, including changes to assumptions used in our impairment analysis as a result of these factors, could result in future impairment charges, a reduction of remaining useful lives associated with our intangible assets and other long-lived assets and acceleration of amortization expense. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Our advertising sales have declined and may continue to decline, which negatively affects our revenues and profitability. Our advertising sales have continued to decline due to competition from other advertising media. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, our advertising sales declined 18.9% and 16.5% compared to the same periods in 2011 and 2010, respectively. We face widespread competition from other print directory publishers and other traditional and new media. This competition may reduce our market share or materially adversely affect our financial performance. The directory advertising industry in the United States is highly competitive. Some of the incumbent publishers with which we compete are or may become larger than we are and have or may obtain greater financial resources than we have. Although we may have limited market overlap with incumbent publishers, relative to the size of our overall footprint, we may not be able to compete effectively with these publishers for advertising sales in these limited markets. In addition, independent publishers may commit more resources to certain markets than we are able to commit, thus limiting our ability to compete effectively in these areas. We also compete for advertising sales with other traditional media, including newspapers, magazines, radio, direct mail, telemarketing, billboards and television. Many of these competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we have. The market share of these competitors may increase and our market share may decrease. We also compete for advertising sales with other new media. The Internet has become increasingly accessible as a local media for businesses of all sizes. We face competition from search engines and portals, such as Google, Yahoo! and Bing, among others, some of which have entered into commercial agreements with us and other major directory publishers. Internet search engines and service providers including but not limited to Google, Yahoo!, Bing, Facebook and Twitter also have significantly greater technological and financial resources than we do, and their accumulated customer information allows them to offer targeted advertising on a scale greater than ours. Further, the use of the Internet, including as a means to transact commerce through wireless devices, has resulted in new technologies and services that compete with traditional local media. Through Superpages.com and the Superpages.com network, we compete with the Internet yellow pages directories of other publishers, such as Yellowpages.com, as well as other Internet sites that provide classified directory information, such as Citysearch.com. We may not be able to compete effectively for advertising with these other companies, some of which have greater resources than we do. Our digital strategy may be adversely affected if major search engines build local sales forces or otherwise begin to more effectively market to small- and medium-sized local businesses. 12 Table of Contents Declining use of print yellow pages directories is adversely affecting our business. Overall references to print yellow pages directories in the United States have declined from 14.5 billion in 2005 to 7.4 billion in 2011 according to a Local Search Association (formerly known as the Yellow Pages Association) Industry Usage Study. We believe this decline is primarily attributable to increased use of Internet search providers, as well as the proliferation of very large retail stores for which consumers and businesses may not reference the yellow pages. We believe the decline negatively affects the advertising sales associated with our traditional print business. Use of our print directories may continue to decline. A significant decline in usage of our print directories could impair our ability to maintain or increase advertising prices; and cause businesses to reduce or discontinue purchasing advertising in our yellow pages directories. Either or both of these factors would adversely affect our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Increased competition in local telephone markets could reduce the benefits of using the incumbent local exchange carriers’ brand name. Advances in communications technology (including wireless devices and voice over Internet protocol) and demographic factors (including shifts from wireline telephone communications to wireless or other communications technologies) will erode the market position of telephone service providers. The use of traditional wireline carriers is declining. We believe the loss of market share by incumbent local exchange carriers in any particular local service area decreases the value of their brand name in those particular local telephone markets. As a result, we may not fully realize the benefits of our commercial arrangements with the incumbent local exchange carriers. Further transfers of local exchange assets by Verizon could reduce the benefit of using the Verizon brand name. In 2008, Verizon transferred rural exchange assets in three states to FairPoint, and in 2010, Verizon transferred additional exchange assets in 14 states to Frontier. In connection with these transactions, the Company entered into publishing, branding and non-competition agreements with FairPoint and Frontier, with terms substantially the same as those contained in the corresponding Verizon agreements. As a result of these transactions, the Company no longer has a license to use the Verizon brand in the sold areas. Instead, under the new branding agreements, FairPoint and Frontier have each granted us a limited right to use their respective trademarks and service marks in connection with publishing print directories in the affected service areas and to serve as the official publisher of FairPoint or Frontier print directories in the respective service areas. We believe that neither of these brands is as strong as Verizon. Additional transfers by Verizon to third parties would further decrease the scope of the Verizon brand name and thereby potentially diminish our market share in those markets. Our business and financial condition would be adversely affected by a prolonged economic downturn and other external events. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from the sale of advertising. Expenditures by advertising clients are sensitive to economic conditions and tend to decline in a recession or other periods of economic uncertainty. Any additional decline of this type could materially affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our business was subject to the impact of recent adverse economic conditions, including decreased levels of business activity across many market segments, decreased advertising demand and limited credit availability. Our total operating revenue over the past few years has been negatively affected by the economic downturn. Future economic conditions or other events that could impact purchasing patterns could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to anticipate or respond effectively to changes in technology and consumer preferences, our competitive position could be harmed. Advances in technology will continue to bring new competitors and distribution channels to the advertising industry. As a result, our growth and future financial performance will depend on our ability to develop and market digital media solutions and create new distribution channels, while enhancing existing offerings, services and distribution channels to incorporate the latest technological advances and accommodate changing user preferences, including the use of the Internet and mobile phones. We may not be able to timely or successfully adapt our business to these changes in technology. Internet search engines and service providers such as Google, Yahoo!, Bing, Facebook and Twitter, among others, also have significantly greater technological and financial resources than we do, and their accumulated customer information allows them to offer targeted advertising on a scale greater than ours. 13 Table of Contents Our reliance on small- and medium-sized businesses exposes us to increased credit risks. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 85% of our advertising revenue is derived from selling advertising to local businesses, which are generally small- and medium-sized businesses. In the ordinary course of our directory operations, we bill most of these clients over the life of the directory. Full collection of delinquent accounts can take many months or may never occur. Small- and medium-sized businesses tend to have fewer financial resources and higher rates of failure than larger businesses, in particular during periods of economic downturn. These factors increase our exposure to delinquent or uncollectible accounts. Our dependence on third party providers for printing, publishing and distribution services could materially affect us. We depend on third parties to print, publish and distribute our directories. In connection with these services, we rely on the systems and services of our third party service providers, their ability to perform key functions on our behalf in a timely manner and in accordance with agreed levels of service, and their ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to perform services on our behalf. There are a limited number of these providers with sufficient scale to meet our needs. A failure in the systems of one of our key third party service providers, or their inability to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts or to retain sufficient qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. If we were to lose the services of any of our key third party service providers, we would be required to hire and train sufficient personnel to perform these services or to find an alternative service provider. In some cases it would be impracticable for us to perform these functions, including the printing of our directories. In the event we were required to perform any of the services that we currently outsource, it is unlikely that we would be able to perform them without incurring additional costs. Increases in the price or decreases in the availability of paper could materially adversely affect our costs of operations. Paper is the principal raw material we use to produce our print directories. The paper we use is provided by several different suppliers. The price of paper under these agreements is set each year based on total tonnage by supplier, paper basis weights, production capacity and market price. We do not engage in hedging activities to limit our exposure to increases in paper prices. If we cannot secure access to paper in the necessary amounts or at reasonable prices, or if paper costs increase substantially, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our sales of advertising to national accounts are dependent upon third parties that we do not control. Approximately 15% of our advertising revenue is derived from the sale of advertising to national or large regional companies, including rental car companies, insurance companies and pizza delivery companies. These companies typically purchase advertising in numerous markets. Substantially all of the revenue from these large advertisers is derived through certified marketing representatives (“CMRs”). CMRs are independent third parties that act as agents for national companies and design their advertisements, arrange for the placement of those advertisements in our markets and provide billing services. Our relationships with these national advertisers depend significantly on the performance of the CMRs, which we do not control. If some or all of the CMRs with whom we have existing relationships were unable or unwilling to transact business with us on acceptable terms or at all, this inability or unwillingness could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, any decline in the performance of the CMRs could harm our ability to generate revenue from national accounts and could materially adversely affect our business. We have agreements with several major Internet search engines and portals. The termination of one or more of these agreements could adversely affect our business. We have expanded our Internet distribution by establishing relationships with several other Internet yellow pages directory providers, portals, search engines and individual websites, which makes our content easier for search engines to access and provides a greater response to general searches on the Internet. Under the terms of the agreements with these Internet providers, we place our clients’ advertisements on major search engines, which give us access to a higher volume of traffic than we could generate on our own, without relinquishing the client relationship. The search engines benefit from our local sales force and full-service capabilities for attracting and serving advertisers that might not otherwise transact business with search engines. The termination of one or more of our agreements with major search engines could adversely affect our business. 14 Table of Contents Increased regulation regarding information technology could lead to increased costs. As the Internet develops, the provision of Internet services and the commercial use of the Internet and Internet-related applications may become subject to greater regulation. Regulation of the Internet and Internet-related services is still developing, both by new laws and government regulation, and also by industry self-regulation. If our regulatory environment becomes more restrictive, including by increased Internet regulation, our profitability could decrease. A breach of our information technology systems could harm our business and our customers. A breach of cyber/data security measures that impairs our information technology infrastructure could disrupt normal business operations and affect our ability to control our assets, access customer information and limit communication with third parties. Any loss of confidential or proprietary data through a breach could materially and adversely affect our reputation, expose us to legal claims, impair our ability to execute on business strategies and/or materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. A portion of our employees are union-represented. Our business could be adversely affected by future labor negotiations and our ability to maintain good relations with our unionized employees. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 950, or 30%, of our employees were represented by unions. In addition, the employees of some of our key suppliers are represented by unions. Work stoppages or slow-downs involving our union-represented employees, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations and increase operating costs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The inability to negotiate acceptable terms with the unions could also result in increased operating costs from higher wages or benefits paid to union employees or replacement workers. A greater percentage of our work force could also become represented by unions. If a union decides to strike, and others choose to honor its picket line, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain highly qualified individuals could materially adversely affect our business operations. We depend on the continued services of key personnel, including our experienced senior management team. Our ability to achieve our operating goals and fully execute the transformation of our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified individuals. We review and adjust our compensation plans on an annual basis to ensure they are competitive with market trends; however, the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Turnover among media consultants could materially adversely affect our business. The loss of a significant number of experienced media consultants would likely result in fewer sales and could materially adversely affect our business. The turnover rate of our media consultants is generally higher than that of our other employees. A majority of the attrition of our media consultants occurs with employees with less than two years experience. We expend substantial resources and management time on hiring and training our media consultants. Our ability to attract and retain qualified sales personnel depends on numerous factors outside of our control, including conditions in the local employment markets in which we operate. A substantial decrease in the number of media consultants could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operation and cash flow. The loss of important intellectual property rights could adversely affect our results of operations and future prospects. Various trademarks and other intellectual property rights are key to our business. We rely upon a combination of trademark and copyright laws as well as contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We may be required to bring lawsuits against third parties to protect our intellectual property rights. Similarly, we may be party to proceedings by third parties challenging our rights. Lawsuits brought by us may not be successful, or we may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. As the commercial use of the Internet further expands, it may be more difficult to protect our trade names, including Superpages.com, from domain name infringement or to prevent others from using Internet domain names that associate their businesses with ours. In the past, we have received claims of material infringement of intellectual property rights. Related lawsuits, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, the loss of important trademarks or other intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect upon our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 15 Table of Contents Our reliance on technology could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most of our business activities rely to a significant degree on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems and those of others. Any failure of existing or future systems could impair our ability to collect, process and store data and perform the day-to-day management of our business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our computer and communications systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources. A natural disaster or other unanticipated problems that lead to the corruption or loss of data at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Laws and regulations directed at limiting or restricting the distribution of our print directories or shifting the costs and responsibilities of waste management related to our print directories could adversely affect our business. A number of states and municipalities are considering, and a limited number of municipalities have enacted, legislation or regulations that would limit or restrict our ability to distribute our print directories in the markets we serve. The most restrictive laws or regulations would prohibit us from distributing our print directories unless residents affirmatively “opt in” to receive our print directories. Other, less restrictive, laws or regulations would require us to allow residents to “opt out” of receiving our print directories. In addition, some states and municipalities are considering legislation or regulations that would shift the costs and responsibilities of waste management for discarded directories from municipalities to the producers of the directories. These laws and regulations will likely, if and where adopted, increase our costs, reduce the number of directories that are distributed, and negatively impact our ability to market our advertising to new and existing clients. If these or similar laws and regulations are widely adopted, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Legal actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Various lawsuits and other claims typical for a business of our size and nature are pending against us. In addition, from time to time, we receive communications from government or regulatory agencies concerning investigations or allegations of noncompliance with laws or regulations in jurisdictions in which we operate. Any potential judgments, fines or penalties relating to these matters, may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are also exposed to other claims and litigation relating to our business, as well as methods of collection, processing and use of personal data. The subjects of our data and users of data collected and processed by us could also have claims against us if our data were found to be inaccurate, or if personal data stored by us were improperly accessed and disseminated by unauthorized persons. These claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Risks Related to Agreements with Local Exchange Carriers The loss of any of our key agreements with Verizon, FairPoint and Frontier could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have entered into several agreements with Verizon, FairPoint and Frontier, including publishing agreements, branding agreements and non-competition agreements. We believe that acting as the official publisher of directories provides us with a competitive advantage in those markets. Under the branding agreements, we are granted a limited right to use certain trademarks in connection with publishing certain print directories and identify ourselves as the official print directory publisher. Under the non-competition agreements, Verizon, FairPoint and Frontier generally agreed not to publish tangible or digital (excluding Internet) media directories consisting principally of wireline listings and classified advertisements of subscribers in the markets in which we are the directory publisher. Each of these agreements has an initial term of 30 years from the date of the spin-off from Verizon, subject to certain early termination rights. These agreements may be terminated by the local exchange carrier prior to the stated term under specified circumstances, some of which are beyond our reasonable control or could require extraordinary efforts or the incurrence of material excess costs on our part in order to avoid breach of the applicable agreement. Each of these agreements has a cross-default provision, so that a termination under any of the agreements may result in a partial or complete termination of rights under any of the other agreements with such party. It is possible that these agreements will not remain in place for their full stated terms or that we may be unable to avoid all potential breaches or defaults of these agreements. 16 Table of Contents Limitations on our use of brand names could adversely affect our business and profitability. We have entered into brand agreements with Verizon, FairPoint and Frontier. These agreements grant us a limited right to use certain brand names and trademarks in connection with publishing certain print directories and identify ourselves as the official print directory publisher in their markets. Our right to use brand names is subject to our compliance with the terms and conditions of the branding and publishing agreements. Regulatory obligations requiring incumbent local exchange carriers to publish white pages directories in its incumbent markets may change over time, which may increase our future operating costs. Regulations established by state public utility commissions typically require incumbent local exchange carriers to publish and distribute white pages directories of certain residences and businesses that order or receive local telephone service from the carriers. These regulations also require an incumbent carrier, in specified cases, to include information relating to the provision of telephone service provided by the incumbent carrier and other carriers in the service area, as well as information relating to local and state governmental agencies. The costs of publishing, printing and distributing the directories are included in our operating expenses. Under the terms of our publishing agreements with Verizon, FairPoint and Frontier, we are required to perform their regulatory obligation to publish white pages directories in the markets in which we are the directory publisher. If any additional legal requirements are imposed with respect to this obligation, we would be obligated to comply with these requirements on behalf of Verizon, FairPoint and Frontier, even if this were to increase our operating costs. Our results of operations relative to competing directory publishers that do not have those obligations could be adversely affected if we were not able to increase our revenue to cover any of these unreimbursed compliance costs. Our inability to enforce the non-competition agreements with Verizon, FairPoint and Frontier may impair the value of our business. We entered into non-competition agreements with Verizon, FairPoint and Frontier pursuant to which they each agreed not to publish tangible or digital (excluding Internet) media directories consisting principally of wireline listings and classified advertisements of subscribers in the markets in which we are the publisher of their directories. However, under applicable law, a covenant not to compete is only enforceable to the extent it is necessary to protect a legitimate business interest of the party seeking enforcement; if it does not unreasonably restrain the party against whom enforcement is sought; and if it is not contrary to the public interest. Enforceability of a non-competition covenant is determined by the courts based on all of the facts and circumstances of the specific case at the time enforcement is sought. For this reason, it is not possible to predict whether, or to what extent, a court would enforce covenants not to compete against us during the term of the non-competition agreements. If a court were to determine that the non-competition agreement is unenforceable, the restricted parties could compete directly against us in the previously restricted markets. Our inability to enforce the non-competition agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Holders of Senior Secured Term Loans Our common stock could be subject to future dilution and, as a result, could decline in value. The ownership percentage represented by common stock could be subject to dilution in the event that common stock is issued pursuant to the Company’s 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan, including issuances upon the exercise of options, and any other shares of common stock that are issued. In the future, similar to all companies, additional equity financings or other share issuances by us could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales by existing holders of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that additional sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We do not expect to pay dividends with respect to our common stock for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends or other distributions with respect to our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, restrictive covenants in the Loan Agreement prohibit us from paying material amounts as cash dividends to our stockholders. 17 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control that may be favored by some stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control transaction that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions may also make it more difficult for our stockholders to change our Board of Directors and senior management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include: · a limited right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; · rules regulating how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders; and · authorization for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without stockholder approval. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. This provision of Delaware law may discourage takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for shares of our common stock. In addition, several of our agreements with local exchange carriers require their consent to any assignment by us of our rights and obligations under the agreements. The consent rights in these agreements might discourage, delay or prevent a transaction that a stockholder may consider favorable. Risks Related to the Pending Merger with Dex One The prepackaged plans are subject to the approval of the Bankruptcy Court, and the failure of the Bankruptcy Court to approve the prepackaged plans in a timely manner could adversely affect the interests of our stockholders and creditors. The prepackaged plans must be approved by the Bankruptcy Court in order to become effective. There is no assurance that the Bankruptcy Court will approve the prepackaged plans or that this approval will occur in a timely manner. Failure to obtain this approval in a timely manner could adversely affect our ability to complete the transaction and our operating results, which could result in erosion of the value of our enterprise and impairment of the rights of our stockholders and creditors. Moreover, if the prepackaged plans are not approved, our reorganization case could be converted into a case under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, pursuant to which a trustee would be appointed or elected to liquidate our assets for distribution in accordance with the priorities established by the Bankruptcy Code. Liquidation under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code would result in, among other things, smaller distributions being made to creditors than under the prepackaged plans. The prepackaged plan may have a material adverse effect on our operations. We cannot predict the amount of time that we will spend in bankruptcy for the purpose of implementing the prepackaged plan and a lengthy bankruptcy proceeding could disrupt our business, as well as impair the prospect for reorganization on the terms contained in the prepackaged plan. The Chapter 11 case could adversely affect our operations, including relationships with our customers, partners, employees and others. While we expect that the Chapter 11 case filed solely for the purpose of implementing the prepackaged plan will be of short duration and will not be unduly disruptive to our business, we cannot be certain that this necessarily will be the case. Although the prepackaged plan is designed to minimize the length of the bankruptcy proceedings, it is impossible to predict with certainty the amount of time that we may spend in bankruptcy, and we cannot be certain that our prepackaged plan will be confirmed. Even if confirmed on a timely basis, the bankruptcy proceeding could itself have an adverse effect on our business. There is a risk, due to uncertainty about our future, that, among other things: · customers could move to our competitors, including competitors that have comparatively greater financial resources and that are in comparatively less financial distress; · employees could be distracted from performance of their duties or more easily attracted to other career opportunities; and · business partners could terminate their relationship with us or demand financial assurances or enhanced performance, any of which could impair our prospects. A lengthy bankruptcy proceeding also would involve additional expenses and divert the attention of management from the operation of our businesses, as well as create concerns for employees, suppliers and customers. 18 Table of Contents The disruption that the bankruptcy proceeding could have upon our businesses may increase with the length of time it takes to complete the proceeding. If we are unable to obtain confirmation of our prepackaged plan on a timely basis, because of a challenge to the prepackaged plan or otherwise, we may be forced to operate in bankruptcy for an extended period of time while we try to develop a different reorganization plan that can be confirmed. A protracted bankruptcy case could increase both the probability and the magnitude of the adverse effects described above. The Bankruptcy Court may find the solicitation of acceptances inadequate. Usually, votes to accept or reject a plan of reorganization are solicited after the filing of a petition commencing a Chapter 11 case. Nevertheless, a debtor may solicit votes prior to the commencement of a Chapter 11 case in accordance with Sections 1125(g) and 1126(b) of the Bankruptcy Code and Bankruptcy Rule 3018(b). The Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure are referred to as the “Bankruptcy Rules.” Sections 1125(g) and 1126(b) of the Bankruptcy Code and Bankruptcy Rule 3018(b) require that: · solicitation comply with applicable non-bankruptcy law; · the plan of reorganization be transmitted to substantially all creditors and other interest holders entitled to vote; and · the time prescribed for voting is not unreasonably short. With regard to solicitation of votes prior to the commencement of a bankruptcy case, if the Bankruptcy Court concludes that the requirements of Bankruptcy Rule 3018(b) have not been met, then the Bankruptcy Court could deem such votes invalid, whereupon the prepackaged plan could not be confirmed without a re-solicitation of votes to accept or reject the prepackaged plan. While we believe that the requirements of Sections 1125(g) and 1126(b) of the Bankruptcy Code and Bankruptcy Rule 3018(b) will be met, there can be no assurance that the Bankruptcy Court will reach the same conclusion. Either SuperMedia or Dex One may fail to meet all conditions precedent to effectiveness of the prepackaged plans. Although we believe that the effective date would occur very shortly after confirmation of the prepackaged plans, there can be no assurance as to such timing. The confirmation and effectiveness of the prepackaged plans are subject to certain conditions that may or may not be satisfied. We cannot assure you that all requirements for confirmation and effectiveness required under the prepackaged plans will be satisfied. A claim or interest holder may object to, and the Bankruptcy Court may disagree with, our classifications of claims and interests. Section 1122 of the Bankruptcy Code provides that a plan may place a claim or an interest in a particular class only if such claim is substantially similar to the other claims or interests of such class. Although we believe that the classifications of claims and interests under the prepackaged plan complies with the requirements set forth in the Bankruptcy Code, a claim or interest holder could challenge the classification. In such event, the cost of the prepackaged plan and the time needed to confirm the prepackaged plan may increase, and we cannot assure you that the Bankruptcy Court will agree with its classification of claims and interests. If the Bankruptcy Court concludes that the classifications of claims and interests under the prepackaged plan do not comply with the requirements of the Bankruptcy Code, we may need to modify the prepackaged plan. Such modification could require a re-solicitation of votes on the prepackaged plan. The prepackaged plan may not be confirmed if the Bankruptcy Court determines that our classifications of claims and interests are not appropriate. The SEC, the United States Trustee, or other parties may object to the prepackaged plan on account of the third-party release provisions. In the Chapter 11 case, any party in interest, including the SEC and the United States Trustee, may object to the prepackaged plan on the grounds that the third-party releases are not given consensually or in a permissible non-consensual manner. In response to such an objection, the Bankruptcy Court could determine that the third-party releases are not valid under the Bankruptcy Code. If the Bankruptcy Court made such a determination, the prepackaged plan could be confirmed without being modified to remove the third party release provisions. This could result in substantial delay in confirmation of the prepackaged plan or the prepackaged plan not being confirmed. Contingencies may affect distributions to holders of allowed claims and interests. The distributions available to holders of allowed claims and interests under the prepackaged plan can be affected by a variety of contingencies, including whether the Bankruptcy Court orders certain allowed claims to be subordinated to other allowed claims. The occurrence of any and all such contingencies could affect distributions under the prepackaged plan. 19 Table of Contents Other parties in interest might be permitted to propose alternative plans of reorganization that may be less favorable to certain of our constituencies than the prepackaged plan. In the Chapter 11 case, other parties in interest could seek authority from the Bankruptcy Court to propose an alternative plan of reorganization. Under the Bankruptcy Code, a debtor-in-possession initially has the exclusive right to propose and solicit acceptances of a plan of reorganization for a period of 120 days from the filing. However, such exclusivity period can be reduced or terminated upon order of the Bankruptcy Court. If such an order were to be entered, other parties in interest would then have the opportunity to propose alternative plans of reorganization. If other parties in interest were to propose an alternative plan of reorganization following expiration or termination of our exclusivity period, such a plan may be less favorable to existing equity interest holders and may seek to exclude these holders from retaining any equity under their plan. Alternative plans of reorganization also may treat less favorably the claims of a number of other constituencies, including the senior secured creditors, employees and trading partners and customers. We consider maintaining relationships with our senior secured creditors, common stockholders, employees and trading partners and customers as critical to maintaining the value of the combined company following consummation of the transaction, and have sought to treat those constituencies accordingly. However, proponents of alternative plans of reorganization may not share our assessments and may seek to impair the claims of such constituencies to a greater degree. If there were competing plans of reorganization, our reorganization cases likely would become longer, more complicated and much more expensive. If this were to occur, or if our employees or other constituencies important to our business reacted adversely to an alternative plan of reorganization, the adverse consequences discussed in the other risk factors in this section discussing risks related to the prepackaged plan also could occur. Our business may be negatively affected if we are unable to assume executory contracts. An executory contract is a contract on which performance remains due to some extent by both parties to the contract. The prepackaged plan provides for the assumption of all executory contracts and unexpired leases, unless designated on a Schedule of Rejected Contracts. We intend to preserve as much of the benefit of these existing contracts and leases as possible. However, with respect to some limited classes of executory contracts, including licenses with respect to patents or trademarks, we may need to obtain the consent of the counterparty to maintain the benefit of the contract. There is no guarantee that such consent either would be forthcoming or that conditions would not be attached to any such consent that makes assuming the contracts unattractive. We then would be required to either forego the benefits offered by such contracts or to find alternative arrangements to replace them. Material transactions could be set aside as fraudulent conveyances or preferential transfers. Certain payments received by stakeholders prior to the bankruptcy filing could be challenged under applicable debtor/creditor or bankruptcy laws as either a “fraudulent conveyance” or a “preferential transfer.” A fraudulent conveyance occurs when a transfer of a debtor’s assets is made with the intent to defraud creditors or in exchange for consideration that does not represent reasonably equivalent value to the property transferred. A preferential transfer occurs upon a transfer of property of the debtor while the debtor is insolvent for the benefit of a creditor on account of an antecedent debt owed by the debtor that was made on or within 90 days before the date of filing of the bankruptcy petition or one year before the date of filing of the petition, if the creditor, at the time of such transfer, was an insider. If any transfer was challenged in the Bankruptcy Court and found to have occurred with regard to any of our material transactions, a bankruptcy court could order the recovery of all amounts received by the recipient of the transfer. We may seek to amend, waive, modify or withdraw the prepackaged plan at any time prior to its confirmation. We reserve the right, prior to the confirmation or substantial consummation thereof, subject to the provisions of Section 1127 of the Bankruptcy Code and applicable law and the support agreement to amend the terms of the prepackaged plan or waive any conditions thereto if and to the extent such amendments or waivers are necessary or desirable to consummate the prepackaged plan. The potential impact of any such amendment or waiver on the holders of claims and interests cannot presently be foreseen but may include a change in the economic impact of the prepackaged plan on some or all of the proposed classes or a change in the relative rights of such classes. All holders of claims and interests will receive notice of such amendments or waivers required by applicable law and the Bankruptcy Court. If, after receiving sufficient acceptances, but prior to confirmation of the prepackaged plan, we seek to modify the prepackaged plan, the previously solicited acceptances will be valid only if (1) all classes of adversely affected creditors and interest holders accept the modification in writing or (2) the Bankruptcy Court determines, after notice to designated parties, that such modification was de minimis or purely technical or otherwise did not adversely change the treatment of holders accepting claims and interests or is otherwise permitted by the Bankruptcy Code. 20 Table of Contents We may object to the amount or classification of a claim or interest. Except as otherwise provided in the prepackaged plan, we reserve the right to object to the amount or classification of any claim or interest under the prepackaged plan. The estimates set forth in this document cannot be relied on by any holder of a claim or interest where such claim or interest is subject to an objection. Any holder of a claim or interest that is subject to an objection thus may not receive its expected share of the estimated distributions described in this document. The cash collateral authorized by the Bankruptcy Court to fund the Chapter 11 case may be insufficient. If the Chapter 11 case takes longer than expected to conclude, we may exhaust the available cash collateral authorized by the Bankruptcy Court to fund the Chapter 11 case. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain an extension of the right to use cash collateral, in which case, the liquidity necessary for the orderly functioning of our business may be impaired materially. The confirmation and consummation of the prepackaged plan could be delayed. We estimate that the process of obtaining confirmation of the prepackaged plan by the Bankruptcy Court will last approximately 30 to 60 days from the date of the commencement of the Chapter 11 case, but it could last considerably longer if, for example, confirmation is contested or the conditions to confirmation or consummation are not satisfied or waived. We will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the transaction is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the transaction on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on the Company. These uncertainties may impair our ability to retain and motivate key personnel and could cause customers and others that deal with SuperMedia to defer entering into contracts with SuperMedia or making other decisions concerning SuperMedia or seek to change existing business relationships with SuperMedia. Certain of SuperMedia’s commercial contracts contain change of control restrictions that may give rise to a right of termination or cancellation in connection with the transaction. In addition, if key employees depart because of uncertainty about their future roles and the potential complexities of the transaction, SuperMedia’s business could be harmed. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts SuperMedia from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the transaction occurs without the consent of the other party. These restrictions may prevent SuperMedia from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the transaction. The Merger Agreement limits our ability to pursue alternatives to the transaction. SuperMedia has agreed that it will not, among other things, solicit, initiate, encourage or facilitate, or engage in discussions, negotiations or agreements regarding, proposals to acquire 10% or more of the stock or assets of SuperMedia, subject to limited exceptions, including that a party may take certain actions in the event it receives an unsolicited acquisition proposal that constitutes a superior proposal or is reasonably expected to lead to a superior proposal, and the party’s board of directors determines in good faith, after consultation with its outside legal counsel and financial advisor, that a failure to take action with respect to such takeover proposal would be inconsistent with its duties under applicable law. SuperMedia has also agreed that its board of directors will not change its recommendation to its stockholders or approve any alternative agreement, subject to limited exceptions, including that, at any time prior to the applicable stockholder approval, the applicable board of directors may make a change in recommendation of the transaction if such board concludes in good faith, after consultation with its outside legal counsel and financial advisor, that (1) the failure to take such action would be inconsistent with its duties under applicable laws, (2) if requested by the other party, its representatives shall have negotiated in good faith with the other party for three business days and (3) if such change in recommendation is related to an alternative acquisition proposal, that such proposal constitutes a superior proposal. We will incur significant transaction and transaction-related transition costs in connection with the transaction. We expect that we will incur significant, non-recurring costs in connection with consummating the transaction and integrating the operations of the two companies. We may incur additional costs to maintain employee morale and to retain key employees. We will also incur significant fees and expenses relating to amending existing credit facilities and legal, accounting and other transaction fees and other costs associated with the transaction. Some of these costs are payable regardless of whether the transaction is completed. Upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances we may be required to pay Dex One an expense reimbursement of up to a maximum amount of $7.5 million. Additionally, we will incur significant, non-recurring costs in connection with the administration of the SuperMedia Chapter 11 case. We must continue to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees, which may be difficult in light of uncertainty regarding the transaction, and failure to do so could negatively affect our business. For the transaction to be successful, during the period before the transaction is completed, we must continue to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees. Experienced employees are in high demand and competition for their talents can be intense. Employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the Company until, or even after, strategies with regard to 21 Table of Contents the combined company are announced or executed. The potential distractions of the transaction may adversely affect our ability to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees and keep them focused on applicable strategies and goals. A failure to attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees during the period prior to the transaction could have a negative impact on our business. Failure to complete the transaction could negatively impact us. If the transaction is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and there may be various consequences, including: · the adverse impact to the business caused by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus on the transaction, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of the transaction; · the incurrence of substantial costs in connection with the transaction, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of the transaction; · if the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, the payment to Dex One of an expense reimbursement of up to $7.5 million; · a negative impact on the market price of our common stock; · the possibility of being unable to repay indebtedness when due and payable; and · the Chapter 11 proceedings resulting in recoveries for creditors and stockholders that are less than contemplated under the prepackaged plan or resulting in no recovery for certain creditors and stockholders. Satisfying the conditions to, and completion of, the transaction may take longer than, and could cost more than, we expect. Any delay in completing, or any additional conditions imposed in order to complete, the transaction may materially and adversely affect the synergies and other benefits that we expect to achieve from the transaction and the integration of our and Dex One’s businesses. The transaction is subject to a number of conditions beyond our control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. We cannot predict when or whether these conditions will be satisfied. Furthermore, the requirements for obtaining any required regulatory clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the transaction for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring altogether. Any delay in completing the transaction could cause the combined company not to realize some or all of the synergies that we expect to achieve if the transaction is successfully completed in the expected time frame. The support of our senior secured creditors for the prepackaged plan and the necessary amendments to the Loan Agreement is subject to the terms of support agreements between the Company and certain of its secured creditors, which is subject to termination. We have entered into support agreement with certain of our senior secured creditors. The support agreement provides, among other things, that the creditor parties will support the amendments to our Loan Agreement and prepackaged plan and will support the waiver of certain rights under the Loan Agreement. If the support agreement is terminated, our senior secured lenders will have no obligation to support the prepackaged plan or the financing amendments to our Loan Agreement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 