Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Business We are a newly formed, development stage company with a limited operating history and no revenues from operations, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed development stage company with limited operating results. Because we lack an established operating history, you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing a business combination with one or more target businesses. We have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective target businesses concerning a business combination and may be unable to complete a business combination. We will not generate any revenues from operations until after completing a business combination. If we expend all of the funds not held in trust and interest income earned of $1.35 million on the balance of the trust account that has been released to us to fund our working capital requirements (net of taxes) in seeking a business combination but fail to complete such a combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. If we do not consummate a business combination, we will dissolve and liquidate and distribute the trust account. Our public stockholders may receive less than $8.00 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. Pursuant to, among other documents, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, if we do not complete a business combination within 18 months after March 6, 2007, the date we consummated our initial public offering, or within 24 months after March 6, 2007 if the extension criteria described below in this risk factor have been satisfied, our purpose and powers will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up. Upon dissolution, after paying for or reserving for payment of our liabilities (from assets outside the trust account and, if necessary, within the trust account) we will distribute to all of our public stockholders, in proportion to their respective equity interest, an aggregate sum equal to the amount in the trust account, including the deferred underwriting discount and interest income earned on the trust account (net of up to $1.35 million of the interest earned on the trust account which has been released to us to cover a portion of our operating expenses and net of income taxes). The per-share distribution may be less than $8.00. If we were to expend all of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement, other than the proceeds deposited in the trust account, and without taking into account any interest earned on the trust account or interest income released for taxes or operating expenses, the initial per share liquidation price would be $8.00, assuming that amount was not further reduced by claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that the actual per share liquidation price will not be less than $8.00. In the event that our board of directors recommends and our stockholders approve our dissolution and the distribution of our assets and it is subsequently determined that our reserves for claims and liabilities to third parties are insufficient, stockholders who receive funds from our trust account would be liable up to such amounts to creditors. Furthermore, there will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our warrants which will expire worthless. If we enter into either a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement to complete a business combination prior to the expiration of 18 months after March 6, 2007, the date we consummated our initial public offering, but are unable to complete the business combination within the 18-month period, then we will have an additional six months in which to complete the business combination contemplated by the letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement. If we are unable to consummate that transaction within the permitted time period our purpose and powers will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up. Upon notice from us, the trustee of the trust account will liquidate the investments constituting the trust account and will remit the proceeds to our transfer agent for distribution to our public stockholders as part of our dissolution and plan of distribution. Concurrently, we intend to pay, or reserve for payment, from funds not held in the trust account, our liabilities and obligations. However, we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient funds for such purpose. We are also unable to predict the amount of time that would be required to complete the procedures necessary for our dissolution, and substantial delays may result. 5 If we are unable to cover our operating expenses for at least 24 months following our initial public offering, we may be unable to complete a business combination. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account and the $1.35 million of interest earned on the trust released to us will be sufficient to allow us to operate for at least 24 months following March 6, 2007, the date we consummated our initial public offering, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of the funds not being placed in the trust account and the $1.35 million released to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. Additionally, we could use a portion of the funds not being placed in the trust account and the $1.35 million released to us as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we did and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. You are not entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. As the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the U.S. securities laws. However, because we have net tangible assets in excess of $5 million, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share price received by stockholders upon our dissolution could be less than $8.00 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses and other entities with which we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements or that any such agreements, if executed, will be enforceable, and it is not a condition to our doing business with anyone. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders, and the per-share price upon our dissolution could be less than the initial $8.00 per share held in the trust account, plus interest (net of any taxes due on such interest, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from the trust account and net of up to $1.35 million of the interest earned on the trust account which has been released to us to cover a portion of our operating expenses), due to claims of such creditors. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary case is filed against us that is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account the per share liquidation distribution would be less than the initial $8.00 per share held in the trust account. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them, regardless of when such claims are filed. We cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from the assets distributed to our public stockholders any amounts owed to them by us. Under the DGCL, our stockholders could be liable for any claims against the company to the extent of distributions received by them in dissolution. Further, because our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we distribute our assets in accordance with Section 281(b) rather than Sections 280 and 281(a), any such liability of our stockholders would extend to claims for which an action, suit or proceeding is begun after the third anniversary of our dissolution. The limitations on stockholder liability under the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, for claims against a dissolved corporation are determined by the procedures that a corporation follows for distribution of its assets following dissolution. If we complied with the procedures set forth in Sections 280 and 281(a) of the DGCL (which would include, among other things, a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against us, a 90-day period during which we may reject any claims brought, an additional 6 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, as well as review by the Delaware Court of Chancery) our stockholders would have no further liability with respect to claims on which an action, suit or proceeding is begun after the third anniversary of our dissolution. However, in accordance with our intention to dissolve and distribute our assets to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will comply with Section 281(b) of the DGCL instead of Sections 280 and 281(a). Accordingly, our stockholders’ liability would extend to claims for which an action, suit or proceeding is begun after the third anniversary of our dissolution. Under Delaware law, our dissolution requires the approval of the holders of a majority of our outstanding stock, without which we will not be able to dissolve and liquidate, and distribute our assets to our public stockholders. We will promptly adopt a plan of dissolution and liquidation and initiate procedures for our dissolution and liquidation if we do not effect a business combination within 18 months after March 6, 2007, the date we consummated our initial public offering (or within 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle, or definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after consummation of our initial public offering and the business combination related thereto has not yet been consummated within such 24-month period). However, pursuant to Delaware law, our dissolution requires the affirmative vote of stockholders owning a majority of our then outstanding common stock. Soliciting the vote of our stockholders will require the preparation of preliminary and definitive proxy statements, which will need to be filed with the SEC and could be subject to its review. This process could take a substantial amount of time ranging from 40 days to several months. As a result, the distribution of our assets to the public stockholders could be subject to a considerable delay. Furthermore, we may need to postpone the stockholders’ meeting, resolicit our stockholders, or amend our plan of dissolution and liquidation to obtain the required stockholder approval, all of which would further delay the distribution of our assets and result in increased costs. If we are not able to obtain approval from a majority of our stockholders, we will not be able to dissolve and liquidate and we will not be able to distribute funds from our trust account to holders of our common stock sold in our initial public offering, and these funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and liquidation and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. However, we cannot assure you that our stockholders will approve our dissolution in a timely manner or will ever approve our dissolution. As a result, we cannot provide investors with assurances of a specific timeframe for the dissolution and distribution. Because we have not currently selected any target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business’ operations. Because we have not yet selected a target business with which to engage in a business combination, we and our investors have no current basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business’ operations. While we do not intend to target financially unstable companies or companies in the development stage, to the extent we complete a business combination with such a company, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. We would consider a company to be financially unstable if, for example, a substantial portion of its cash flow were dedicated to its debt service obligations or its expected capital expenditure requirements exceeded the ability of the target business to fund them. In addition, we would consider a business to be in its early stages of development or growth if it is newly formed and is in the process of developing its initial technologies, processes, services, or products. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to our investors than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. Subject to the limitations that a target business must be in the communications, media or technology industries and have a fair market value of at least 80.0% of our net assets at the time of the acquisition (all of our assets, including the funds held in the trust account other than the deferred underwriting discount, less our liabilities), we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. 7 As we will favor underperforming companies as business combination opportunities, we may be subject to the additional risks associated with the financial and operational condition of underperforming companies. As we evaluate business combination opportunities, we intend to favor underperforming companies that we believe have the potential to increase their performance substantially through changes in operations or strategy. As a result, following the consummation of any such business combination, we may be subject to additional risks that would not exist if we were to consummate a business combination with companies that are not underperforming. These risks may relate to, among other things, the following: • the potentially weak financial, operational and/or strategic position of the underperforming company; • identification and retention of individuals with the requisite skills and experience to replace the existing management of the acquired company; • dedication of substantial resources to restructuring the operations and finances of the acquired company; • development of strategic business initiatives, including, without limitation, sales and marketing plans and research and development plans, as well the identification of individuals or third parties capable of executing those initiatives; and • restructuring the acquired company’s operations to improve its business model, financial condition, and results of operations. To address each of the foregoing risks, we will be required to dedicate substantial financial and human resources which would otherwise be used by us to expand a business following the business combination, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Under Delaware law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains certain requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering that will apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: • $107.5 million of the proceeds from our initial public offering and the private placement and the deferred underwriting discount shall be placed into the trust account, which funds may not be disbursed from the trust account except (i) interest income earned on the trust account balance to pay any income taxes on such interest and (ii) up to $1.35 million of interest earned on the trust account, which has been released to us to cover a portion of our operating expenses, in connection with our initial business combination and upon our dissolution or as otherwise permitted in the amended and restated certificate of incorporation; • prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we will submit the business combination to our stockholders for approval; • we may consummate our initial business combination only if approved by a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders and public stockholders owning less than 20% of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights; • if our initial business combination is approved and consummated, public stockholders who voted against the business combination and exercised their conversion rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account; 8 • if our initial business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement is not signed within the time periods specified in this prospectus, our purpose and powers will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up, and then distributing to all of our public stockholders their pro rata share of the trust account; and • we may not consummate our initial business combination unless it meets the conditions specified in the prospectus for our initial public offering, including the requirement that the business combination must be with an operating business whose fair market value is equal to at least 80.0% of our net assets at the time of the acquisition (all of our assets, including the funds held in the trust account other than the deferred underwriting discount, less our liabilities). Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires that we obtain unanimous consent of our stockholders to amend the above-described provisions. However, the validity of unanimous consent provisions under Delaware law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the unanimous consent requirement constitutes a practical prohibition on amendment in violation of the stockholders’ implicit rights to amend the corporate charter. In that case, the above-described provisions would be amendable without unanimous consent and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders. There are a significant number of other blank check companies seeking business combination opportunities with whom we will be competing, which may make a business combination more difficult to find or to consummate on attractive terms. In identifying, evaluating and selecting a target business, we may encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including other blank check companies seeking to carry out a similar business plan. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of a target business. Furthermore: • our obligation to seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination or obtain necessary financial information may delay the completion of a transaction; • our obligation to convert into cash shares of common stock held by our public stockholders that vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights may reduce the resources available to us for a business combination; • our outstanding warrants and options, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses; and • the requirement to acquire an operating business that has a fair market value equal to at least 80.0% of our net assets at the time of such business acquisition (all of our assets, including the funds held in the trust account other than the deferred underwriting discount, less our liabilities), could require us to acquire the assets of several operating businesses at the same time, all of which sales would be contingent on the closings of the other sales, which could make it more difficult to consummate the business combination. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within such time periods, we will be forced to dissolve and distribute our assets. If we succeed in effecting a business combination, there will be, in all likelihood, intense competition from competitors of the target business. We cannot assure you that, subsequent to a business combination, we will have the resources or ability to compete effectively. 9 Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys, and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons including those beyond our control such as that more than 19.99% of our public shareholders vote against the transaction and opt to convert their stock into a pro rata share of the trust account even if a majority of our shareholders approve the transaction. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. We may issue shares of our capital stock to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 250,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, and 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share. We presently have 214,930,200 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants) and all of the 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this report to issue our securities, we will, in all likelihood, issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our securities; and • may subordinate the rights of holders of our common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock. We may issue debt securities or otherwise incur substantial debt to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this prospectus to issue any debt securities, or to otherwise incur additional debt, we may choose to incur substantial debt to complete a business combination. If we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and 10 • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. Our ability to effect a business combination and to execute any potential business plan afterwards will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination. Our ability to effect a business combination will be dependent upon the efforts of our executive officers. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Although we expect our officers and directors to remain associated with us following a business combination, they do not intend to assume the day-to-day operational management of our target business, and the precise role of our officers and directors will be the subject of negotiation in any business combination. We anticipate that the continuing association with us by our existing officers and directors following a business combination will focus on strategic and transactional activities, particularly activities relating to formulating and executing growth and expansion strategies and further business combinations. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate this point as part of any such combination. If we acquired a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain associated with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a business combination, it may be less likely that management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction by means of the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the target company possesses adequate management, the ability or likelihood of any of our officers or directors to continue to be associated with us following the consummation of a business combination will be one of, but not the determining factor as to whether a particular business combination opportunity will be considered by us or presented to our stockholders for approval. Following a business combination, we may seek to recruit additional managers to supplement the incumbent management of the target business. We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to recruit additional managers, or that any such additional managers we do recruit will have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary to enhance the incumbent management. We will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of management will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company and the securities laws, which could increase the time and resources we must expend to assist them in becoming familiar with the complex disclosure and financial reporting requirements imposed on U.S. public companies. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues that may adversely affect our operations. We will likely seek a business combination with one or more privately-held companies, which may present certain challenges to us, including the lack of available information about these companies. In accordance with our acquisition strategy, we will likely seek a business combination with one or more privately-held companies. Generally, very little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our management team to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, then we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. 11 We will probably complete only one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of the sponsor warrants, meaning our operations will depend on a single business that is likely to operate in a non-diverse industry or segment of an industry. Our initial business combination must be with a target business or businesses with a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account at the time of such business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $3.8 million). We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. Additionally, we may encounter numerous logistical issues if we pursue multiple target businesses, including the difficulty of coordinating the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings. We may also be exposed to the risk that our inability to satisfy conditions to closing with one or more target businesses would reduce the fair market value of the remaining target businesses in the combination below the required threshold of 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $3.8 million). Due to these added risks, we are more likely to choose a single target business with which to pursue a business combination than multiple target businesses. Unless we combine with a target business in a transaction in which the purchase price consists substantially of common stock and/or preferred stock, it is likely we will complete only our initial business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of the sponsor warrants. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may depend solely on the performance of a single business. If this occurs, our operations will be highly concentrated and we will be exposed to higher risk than other entities that have the resources to complete several business combinations, or that operate in, diversified industries or industry segments. Specifically, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination and result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business with which we combine, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. In order to meet our disclosure and financial reporting obligations under the federal securities laws, and in order to develop and seek to execute strategic plans for how we can increase the revenues and/or profitability of a target business, realize operating synergies or capitalize on market opportunities, we must conduct a due diligence investigation of one or more target businesses. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will surface all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We will encounter intense competition from entities having a business objective similar to ours, including other blank check companies, private equity groups and leveraged buyout funds, as well as operating businesses seeking strategic acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and completing business combinations. A number of these competitors possess greater technical, financial, human and other resources than we do. Our limited financial resources may have a negative effect on our 12 ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses. Further, because we must obtain stockholder approval of a business combination, this may delay the consummation of a transaction, while our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock held by public stockholders who elect conversion may reduce the financial resources available for a business combination. Our outstanding warrants and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. In addition, if our initial business combination entails a simultaneous purchase of several operating businesses owned by different sellers, we may be unable to coordinate a simultaneous closing of the purchases. This may result in a target business seeking a different buyer and our being unable to meet the threshold requirement that the target business has, or target businesses collectively have, a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $3.8 million) at the time of such combination. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of these factors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within such time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. Our current management may have a conflict of interest in connection with negotiating the terms of our initial business combination. Since our current management may negotiate the terms of our initial business combination as well as the terms of their employment or consulting arrangements, our current management may have a conflict of interest in attempting to negotiate terms that are favorable to our public stockholders in the acquisition agreement at the same time that they are negotiating terms in their employment or consulting arrangements that are favorable to them. Although management intends to fully exercise their fiduciary duty to negotiate terms in the acquisition agreement that are in the best interests of our public stockholders, management may fail to satisfy this fiduciary duty if they concurrently negotiate terms in their employment or consulting agreements that are unduly favorable to them. Our stockholders holding stock prior to the initial public offering, including all of our officers and directors, will not be reimbursed for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount of available proceeds not held in the trust account and up to $1.35 million of interest earned on the trust account released to us to cover a portion of our operating expenses, unless the business combination is consummated. The financial interest of our officers and directors could influence their motivation in selecting a target business, and thus there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our executive officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could impact our ability to consummate a business combination. For a complete discussion of the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the section below entitled “Management—Conflicts Of Interest.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Some of our officers and directors are affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Certain of our officers and directors are affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Itzhak Fisher, our chairman, is executive chairman of Nielsen Online, the 13 internet-focused division of The Nielsen Company; Yair Segev, one of our directors, is a Vice President of Nielsen Online; Mark Hirschhorn, one of our directors, is Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Radio Computing Services, Inc.; and Nir Tarlovsky, our Executive Vice President, Business Development, is a director of AdsMarket G.M. Ltd., an online advertising business. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with other entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those we intend to conduct. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. For a complete discussion of our management’s business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the sections below entitled “Management—Directors And Executive Officers” and “Management—Conflicts Of Interest.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. If we seek to effect a business combination with an entity that is directly or indirectly affiliated with one or more of our significant stockholders, conflicts of interest could arise. The Nielsen Company, with which Messrs. Fisher and Segev are affiliated, Radio Computing Services, Inc., with which Mr. Hirschhorn is affiliated, and AdsMarket G.M. Ltd., with which Mr. Tarlovsky is affiliated, are in the communications, media and technology industry. Our existing officers and directors are not currently aware of any specific opportunities to consummate a business combination with The Nielsen Company, Radio Computing Services, or AdsMarket, whether by the sale of assets, spin-off, divestiture or otherwise. We would, however, consider seriously such a transaction if any such opportunity were presented to us. If we became aware of and pursued an opportunity to seek a business combination with a target business with which one or more of our existing officers and directors may be affiliated, now or in the future, conflicts of interest could arise in connection with negotiating the terms of and completing the business combination. Accordingly, such officers and directors may become subject to conflicts of interest regarding us and other business ventures in which they may be involved, which conflicts may have an adverse effect on our ability to consummate a business combination. For a discussion of our management’s business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the sections below entitled “Management—Directors And Executive Officers” and “Management—Conflicts Of Interest.” All of our officers and directors beneficially own shares of, and warrants to purchase, our common stock which will not participate in liquidation distributions and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors own stock and, in some cases, warrants in our company, either directly or indirectly, but have waived their right to receive distributions upon our dissolution. The shares and warrants owned by our directors and officers will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and in timely completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our public stockholders’ best interest. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata portion of the trust account. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that 14 requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that our cash on hand will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If our cash on hand proves to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from converting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing is unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we will be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing may stall the development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Certain of our stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder votes in a manner that is not favorable to our public stockholders. Our officers, directors and special advisor directly or indirectly collectively own approximately 20.0% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Churchill Capital Partners LLC also owns sponsor warrants to purchase a further five million shares of common stock, which if exercised will further increase such stockholders’ ability to control us. At any annual or special meeting of stockholders that addresses any matter other than a business combination, such stockholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Although such stockholders have agreed that they will vote on a proposed business combination in accordance with the majority of shares of common stock voted by our public stockholders, we cannot assure you that such stockholders will not vote their shares on other matters in a manner that does not favor our public stockholders. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with our initial public offering, as part of the units, we issued warrants to purchase 13,472,000 shares of common stock. Churchill Capital Partners LLC, our principal stockholder, purchased a further 5,000,000 sponsor warrants in the private placement. To the extent that we desire to issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the sponsor warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you will experience dilution in your holdings. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. We may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. 15 Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Even in the event that our warrants become exercisable, you may be unable to exercise your warrants when desired, and, therefore, you may receive no value for your warrants if redeemed by us, or your warrants may expire worthless. The warrants issued as part of our units will become exercisable on the later of: • the completion of a business combination with a target business, and • March 1, 2008. Notwithstanding the occurrence of either such event, we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless, at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so and, if we do not maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and in no circumstances will we be required to cash settle any such warrant exercise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, the warrants may have no value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the warrants may expire worthless. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. If certain of our stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Churchill Capital Partners LLC and Messrs. Baxter, Brosh and Weisschädel (our former director) are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their shares (including sponsor warrants purchased in the private placement and the shares underlying the sponsor warrants) at any time, subject to the transfer restrictions imposed by the lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our initial public offering. If such stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares and sponsor warrants (including the shares that are issuable upon exercise of the sponsor warrants acquired in the private placement), then there may be an additional 8,110,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market, which will dilute the value of your shares. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or may request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our activities may be restricted, including: 16 • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trust agent only in “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 having a maturity date of 180 days or less. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are deemed to be subject to this Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expenses for which we have not accounted. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at the time of our business combination. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant consequences including: • reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. If the private placement was not conducted in compliance with applicable law, Churchill Capital Partners LLC may have the right to rescind its purchase of the sponsor warrants, which may require us to refund an aggregate of $5,000,000 to Churchill Capital Partners LLC. Although we believe that we conducted the private placement in accordance with applicable law, there is a risk that the sponsor warrants should have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and applicable blue sky laws. Although Churchill Capital Partners LLC has waived its right, if any, to rescind the sponsor warrants purchase as a remedy to our failure to register these securities, the waiver may not be enforceable in light of the public policy underlying Federal and state securities laws. If Churchill Capital Partners LLC brings a claim against us and successfully asserts rescission rights, we may be required to refund an aggregate of $5 million, plus interest, to it, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate a business combination, or, in the 17 event we do not complete a business combination within the period prescribed by our initial public offering, the amount available to our public stockholders upon our dissolution. Risks Related To Doing Business Outside The United States Because we may acquire a target business that is located outside the United States, we may encounter risks specific to one or more countries in which we ultimately operate. If we acquire a company that has operations outside the United States, we will be exposed to risks that could negatively impact our future results of operations following a business combination. The additional risks we may be exposed to in these cases include but are not limited to: • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • cultural and language differences; • foreign exchange controls; • crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and • deterioration of political relations with the United States. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial results. A target business with which we combine may do business and generate sales within other countries. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in such international operations. It is also possible that some or all of our operating expenses may be incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies in those countries where we have operations against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Risks related to the communications, media or technology industries We believe that the following risks will apply to us following the completion of a business combination with a target business in the communications, media or technology industries. The speculative nature of the communications, media or technology industries may negatively impact our results of operations. Certain segments of the communications, media or technology industries are highly speculative and historically have involved a substantial degree of risk. For example, the success of a particular platform, service or product depends upon unpredictable and changing factors, including the success of promotional efforts, the availability of alternatives, the public receptivity, general economic conditions, public acceptance and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we complete a business combination with a target business in such a segment, our operations may be adversely affected. If we are unable to protect our patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights following a business combination, competitors may be able to use our technology or intellectual property rights, which could weaken our competitive position. If we are successful in acquiring a target business and the target business is the owner of patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property as is often the case in our target industries, our success will 18 depend in part on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property rights for those assets, both in the United States and in other countries. In those circumstances, we may file applications for patents, copyrights and trademarks as our management deems appropriate. We cannot assure you that these applications, if filed, will be approved, or that we will have the financial and other resources necessary to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by others. Additionally, we cannot assure you that any patent, trademark or copyright obtained by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we are alleged to have infringed on the intellectual property or other rights of third parties, it could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. If, following a business combination, third parties allege that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights, privacy rights or publicity rights or have defamed them, we could become a party to litigation. These claims and any resulting lawsuits could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights and/or restrict our ability to publish and distribute the infringing or defaming content. We may not be able to comply with government regulations that may be adopted with respect to the communications, media or technology industries. Certain segments of the communications, media or technology industries have historically been subject to substantial regulation internationally and domestically at the Federal, state and local levels. In the past, the regulatory environment, particularly with respect to the communications industry has been fairly stringent. We cannot assure you that regulations currently in effect or adopted in the future will not cause us to modify or cease any of the operations then being conducted by a target business that we acquire. CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS The statements contained in this filing that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our or our management’s expectations, hopes, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future. In addition, any statements that refer to projections, forecasts or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. The words “anticipates,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intends,” “may,” “might,” “plan,” “possible,” “potential,” “predicts,” “project,” “should,” “would” and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements in this prospectus may include, for example, statements about our: • ability to complete a combination with one or more target businesses; • expectations about the trends in future development of our target industries; • success in retaining or recruiting, or changes required in, our officers, key employees or directors following a business combination; • officers and directors allocating their time to other businesses and potentially having conflicts of interest with our business or in approving a business combination, as a result of which they would then receive expense reimbursements and other financial benefits; • potential inability to obtain additional financing to complete a business combination; • limited pool of prospective target businesses; • potential change in control if we acquire one or more target businesses for stock; • public securities’ limited liquidity and trading; 19 • failure to list or delisting of our securities from the American Stock Exchange or an inability to have our securities listed on the American Stock Exchange following a business combination; • use of proceeds not held in the trust account; or • our financial performance. The forward-looking statements contained in this filing are based on our current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting us will be those that we have anticipated. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those factors described under the heading “Risk Factors.” Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws and/or if and when management knows or has a reasonable basis on which to conclude that previously disclosed projections are no longer reasonably attainable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 