Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures 1 PART I The terms “our,” “the Partnership,” “we” and “us” when used in this report refer to Universal Compression Partners, L.P. References to “our predecessor”, “Universal Compression Partners Predecessor” or like terms refer to the natural gas contract compression business that is provided in the United States of America by Universal Compression Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Universal Compression Holdings”). DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS All forward-looking statements included in this report are based on information available to us on the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained throughout this report. This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). All statements other than statements of historical fact contained in this report are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding future financial position, business strategy, proposed acquisitions, budgets, litigation, projected costs and plans and objectives of management for future operations. You can identify many of these statements by looking for words such as “believes,” “expects,” “will,” “intends,” “projects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “continues” or similar words or the negative thereof. Such forward-looking statements in this report include, without limitation: · our business growth strategy and projected costs; · our future financial position; · the sufficiency of available cash flows to make cash distributions; · the expected timing and amount of our capital expenditures; · anticipated cost savings, future revenue, EBITDA, as further adjusted, gross margin and other financial or operational measures related to our business; · the future value of our equipment; · plans and objectives of our management for our future operations; · any potential contribution of additional assets from Universal Compression Holdings to us; and · the ability of Universal Compression Holdings to successfully complete its proposed merger with Hanover Compressor Company (“Hanover”), and our ability to enter into suitable substitute arrangements upon the termination of certain provisions of our Omnibus Agreement with Universal Compression Holdings as discussed further in Part I, Item 1 (“Business – Overview”) of this report. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated as of the date of this report. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, no assurance can be given that these expectations will prove to be correct. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements include, among other things, those set forth in Part I, Item 1A (“Risk Factors”) and Part II, Item 7 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) of this report and those set forth from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), which are available through our Investor Relations link at www.universalcompression.com and through the SEC’s Electronic Data Gathering and Retrieval System (“EDGAR”) at www.sec.gov. All forward-looking statements included in this report are, unless otherwise stated, based on information available to us on the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a 2 result of new information, future events or otherwise. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained throughout this report. ITEM 1. Business Overview We are a Delaware limited partnership formed in June 2006 by Universal Compression Holdings, (NYSE: (“UCO,”)) to provide natural gas contract compression services to customers throughout the United States. Natural gas compression is a mechanical process whereby the pressure of a volume of natural gas at an existing pressure is increased to a desired higher pressure for transportation from one point to another, and is essential to the transportation and production of natural gas. We believe we are one of the ten largest compression services companies in the United States by horsepower. Our contract compression services include designing, sourcing, owning, installing, operating, servicing, repairing and maintaining equipment to provide compression to our customers. We also monitor our customers’ compression services requirements over time and, as necessary, modify the level of services and related equipment we employ to address changing operating conditions. For accounting and financial reporting purposes, we are consolidated into Universal Compression Holdings. In October 2006, we completed an initial public offering of 6,325,000 of our common units at a price of $21.00 per unit, including 825,000 common units sold pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters’ overallotment option. The common units sold to the public represent a 49% limited partner interest in us. The net proceeds of the offering were $120.7 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and expenses associated with the offering. In connection with the initial public offering: · Universal Compression Holdings contributed to us contract compression services contracts with nine customers and a fleet of compressor units to service those customers, comprising approximately 330,000 horsepower, or approximately 17% (by available horsepower) of Universal Compression Holdings’ domestic contract compression business at the time; · we assumed $228.4 million in debt from Universal Compression Holdings; · Universal Compression Holdings received 825,000 common units and 6,325,000 subordinated units representing limited partner interests in us; and · we issued to our general partner, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Universal Compression Holdings, a 2% general partner interest in us and all of the incentive distribution rights in us, which entitle our general partner to increasing percentages of the cash we distribute in excess of $0.4025 per unit per quarter. We used the aggregate net proceeds from the offering to repay a portion of the debt we assumed from Universal Compression Holdings and to redeem the 825,000 common units we issued to Universal Compression Holdings. Also in connection with the initial public offering, we entered into an omnibus agreement with Universal Compression Holdings (the “Omnibus Agreement”), the terms of which include, among other things: · when we and Universal Compression Holdings may compete with each other; · Universal Compression Holdings’ agreement to provide to us operational staff, corporate staff and support services necessary to run our business; · the terms under which we may purchase from Universal Compression Holdings newly fabricated equipment and under which we may transfer to and receive from Universal Compression Holdings idle compression equipment; and · an agreement by Universal Compression Holdings to provide caps on the amount of cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses that we must pay. The caps are determined on a quarterly basis and expire on December 31, 2008. 3 As detailed in the Omnibus Agreement, any new contract compression customers that have not historically been customers of Universal Compression Holdings will be included in our customer portfolio for our account. Certain provisions of the Omnibus Agreement would terminate in connection with the proposed merger between Universal Compression Holdings and Hanover as described below. Universal Compression Holdings intends for us to be the primary vehicle for the growth of its domestic contract compression business. As we have a lower cost of capital due to our partnership structure, Universal Compression Holdings intends to offer us the opportunity to purchase the remainder of its domestic contract compression business over time, but is not obligated to do so. Likewise, we are not required to purchase any additional portions of such business. The consummation of any future purchases of additional portions of that business and the timing of such purchases will depend upon, among other things, our reaching an agreement with Universal Compression Holdings regarding the terms of such purchase, which will require the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, and our ability to finance such a purchase on acceptable terms. Universal Compression Holdings does not currently intend to offer us the opportunity to purchase its international contract compression, aftermarket services or fabrication businesses. Universal Compression Holdings, which has been in the natural gas compression business for over 50 years, provides a full range of natural gas compression services and products, including sales, operations, maintenance and fabrication to the natural gas industry, both domestically and internationally. As mentioned above, under the terms of the Omnibus Agreement, Universal Compression Holdings supports our operations by providing us with all operational and administrative support necessary to conduct our business. UCO General Partner, LP, our general partner, is an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Universal Compression Holdings and has sole responsibility for conducting our business and for managing our operations, which are conducted through our wholly-owned operating partnership, UC Operating Partnership, L.P. Because our general partner is a limited partnership, its general partner, UCO GP, LLC, conducts our business and operations, and the board of directors and officers of UCO GP, LLC make decisions on our behalf. All of those directors are elected by Universal Compression Holdings. Our general partner does not receive any management fee or other compensation in connection with the management of our business, but it is entitled to reimbursement of all direct and indirect expenses incurred on our behalf subject to caps included in the Omnibus Agreement. Our general partner is also entitled to distributions on its limited partner interest, general partner interest and, if specified requirements are met, on its incentive distribution rights. Unlike shareholders in a publicly traded corporation, our unitholders are not entitled to elect our general partner, our general partner’s general partner or its directors. In December 2005, Universal Compression Holdings’ board of directors approved a change to its fiscal year end from March 31 to December 31, effective in 2005. As a result of this change, our predecessor is reporting a nine-month transition period ended December 31, 2005. Recent Developments In February 2007, Universal Compression Holdings and Hanover Compressor Company entered into a merger agreement. Upon consummation of the transactions set forth in the merger agreement, each common share of Hanover will be converted into 0.325 shares of common stock of a newly created holding company, and each common share of Universal Compression Holdings will be converted into one share of the newly created holding company. Hanover will be treated as the acquirer for accounting purposes. The merger agreement has been unanimously approved by both companies’ boards of directors. Completion of the merger is subject to a number of conditions, including the approval of the stockholders of both companies and customary regulatory approvals, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, the receipt of consents under each company’s respective bank credit facilities and the arrangement of financings to provide sufficient funds to repay or repurchase any indebtedness required to be repaid upon consummation of the merger and the absence of any material adverse effect with respect to Hanover’s and Universal Compression Holdings’ business. The merger agreement requires Universal Compression Holdings and Hanover to continue to operate their businesses in the ordinary course of business and to obtain the other party’s consent prior to engaging in certain specified activities, such as issuing or repurchasing securities, acquiring or disposing of businesses above specified thresholds, incurring new debt other than below specified thresholds or for specified purposes, paying dividends or granting awards with respect to Universal Compression Holdings’ common stock (other than under employee compensation arrangements). These agreements are 4 subject to specified exceptions, including those (1) permitting Universal Compression Holdings to repurchase up to an additional $75 million of its common stock in accordance with its previously announced open-market stock repurchase program, (2) permitting us to make cash distributions in accordance with our partnership agreement, (3) permitting Universal Compression Holdings to make contributions of its domestic compression assets to us and (4) permitting Universal Compression Holdings to redeem its 7 1/4% senior notes due 2010. Upon the closing of the proposed merger, we would remain a subsidiary of Universal Compression Holdings, and Universal Compression Holdings would become a wholly owned subsidiary of a new, publicly traded holding company. The closing of the proposed merger of Universal Compression Holdings and Hanover, if completed, could constitute a change of control of Universal Compression Holdings under the Omnibus Agreement, which would cause a termination of the non-competition and equipment-sharing provisions of the Omnibus Agreement. We expect to negotiate and enter into suitable substitute arrangements with Universal Compression Holdings that would take effect upon the termination of these provisions of the Omnibus Agreement, although we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to do so. Further information concerning the structure and details of the proposed merger is set forth in Universal Compression Holdings’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 5, 2007, which includes, as exhibits, the merger agreement and a joint press release from Universal Compression Holdings and Hanover announcing the execution of the merger agreement. Natural Gas Compression Industry Overview Natural gas compression is a mechanical process whereby the pressure of a volume of natural gas at an existing pressure is increased to a desired higher pressure for transportation from one point to another, and is essential to the transportation and production of natural gas. Compression is typically required several times during the natural gas production and transportation cycle, including: (1) at the wellhead; (2) throughout gathering and distribution systems; (3) into and out of processing and storage facilities; and (4) along intrastate and interstate pipelines. · Wellhead and Gathering Systems - Compression at the wellhead is required because, at some point during the life of an oil or gas well, natural reservoir pressure typically declines as reserves are produced. As the natural reservoir pressure of the well declines below the line pressure of the gas gathering or pipeline system used to transport the gas to market, gas no longer naturally flows into the pipeline. Compression equipment is applied in both field and gathering systems to boost the well’s pressure levels allowing gas to be transported to market. The continually dropping pressure levels in natural gas fields require periodic modification and variation of on-site compression equipment. Natural gas compression that is used to transport gas from the wellhead through the gathering system is considered “field compression.” Compression is also used to reinject natural gas into producing oil wells to maintain reservoir pressure and help lift liquids to the surface, known as secondary oil recovery or gas lift operations. Typically, these applications require portable, low- to mid-range horsepower compression equipment located at or near the wellhead. Compression equipment is also used to increase the efficiency of a low capacity gas field by providing a central compression point from which the gas can be produced and injected into a pipeline for transmission to facilities for further processing. In an effort to reduce costs for wellhead operators, operators of gathering systems tend to keep the pressure of the gathering systems low. As a result, more pressure is often needed to force the gas from the low pressure gathering systems into the higher pressure pipelines. · Pipeline Transportation Systems - Natural gas compression that is used during the transportation of gas from the gathering systems to storage or the end user is considered “pipeline compression.” As gas is transported through a pipeline, compressor units are applied all along the pipeline to allow the natural gas to continue to flow through the pipeline to its destination. These applications generally require larger horsepower compression equipment (1,000 horsepower and higher). · Storage Facilities - Natural gas compression is used in gas storage projects to inject gas into underground reservoirs during off-peak seasons to withdraw later during periods of high demand. · Processing Applications - Compressors may also be used in combination with oil and gas production equipment to process and refine oil and gas into more marketable energy sources. In addition, compression services are used for compressing feedstocks in refineries and petrochemical plants, and for refrigeration applications in natural gas processing plants. 5 Gas producers, transporters and processors historically owned and maintained most of the compression equipment used in their operations. Many producers, transporters and processors have increasingly outsourced their compression services due to the benefits and flexibility of contract compression. Changing well and pipeline pressures and conditions over the life of a well often require producers to reconfigure or replace their compressor units to optimize the well production or gathering system efficiency. We believe outsourcing contract compression services offers customers: · the ability to efficiently meet their changing compression needs over time while limiting their capital investments in compression equipment and the underutilization of their existing compression equipment; · access to the compression services provider’s specialized personnel and technical skills, including engineers and field service and maintenance employees, which generally leads to improved production rates and/or increased throughput; · the ability to increase their revenue by transporting or producing a higher volume of natural gas through decreased compression downtime and reduced operating, maintenance and equipment costs by allowing the compression service provider to efficiently manage their changing compression needs; and · the flexibility to deploy their capital on projects more directly related to their primary business by reducing their compression equipment and maintenance capital requirements. We believe the domestic natural gas compression services industry continues to have significant growth potential due to the following factors: · aging producing natural gas fields which will require more compression to continue producing the same volume of natural gas; and · increasing production from unconventional sources, which include tight sands, shale and coal bed methane, which generally require more compression than production from conventional sources to produce the same volume of natural gas. Key Operating and Financial Statistics The following table illustrates our and our predecessor’s key operating and financial statistics during the periods as indicated. We were formed in June 2006, but we commenced operations on October 20, 2006. As a result, operating and financial data in the table below is shown for us for the period in 2006 in which we had operations. Universal Compression Partners, L.P. Universal Compression Partners Predecessor October 20, 2006 through December 31, January 1, 2006 through October 19, Nine Months Ended December 31, Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2006 2006 2005 2005 (In thousands, except percentages) Horsepower (end of period) 343 2,024 1,965 1,925 Average horsepower utilization rate 98.6 % 90.5 % 90.7 % 88.0 % Revenue $ 13,465 $ 317,973 $ 248,414 $ 296,239 Net income $ 2,705 $ 107,970 $ 84,004 $ 97,970 EBITDA, as further adjusted (1) $ 7,154 $ 169,287 $ 136,599 $ 160,890 (1) EBITDA, as further adjusted, is defined, reconciled to net income and discussed within Part II, Item 6 (“Selected Financial Data – Non-GAAP Financial Measures”) of this report. 6 Contract Compression Services Overview We provide comprehensive contract compression services, which include our provision at the customer’s location of our personnel, equipment, tools, materials and supplies necessary to provide the amount of gas compression for which the customer has contracted. Based on the operating specifications at the customer’s location and the customer’s unique compression needs, these services include designing, sourcing, owning, installing, operating, servicing, repairing and maintaining equipment to provide compression to our customers. When providing contract compression services, we work closely with a customer’s field service personnel so that the compression services can be adjusted to efficiently match changing characteristics of the reservoir and the gas produced. We routinely repackage or reconfigure a portion of our existing fleet to adapt to our customers’ compression services needs. We utilize both slow and high speed reciprocating compressors driven either by internal combustion engines or electric motors. We also utilize rotary screw compressors for specialized applications. Our compression equipment is maintained in accordance with daily, weekly, monthly and annual maintenance schedules. These maintenance procedures are updated as technology changes and as Universal Compression Holdings’ operations group develops new techniques and procedures. In addition, because Universal Compression Holdings’ field technicians provide maintenance on substantially all of our contract compression equipment, they are familiar with the condition of our equipment and can readily identify potential problems. We expect that these procedures will maximize equipment life and unit availability and minimize avoidable downtime, as that has been the experience of Universal Compression Holdings. Generally, each of our units undergoes a major overhaul once every three to nine years, depending on the type and size of the compressor unit, but because of the size of our fleet, we expect such overhauls to take place on a relatively consistent ongoing basis. A major overhaul involves the rebuilding of the unit to materially extend its economic useful life or to enhance the unit’s ability to fulfill broader or different contract compression applications. If a unit requires maintenance or reconfiguration, we expect Universal Compression Holdings’ maintenance personnel will service it as quickly as possible to meet the needs of the customer. If providing the appropriate unit would entail significant overhaul cost, the salesperson will communicate with the customer, engineer and field service personnel and contact a supervisor to determine the timing of the required maintenance or overhaul. We and our customers typically contract for our services on an application specific, or site-by-site, basis. Our customers generally are required to pay our monthly fee even during periods of limited or disrupted natural gas flows, which enhances the stability and predictability of our cash flows. Additionally, because we do not take title to the natural gas we compress, and because the natural gas we use as fuel for our compressors is supplied by our customers, our direct exposure to commodity price risk is further reduced. See “General Contract Compression Contract Terms,” below, for a more detailed description. Operations The contract compression services we provide include designing, sourcing, owning, installing, operating, servicing, repairing and maintaining equipment to provide compression to our customers. When providing contract compression services, we work closely with a customer’s field service personnel so that the compression services can be adjusted to efficiently match changing characteristics of the natural gas produced. We routinely repackage or reconfigure a portion of our existing fleet to adapt to our customers’ compression services needs. We intend to continue to work with Universal Compression Holdings to attempt to manage our respective domestic fleets as one pool of compression equipment from which we can each readily fulfill our respective customers’ needs. When one of Universal Compression Holdings’ salespersons is advised of a new compression services opportunity for us, he or she will obtain relevant information concerning the project, including gas flow, pressure and gas composition, and then he or she will review both our fleet and the fleet of Universal Compression Holdings for an available appropriate compressor unit. If an appropriate compressor unit is not available in either our fleet or the fleet of Universal Compression Holdings, the salesperson will then look to third parties for idle equipment available for purchase. In the event that a customer presents us with an opportunity to provide compression services for a project with appropriate lead time, we may choose to purchase newly-fabricated equipment from Universal Compression Holdings or others to fulfill our customer’s needs. Please read Part III, Item 13 (“Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence”) of this report for additional information regarding our ability to share or exchange compression equipment with, or purchase equipment from, Universal Compression Holdings. 7 As of December 31, 2006, our fleet consisted of 829 compressors, as reflected in the following table: Total Horsepower As of % of Total Horsepower As of Number of Units As of December 31, December 31, December 31, Horsepower Range 2006 2006 2006 0-99 17,816 5.2 % 239 100-299 47,984 14.0 % 256 300-599 45,988 13.4 % 117 600-999 61,350 17.9 % 85 1,000 and over 169,872 49.5 % 132 Total 343,010 100.0 % 829 Over the last several years, Universal Compression Holdings has undertaken to standardize its compressor fleet around major components and key suppliers. Because our fleet consists of a portion of Universal Compression Holdings’ former fleet, we, too, benefit from the standardization. This high level of standardization of our fleet: · enables us to minimize our fleet operating costs and maintenance capital requirements; · facilitates low-cost compressor resizing; and · allows us to develop improved technical proficiency in our maintenance and overhaul operations, which enables us to achieve high run-time rates while maintaining low operating costs. As mentioned above, pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, Universal Compression Holdings provides us with all operational staff, corporate staff and support services necessary to run our business. Business Strategy Our business strategies are to: · meet the evolving compression needs of our customers by providing consistent and dependable services; · expand our operations by, among other things, taking advantage of our relationship with Universal Compression Holdings; · generate stable cash flows sufficient to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders; and · increase quarterly cash distributions per unit over time. The key elements of our business strategy are described below: · Leverage our relationship with Universal Compression Holdings. Our relationship with Universal Compression Holdings provides us numerous revenue and cost advantages, including the ability to access new and idle compression equipment, deploy that equipment in most of the major natural gas producing regions in the United States and provide maintenance and operational support on a more cost effective basis than we could without that relationship. · Build our business organically by capitalizing on the positive long-term fundamentals for the domestic natural gas compression industry. We believe our ability to efficiently manage our customers’ changing compression needs, including by providing assurance in many of our customer contracts that our compression service will be available at least 95% of the time, our long-standing customer relationships and our large compressor fleet will enable us to capitalize on what we believe are positive fundamentals for the domestic natural gas compression industry, including increasing unconventional gas production, which typically requires significantly more compression than conventional production, and the continued outsourcing of compression services. 8 · Grow our business through accretive acquisitions. We plan to grow through accretive acquisitions of assets from Universal Compression Holdings, third-party compression providers and natural gas transporters or producers. In connection with the closing of our initial public offering, Universal Compression Holdings contributed to us approximately 17% (by available horsepower) of its domestic contract compression services business at that time and intends to offer to us the remaining portion of that business for purchase over time. We also believe there are a number of opportunities to acquire compression equipment from natural gas transporters or producers and in turn offer them contract compression services as a cost-effective alternative. We believe that our publicly traded limited partnership structure provides us additional financing options and an attractive currency to pursue such acquisitions. Competitive Strengths We believe that we are well positioned to execute our primary business objectives and strengths successfully because we have the following key competitive strengths: · Our relationship with Universal Compression Holdings. Our relationship with Universal Compression Holdings and our access to its personnel, fabrication operations, logistical capabilities, geographic scope and operational efficiencies allow us to provide a full complement of contract compression services while maintaining lower operating costs than we could otherwise achieve. This relationship also provides us an advantage in pursuing compression opportunities throughout the United States. As of December 31, 2006, Universal Compression Holdings owned approximately 1.7 million horsepower of compression equipment, excluding the compression equipment owned by us, in its domestic contract compression business. We believe we will benefit from Universal Compression Holdings’ intention to offer us the opportunity to purchase that business over time. · Stable and growing fee-based cash flows. We charge a fixed monthly fee for our compression services that our customers are generally required to pay, regardless of the volume of natural gas we compress in that month. We believe this fee structure reduces volatility and enhances our ability to generate relatively stable, predictable cash flows. · Large fleet in many major producing regions. Our large fleet and numerous operating locations throughout the United States, combined with our ability, as a result of our relationship with Universal Compression Holdings, to efficiently move equipment among producing regions, means that we are not dependent on production activity in any particular region. We provide compression services in some of the fastest growing natural gas producing regions in the United States, including the Barnett Shale and Rocky Mountains, which we believe will allow us to generate organic growth in our business. · Long-standing customer relationships. Universal Compression Holdings has developed long-standing customer relationships by efficiently managing customers’ changing compression needs. Customers who had continuous relationships of at least five years with Universal Compression Holdings represented greater than 80% of our revenue for the period June 22, 2006 through December 31, 2006. These relationships provide a firm platform for our continued organic growth as we continue to seek to meet our customers’ increasing compression needs. · Strong management team with a track record of substantial organic and acquisition growth. Our management team and the board of directors of our general partner include senior officers from Universal Compression Holdings who have over 80 combined years of experience in the compression services business. From Universal Compression Holdings’ initial public offering in 2000 through December 31, 2006, this management team has grown Universal Compression Holdings’ total consolidated compressor fleet, including our fleet, by approximately 2.0 million horsepower, or 323%. A significant portion of this growth was organic and driven by Universal Compression Holdings’ reputation as a reliable, cost-effective operator. In addition to generating such organic growth, our management team completed five acquisitions of contract compression services businesses during this period that added approximately 1.3 million horsepower to Universal Compression Holdings’ fleet. 9 Our Relationship with Universal Compression Holdings One of our principal attributes is our relationship with Universal Compression Holdings, a leading natural gas compression services company that provides a full range of contract compression, sales, operations, maintenance and fabrication services to the domestic and international natural gas industry. Universal Compression Holdings has a long history of successfully achieving organic growth and consummating and integrating acquisitions, and intends to use us as its primary growth vehicle for its domestic contract compression services business. We believe our relationship with Universal Compression Holdings will continue to provide us access to management talent and long-standing commercial relationships throughout the energy industry. In addition, we believe that our relationship with Universal Compression Holdings also provides us with the following benefits: · Universal Compression Holdings intends, but is not obligated, to offer us over time the opportunity to purchase the remainder of its domestic contract compression business; · Universal Compression Holdings intends, but is not obligated, to offer us the opportunity to purchase newly fabricated compression equipment; and · We and Universal Compression Holdings intend to continue to manage our respective domestic compression fleets as one pool of compression equipment from which we can more easily fulfill our respective customers’ needs. Specifically, when one of our salespersons is advised of a new compression services opportunity, he or she will obtain relevant information concerning the project including gas flow, pressure and gas composition, and then he or she will review both our fleet and the fleet of Universal Compression Holdings for an available appropriate compressor unit. If an appropriate compressor unit is not available in either our fleet or the fleet of Universal Compression Holdings, the salesperson will then look to third parties for idle equipment available for purchase. In the event that a customer presents us with an opportunity to provide compression services for a project with appropriate lead time, we may choose to purchase newly-fabricated equipment from Universal Compression Holdings or others to fulfill our customer’s needs. Please read Part III, Item 13 (“Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence”) of this report for additional information regarding our Omnibus Agreement and our ability to share compression equipment with, or purchase compression equipment from, Universal Compression Holdings. Oil and Gas Industry Cyclicality and Volatility Our financial performance is generally less affected by the short-term market cycles and oil and gas price volatility than the financial performance of companies operating in other sectors of the oilfield services industry because: · our operations are tied primarily to natural gas production and consumption, which are generally less cyclical in nature than exploration activities; · compression is necessary for gas to be delivered from the wellhead to end users; and · outsourcing of compression is often economically advantageous for natural gas production, gathering and transportation companies. Our large fleet and numerous operating locations throughout the United States combined with our ability, as a result of our relationship with Universal Compression Holdings, to access new and idle compression equipment and efficiently move equipment among producing regions, means that we are not dependent on production activity in any particular region. Furthermore, while compressors often must be specifically engineered or reconfigured to allow us to tailor our contract compression services to meet the unique demands of our customers, the fundamental technology of compression equipment has not historically experienced significant technological change. Generally, our overall business activity and revenue increase as the demand for natural gas increases. Demand for our compression services is linked more directly to natural gas consumption and production than to exploration activities, which limits our direct exposure to commodity price risk. Because we do not take title to the natural gas we compress, and because the natural gas we use as fuel for our compressors is provided to us by our customers, our direct exposure to commodity price risk is further reduced. 10 Seasonal Fluctuations Neither our results of operations, nor those of our predecessor, have historically reflected any material seasonal tendencies, nor do we currently believe that seasonal fluctuations will have a material impact in the foreseeable future. Customers Our current customer base consists of 14 companies, including those we have added since our initial public offering, who are engaged in various aspects of the oil and gas industry, including natural gas producers, processors, gatherers and transporters. We have entered into strategic alliances with some of our customers. These alliances are essentially preferred vendor arrangements and give us preferential consideration for the compression needs of these customers. In exchange, we provide these customers with enhanced product availability, product support and favorable pricing. During the period June 22, 2006 through December 31, 2006, the following customers accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue: Dominion Exploration and Production, Inc. and Samson Investment Company. Contracts with those companies contributed 53% of the Partnership’s revenue for the period. General Contract Compression Contract Terms The following discussion describes the material terms generally common to contracts used in connection with our contract compression customers. We enter into a new contract with a given customer with respect to each distinct application for which we will provide contract compression services. Term and Termination. We and our customers typically contract for our services on an application specific, or site-by-site basis. While our contracts typically have an initial term of six months, following which the contract would typically operate on a month-to-month basis until terminated by us or our customer, they generally run for an average duration of three years. Following the initial fixed term, either we or our customer may terminate a contract with 30 days’ notice. We charge a fixed monthly fee for our compression services. Our customers generally are required to pay our monthly fee even during periods of limited or disrupted natural gas flows. Fees and Expenses. Our customers pay a fixed monthly fee for our compression services, the level of which generally is based on expected natural gas volumes and pressures associated with a specific application. We are not responsible for acts of force majeure and our customers generally are required to pay our monthly fee even during periods of limited or disrupted natural gas flows. We are responsible for the costs and expenses associated with our compression equipment, other than fuel gas, which is provided by our customers. Service Standards and Specifications. We are responsible for providing contract compression services in accordance with the particular specifications of a job, as set forth in the applicable contract. These are typically turn-key service contracts under which we supply all service and support and use our own compression equipment as necessary for a particular application. Title; Risk of Loss. All compression equipment we use in connection with our provision of compression services remains our property and we bear risk of loss for our equipment to the extent not caused by an act or omission of our customer. Insurance. Both we and our customers are required to carry general liability, worker’s compensation, employers’ liability, automobile and excess liability insurance with respect to a particular project. Marketing and Sales Our marketing and client service functions are performed on a coordinated basis by Universal Compression Holdings’ sales and field service personnel. Salespeople and field service personnel regularly visit our customers to ensure customer satisfaction, to determine customer needs as to services currently being provided and to ascertain potential future compression services requirements. This ongoing communication allows us to quickly identify and respond to customer requests. Suppliers Currently, our sole supplier of newly fabricated equipment is Universal Compression Holdings. Under the Omnibus Agreement, we may purchase equipment at a fixed margin over its fabrication costs. We may also transfer compression 11 equipment with Universal Compression Holdings. We may also purchase newly fabricated or idle compression equipment from third parties. Many of our compressors were fabricated by Universal Compression Holdings. Universal Compression Holdings’ principal suppliers of parts for the compression equipment it fabricates include Caterpillar and Waukesha for engines, Air Xchangers for coolers and Ariel for compressors. Although Universal Compression Holdings relies primarily on these suppliers, it believes alternative sources are generally available but at prices that may not be as economically advantageous to Universal Compression Holdings as its existing suppliers. Universal Compression Holdings has not experienced any material supply problems to date, and believes its relations with its suppliers are good. Insurance The natural gas service operations business can be hazardous, involving unforeseen circumstances such as uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids and fires or explosions. As is customary in the natural gas service operations industry, we review our safety equipment and procedures and carry insurance against some, but not all, risks of our business. Insurance is provided through policies obtained by Universal Compression Holdings and includes property damage, general and commercial automobile liability and other coverage we believe is appropriate. We have elected to fully self-insure our offshore assets. We believe that these insurance coverages are customary for the industry and adequate for our business, however, losses and liabilities not covered by insurance would increase our costs. Competition The natural gas contract compression business is highly competitive. We face competition from large national and multinational companies with greater financial resources and, on a regional basis, from numerous smaller companies. Our main competitors in the contract compression business, based on horsepower, are Hanover, Universal Compression Holdings (as more fully described below), J-W Operating Company, Compressor Systems, Inc., USA Compression, Natural Gas Services Group, Inc., CDM Compression, Tetra Technologies, Inc., Enerflex Systems, Ltd. and Valerus Compression Services, LLC. We believe that we compete effectively on the basis of price and customer service, including the availability of our personnel in remote locations, technical expertise, flexibility in meeting customer needs and quality and reliability of our compressors and related services. Compression services providers can achieve operating and cost advantages through increased size and geographic scope. As the number of compression applications and size of the compression fleet increases, the number of required sales, administrative and maintenance personnel does not increase proportionately, resulting in operational efficiencies and potential cost advantages. Additionally, broad geographic scope allows compression services providers to more efficiently provide services to all customers, particularly those with compression applications in remote locations. We believe that our relationship with Universal Compression Holdings allows us to access a large, diverse fleet of compression equipment and a broad geographic base of operations and related operational personnel that gives us more flexibility in meeting our customers’ needs than many of our competitors. We also believe that our relationship with Universal Compression Holdings and its over 50-year history of providing its customers with compression services provides us with resources that allow us to efficiently manage our customers’ compression services needs. Non-competition arrangement with Universal Compression Holdings Under the Omnibus Agreement, subject to the provisions described below, Universal Compression Holdings agreed to not offer or provide compression services in the United States to our contract compression services customers. Compression services are defined to include the provision of natural gas contract compression services, but excludes fabrication of compression equipment, sales of compression equipment or material, parts or equipment that are components of compression equipment, leasing of compression equipment without also providing related compression equipment service and operating, maintenance, service, repairs or overhauls of compression equipment owned by third parties. In addition, under the Omnibus Agreement, we agreed to not offer or provide compression services to Universal Compression Holdings’ domestic contract compression services customers. 12 Universal Compression Holdings also agreed that new customers for contract compression services (neither our customers nor customers of Universal Compression Holdings for domestic contract compression services at the time of the offering) are for our account unless the new customer is unwilling to contract with us or unwilling to do so under our form of compression services agreement. If a new customer is unwilling to enter into such an arrangement with us, then Universal Compression Holdings may provide compression services to the new customer. In the event that either we or Universal Compression Holdings enter into a contract to provide compression services to a new customer, either we or Universal Compression Holdings, as applicable, will receive the protection of the applicable non-competition arrangements described above in the same manner as if such new customer had been a compression services customer of either us or Universal Compression Holdings at the time of the completion of our initial public offering. The non-competition arrangements described above do not apply to: · Our provision of compression services to a particular Universal Compression Holdings customer or customers, with the approval of Universal Compression Holdings; · Universal Compression Holdings’ provision of compression services to a particular customer or customers of ours, with the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner; · Our purchase and ownership of not more than five percent of any class of securities of any entity which provides compression services to the compression services customers of Universal Compression Holdings; · Universal Compression Holdings’ purchase and ownership of not more than five percent of any class of securities of any entity which provides compression services to our compression services customers; · Universal Compression Holdings’ ownership of us; · Our acquisition, ownership and operation of any business that provides compression services to Universal Compression Holdings’ compression services customers if Universal Compression Holdings has been offered the opportunity to purchase the business for its fair market value from us and Universal Compression Holdings declines to do so. However, if neither the Omnibus Agreement nor the non-competition arrangements described above have already terminated, we will agree not to provide compression services to Universal Compression Holdings’ customers that are also customers of the acquired business at the sites at which Universal Compression Holdings is providing compression services to them at the time of the acquisition; · Universal Compression Holdings’ acquisition, ownership and operation of any business that provides compression services to our compression services customers if we have been offered the opportunity to purchase the business for its fair market value from Universal Compression Holdings and we decline to do so with the concurrence of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner. However, if neither the Omnibus Agreement nor the non-competition arrangements described above have already terminated, Universal Compression Holdings will agree not to provide compression services to our customers that are also customers of the acquired business at the sites at which we are providing compression services to them at the time of the acquisition; or · A situation in which one of our customers (or its applicable business) and a customer of Universal Compression Holdings (or its applicable business) merge or are otherwise combined, in which case, each of we and Universal Compression Holdings may continue to provide compression services to the applicable combined entity or business without being in violation of the non-competition provisions, but Universal Compression Holdings and the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner must negotiate in good faith to implement procedures or such other arrangements, as necessary, to protect the value to each of Universal Compression Holdings and us of the business of providing compression services to each such customer or its applicable business, as applicable. Unless the Omnibus Agreement is terminated earlier due to a change of control of our general partner or the removal or withdrawal of our general partner, or from a change of control of Universal Compression Holdings, the non-competition provisions of the Omnibus Agreement will terminate on either the third anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering or on the date in which a change of control of Universal Compression Holdings, whichever event occurs first. If a change of control of Universal Compression Holdings occurs, and neither the Omnibus Agreement nor the non-competition arrangements have already terminated, Universal Compression Holdings will agree for the remaining term of the non-competition arrangements not to provide compression services to our customers at the sites at which we are providing compression services to them at the 13 time of the change of control. The closing of the proposed merger between Universal Compression Holdings and Hanover, if completed, would cause a termination of the non-competition and equipment-sharing provisions of the Omnibus Agreement. However, we expect to negotiate and enter into suitable substitute arrangements with Universal Compression Holdings that will take effect upon the termination of these provisions of the Omnibus Agreement, although we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to do so. Please read Part I, Item 1A (“Risk Factors”) of this report for more information. Environmental and Other Regulations We are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of human health and the environment. Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations may expose us to significant costs and liabilities and cause us to incur significant capital expenditures in our operations. Moreover, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions delaying or prohibiting operations. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that continued compliance with current requirements would not have a material adverse effect on us. However, the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions on activities that may affect the environment, and thus, any changes in these laws and regulations that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Primary federal environmental laws that our operations are subject to include the Clean Air Act and regulations thereunder, which regulate air emissions; the Clean Water Act and regulations thereunder, which regulate the discharge of pollutants in industrial wastewater and storm water runoff; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and regulations thereunder, which regulate the management and disposal of solid and hazardous waste; and the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and regulations thereunder, known more commonly as “Superfund,” which regulates the release of hazardous substances in the environment. We are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”) and regulations thereunder, which regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. Analogous state laws and regulations may also apply. The Clean Air Act and implementing regulations establish limits on the levels of various substances that may be emitted into the atmosphere during the operation of our fleet of natural gas compressors. These substances are regulated in permits, which are applied for and obtained through the various regulatory agencies, either state or federal depending on the level of emissions. While our standard contract typically provides that the customer will assume the permitting responsibilities and environmental risks related to site operations, we have in some cases obtained air permits as the owner and operator of the compressors. Under most of our contract compression service agreements, our customers must indemnify us for certain losses or liabilities we may suffer as a result of the failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, including permit conditions. Increased obligations of operators to reduce air emissions of nitrogen oxides and other pollutants from internal combustion engines in transmission service are anticipated. For example, EPA recently proposed rules that would establish emission standards for new spark ignition engines and require emission controls of certain new and existing stationary reciprocating engines that were excluded from current regulation. As currently drafted, we do not expect these recently proposed rules to have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that those rules, once finalized, or any other new regulations requiring the installation of more sophisticated emission control equipment would not have a material adverse impact. In any event, we believe that in most cases these obligations would be allocated to our clients under our contracts. Moreover, we expect that such requirements would not have any more significant effect on our operations or financial condition than on any similarly situated company providing contract compression services. The Clean Water Act and implementing regulations prohibit the discharge of industrial wastewater without a permit and establish limits on the levels of pollutants contained in these discharges. In addition, the Clean Water Act regulates storm water discharges associated with industrial activities depending on a facility’s primary standard industrial classification. Many of Universal Compression Holdings’ facilities upon which we may store inactive compression units have applied for and obtained industrial wastewater discharge permits as well as sought coverage under local wastewater ordinances. In addition, many of those facilities have filed notices of intent for coverage under statewide storm water general permits and developed and implemented storm water pollution prevention plans, as required. Federal laws also require spill prevention, control, and countermeasures, including appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture, or leak at such facilities. 14 The RCRA and implementing regulations control the management and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. These laws and regulations govern the generation, storage, treatment, transfer and disposal of wastes that we generate including, but not limited to, used oil, antifreeze, filters, sludges, paint, solvents, and sandblast materials. The Environmental Protection Agency and various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for these types of wastes. In the United States, CERCLA and comparable state laws and regulations impose strict, joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain classes of persons that contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the owner and operator of a disposal site where a hazardous substance release occurred and any company that transported, disposed of, or arranged for the transport or disposal of hazardous substances released at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be liable for the costs of remediating the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources, and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for the neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs. While we do not own or lease any material facilities or properties, we may use Universal Compression Holdings’ properties pursuant to our Omnibus Agreement for the storage and possible maintenance and repair of inactive compressor units. Many of Universal Compression Holdings’ properties have been utilized for many years, including some by third parties over whom we have no control, in support of natural gas compression services or other industrial operations. Moreover, certain of the Universal Compression Holdings’ properties we use are currently undergoing remediation or groundwater monitoring by Universal Compression Holdings or by former owners and operators of those properties. While we are not currently responsible for any remedial activities at these properties we use pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, there is always the possibility that our future use of such properties, or of other properties where we provide contract compression services, may result in spills or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, wastes, or other regulated substances into the environment that may cause us to become subject to remediation costs and liabilities under CERCLA, RCRA or other environmental laws. We cannot provide any assurance that the costs and liabilities associated with the future imposition of such remedial obligations upon us would not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. We are subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes. These laws and the implementing regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right-to-know regulations under the Title III of CERCLA and similar state statutes require that we organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations. Indemnification for Environmental Liabilities Under the Omnibus Agreement, Universal Compression Holdings indemnifies us for three years from the closing of our initial public offering against certain potential environmental claims, losses and expenses associated with the operation of our assets and occurring before the closing date of our initial public offering. Universal Compression Holdings’ maximum liability for this indemnification obligation cannot exceed $5 million and Universal Compression Holdings will not have any obligation under this indemnification until our aggregate losses exceed $250,000. Universal Compression Holdings will have no indemnification obligations with respect to environmental claims made as a result of additions to or modifications of environmental laws promulgated after the closing date of our initial public offering. We have agreed to indemnify Universal Compression Holdings against environmental liabilities related to our assets to the extent Universal Compression Holdings is not required to indemnify us. Employees and Labor Relations We do not have any employees. Universal Compression Holdings or its affiliates employ approximately 1,800 persons who provide direct or indirect support for our operations under the terms of the Omnibus Agreement. At this time, none of those Universal Compression Holdings’ employees are covered by collective bargaining arrangements. We reimburse Universal Compression Holdings for the cost of those employees. Universal Compression Holdings considers its employee relations to be good. Available Information Our website address is www.universalcompression.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available on our website, without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Information contained on our website is not 15 incorporated by reference in this report or any of our other securities filings. Paper copies of our filings are also available, without charge, from Universal Compression Partners, L.P., 4444 Brittmoore Road, Houston, Texas 77041, Attention: Investor Relations. Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website address is www.sec.gov. Additionally, we make available free of charge on our website: · the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics of UCO GP, LLC; and · the charters of the audit, conflicts and compensation committees of UCO GP, LLC. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors As described in “Part I. Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” this report contains forward-looking statements regarding us, our business and our industry. The risk factors described below, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units and the trading price of our common units could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to make cash distributions to holders of our common units and subordinated units at the initial distribution rate under our cash distribution policy. In order to make our cash distributions at our initial distribution rate of $0.35 per common unit per complete quarter, or $1.40 per unit per year, we require available cash of approximately $4.5 million per quarter, or $18.1 million per year, based on the common units, subordinated units and general partner units outstanding as of December 31, 2006. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at the initial distribution rate under our cash distribution policy. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the risks described in this section. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: · the level of capital expenditures we make; · the cost of acquisitions; · our debt service requirements and other liabilities; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; · our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; · restrictions contained in our debt agreements; and · the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. 16 We depend on domestic demand for and production of natural gas, and a reduction in this demand or production could adversely affect the demand or the prices we charge for our services which could cause our revenue and cash available for distribution to decrease. Natural gas contract compression operations are significantly dependent upon the domestic demand for and production of natural gas. Demand may be affected by, among other factors, natural gas prices, weather, demand for energy and availability of alternative energy sources. Any prolonged, substantial reduction in the domestic demand for natural gas would, in all likelihood, depress the level of production activity and result in a decline in the demand for our contract compression services and products, which would reduce our cash available for distribution. A reduction in domestic demand could force us to reduce our pricing substantially. Additionally, production from unconventional natural gas sources such as tight sands, shales and coalbeds constitute an increasing percentage of our compression services business. Such unconventional sources are generally less economically feasible to produce in lower natural gas price environments and a reduction in natural gas demand may cause such unconventional sources of natural gas to be uneconomic to drill and produce, which could in turn negatively impact the demand for our services. We have a limited number of customers. The loss of any of these customers would result in a decline in our revenue and cash available to pay distributions to our unitholders. We have contracts to provide compression services with only a limited number of customers. Therefore, our loss of a single customer may have a greater effect on our financial results than for a company with a more diverse customer base. Our two largest customers for the period from June 22, 2006 to December 31, 2006, were Dominion Exploration and Production, Inc. and Samson Investment Company. These two customers accounted for approximately 37% and 16% of our revenue for the period from June 22, 2006 to December 31, 2006, respectively. The loss of all or even a portion of the contract compression services we provide to these customers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our agreement not to compete with Universal Compression Holdings limits our ability to grow. Under the Omnibus Agreement, we agreed that until the earliest to occur of the third anniversary of the closing of the offering, a change of control of Universal Compression Holdings or our general partner or the removal or withdrawal of our general partner, we will not offer or provide compression services in the United States to Universal Compression Holdings’ contract compression services customers not part of the business contributed to us in connection with the closing of our initial public offering. The domestic contract compression business that Universal Compression Holdings retained consisted of approximately 770 customers and 1.7 million horsepower of compression as of December 31, 2006. This agreement not to compete with Universal Compression Holdings limits our ability to grow. The completion of the proposed merger between Universal Compression Holdings and Hanover would pose certain risks to us, including a termination of important provisions of our Omnibus Agreement. The proposed merger between Universal Compression Holdings and Hanover, if completed, would constitute a “change of control” of Universal Compression Holdings under our Omnibus Agreement, which would cause a termination of the non-competition and equipment-sharing provisions of the Omnibus Agreement. Termination of these provisions of the Omnibus Agreement would mean, among other things, that: · Universal Compression Holdings and its affiliates could acquire, fabricate or dispose of additional natural gas compression or other assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets; · Universal Compression Holding would not be obligated to provide either newly-fabricated or existing idle compression equipment to us; and · Universal Compression Holdings would not be prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. As a result, competition from Universal Compression Holdings could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. While we anticipate commencing negotiations with Universal Compression Holdings to enter into substitute arrangements that would take effect upon the termination of these provisions of the Omnibus Agreement, those negotiations have not commenced. Further, we cannot assure our unitholders that any such negotiations will result in non-competition and equipment-sharing arrangements with Universal Compression Holdings on substantially the same terms and conditions as are 17 provided in the Omnibus Agreement or on other favorable terms. Any inability to reach a suitable substitute arrangement with Universal Compression Holdings as to these matters may adversely impact our results of operations. Additionally, in light of our relationship with and dependence upon Universal Compression Holdings to, among other things, provide us all operational staff, corporate staff and support services necessary to run our business, we face some of the same challenges and uncertainties faced by Universal Compression Holdings. For example, Universal Compression Holdings has no assurance that the conditions necessary to consummate the merger will be satisfied or that there will not be any adverse consequences to its business resulting from conditions that could be imposed in connection with obtaining these approvals, including divestitures or operating restrictions. This uncertainty could harm its relationships with its current customers, employees and suppliers. Furthermore, even if the merger is completed, the combined company will face a number of other important challenges and uncertainties, including the risks that the anticipated benefits may not be realized, integration of the two companies may be more difficult than anticipated and required refinancings may not be made on favorable terms. These risks could adversely affect our business to the extent we will depend on the combined company in the same ways we currently depend on Universal Compression Holdings. Failure to complete the merger of Universal Compression Holdings and Hanover could negatively impact our common unit price and our future business and financial results because of, among other things, the disruption that would occur as a result of uncertainties relating to a failure to complete the merger. If the merger of Universal Compression Holdings and Hanover is not completed, we would not realize any of the expected benefits of having completed the merger. Also, the price of our common units may decline to the extent that the current market price of our common units reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed and that the related benefits to us will be realized, or as a result of the market’s perceptions that the merger was not consummated due to an adverse change in the business of Universal Compression Holdings or our business. In addition, our business may be harmed, and the price of our common units may decline as a result, to the extent that customers, suppliers and others believe that we cannot compete in the marketplace as effectively without the merger or otherwise remain uncertain about our future prospects in the absence of the merger. Similarly, current and prospective employees of Universal Compression Holdings may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the resulting company and choose to pursue other opportunities that could adversely affect us if the merger is not completed. During the pendency of the merger agreement, Universal Compression Holdings may not be able to attract and retain key management, marketing and technical personnel due to this uncertainty, which could harm our businesses and results. The realization of any of these risks may materially adversely affect our business, financial results, financial condition and common unit price. We face significant competition that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance. The domestic compression business is highly competitive and there are low barriers to entry. In addition, some of our competitors are large national and multinational companies that provide contract compression, aftermarket services and support and fabrication services to third parties, and some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive services or substantially decrease the price at which they offer their services, we may not be able to compete effectively. Some of these competitors may expand or construct newer or more powerful compression systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers that are significant producers of natural gas may purchase their own compression systems in lieu of using our contract compression services. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 18 We may not be able to grow our cash flows if we do not expand our business. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow the per unit distribution on our units by expanding our business. Our future growth will depend upon a number of factors, some of which we cannot control. These factors include our ability to: · acquire additional domestic contract compression services business from Universal Compression Holdings; · consummate accretive acquisitions; · enter into contracts for new service with our existing customers or new customers; and · obtain required financing for our existing and new operations. A deficiency in any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve growth in the level of our cash flows or realize benefits from acquisitions. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and our ability to increase distributions to our unitholders will be limited. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make accretive acquisitions. If we are unable to make these accretive acquisitions either because we are: (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or (3) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: · an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; · the assumption of unknown liabilities; · limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; · mistaken assumptions about the cash generated by the business acquired or the overall costs of equity or debt; · the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; · unforeseen operating difficulties; and · customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our future funds and other resources. In addition, competition from other buyers could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay. Universal Compression Holdings’ implementation of its new enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system may result in problems that could negatively impact our business. Universal Compression Holdings contracted with a third party vendor to assist it with the design and implementation of a new ERP system that supports substantially all of our operating and financial functions, including fleet management, billing, customer management, vendor management, accounting and financial reporting. Universal Compression Holdings initiated the implementation of this ERP system for its domestic contract compression business in February 2006 and plans to complete its implementation in 2007 for Universal Compression Holdings’ North America operations. Universal Compression Holdings’ management team and employees have limited experience to date entering information into the system, accessing 19 and interpreting information from the system and managing our business utilizing the system. A significant implementation problem, if encountered, could negatively impact our business by disrupting our operations. Additionally, a significant problem with the implementation or ongoing management and operation of the new ERP system could have an adverse effect on our ability to generate and interpret accurate management and financial reports and other information on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our ability to manage our business. Universal Compression Holdings continues to own and operate a substantial domestic contract compression business, competition from which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Universal Compression Holdings and its other affiliates are prohibited from competing directly or indirectly with us with respect to the customers contributed to us in connection with the closing of our initial public offering and any new contract compression customer that approach either Universal Compression Holdings or ourselves until the earliest to occur of the third anniversary of the closing of our initial public offering, a change of control of Universal Compression Holdings or our general partner or the removal or withdrawal of our general partner. Otherwise, Universal Compression Holdings is not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Universal Compression Holdings will continue to own and operate a domestic contract compression business approximately five times as large as ours (by available horsepower) and continues to engage in international contract compression, fabrication and aftermarket service activities. Universal Compression Holdings is a large, established participant in the contract compression business, and has significantly greater resources, including idle compression equipment, fabrication operations, vendor relationships and experience, than we have, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with it with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. Universal Compression Holdings and its affiliates may acquire, fabricate or dispose of additional natural gas compression or other assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, competition from Universal Compression Holdings could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. We may be unable to grow through acquisitions of the remainder of Universal Compression Holdings’ domestic contract compression business, which could limit our ability to increase our cash available for distribution. Universal Compression Holdings is under no obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase the remainder of its domestic contract compression business, and its board of directors owes fiduciary duties to the stockholders of Universal Compression Holdings, and not our unitholders, in making any decision to offer us this opportunity. Likewise, we are not required to purchase any additional portions of such business. The consummation of any such purchases will depend upon, among other things, Universal Compression Holdings’ ability to continue to convert its existing compression agreements to the new form of agreement, our reaching an agreement with Universal Compression Holdings regarding the terms of such purchase (which will require the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner) and our ability to finance such a purchase on acceptable terms. Additionally, Universal Compression Holdings may be limited in its ability to consummate a sale of any additional portions of such business to us by the terms of its existing or future credit facilities or indentures. The restrictive covenants of its current debt instruments include restrictions or prohibitions upon Universal Compression Holdings’ ability to, among other things, sell its assets or make certain “restricted payments”. Additionally, our credit facility includes covenants that may limit our ability to make acquisitions. If a sale of any additional portion of Universal Compression Holdings’ domestic contract compression business would be restricted or prohibited by such covenants, we or Universal Compression Holdings may be required to seek waivers of such provisions or refinance those debt instruments in order to consummate a sale, neither of which may be accomplished timely, if at all. If we are unable to grow through additional acquisitions of the remainder of Universal Compression Holdings’ domestic contract compression business, our ability to increase our cash available for distribution may be limited. We may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of our contracts with our customers, which are generally cancellable on short notice, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. We generally provide compression services to our customers under “evergreen” contracts that are cancellable on 30 days’ notice. We may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of these contracts on favorable terms, if at all, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. 20 Our ability to manage and grow our business effectively may be adversely affected if Universal Compression Holdings loses management or operational personnel. We depend on the continuing efforts of the executive officers of our general partner, all of whom are employees of Universal Compression Holdings. The departure of any of the executive officers of our general partner could have a significant negative effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. We do not maintain key man life insurance coverage with respect to our executive officers or any other management personnel. We are not aware of the upcoming retirement of any of the executive officers of our general partner, other than upon completion of the proposed merger between Universal Compression Holdings and Hanover. Additionally, we do not have any of our own employees, but rather rely on Universal Compression Holdings’ employees to operate our business. We believe that Universal Compression Holdings’ ability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel will continue to be more challenging and important as we grow and if energy industry market conditions continue to be positive. When general industry conditions are good, the supply of experienced operational, fabrication and field personnel, in particular, decreases as other energy and manufacturing companies’ needs for the same personnel increases. Our ability to grow and perhaps even to continue our current level of service to our current customers will be adversely impacted if Universal Compression Holdings is unable to successfully hire, train and retain these important personnel. If we are unable to purchase compression equipment from Universal Compression Holdings or others, we may not be able to retain existing customers or compete for new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Because domestic natural gas exploration, drilling and production are at or near all-time highs, there is substantial competition for the purchase of compression equipment and there is very little idle equipment available for purchase. We have a limited supply of idle units. Universal Compression Holdings is under no obligation to offer or sell us newly fabricated or idle compression equipment and may choose not to do so timely or at all. Further, Universal Compression Holdings will likely continue to face substantial demand for the compression equipment it owns or fabricates from its domestic and international contract compression services businesses as well as from third-party customers. Similarly, we may not be able to purchase newly fabricated or idle compression equipment from third-party producers or marketers of such equipment or from our competitors. If we are unable to purchase compression equipment on a timely basis to meet the demands of our customers, our existing customers may terminate their contractual relationships with us or we may not be able to compete for business from new customers, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our operating costs per horsepower may be subject to more variability than those of our predecessor. This variability may have an adverse impact on our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Because we own a substantially smaller fleet of compressors than our predecessor, our operating costs per horsepower may be subject to more variability than those of our predecessor. This additional variability in our operating costs per horsepower may result from, among other things, the fact that repair costs associated with our compressors that experience unanticipated downtime will be allocated over our smaller fleet of compressors. The cap on our obligation to reimburse Universal Compression Holdings for any cost of sales that it incurs in the operation of our business contained in the Omnibus Agreement will terminate on December 31, 2008. Additionally, Universal Compression Holdings could condition any future sales of portions of its compression business to us on our agreement (which would require the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner) to an increase or early termination of the cap. Any increase in our operating costs at a time when the cap is increased or no longer in effect could have an adverse impact on our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our reliance on Universal Compression Holdings as an operator of our assets and our limited ability to control certain costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement entered into between us and Universal Compression Holdings, Universal Compression Holdings provides us with all administrative and operational services, including without limitation all operations, marketing, maintenance and repair, periodic overhauls of compression equipment, inventory management, legal, accounting, treasury, insurance administration and claims processing, risk management, health, safety and environmental, information technology, human resources, credit, payroll, internal audit, taxes and engineering services necessary to run our business. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depends significantly upon Universal 21 Compression Holdings’ satisfactory operation of our assets and performance of these services. Our reliance on Universal Compression Holdings as an operator of our assets and our limited ability to control certain costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our inability to fund purchases of additional compression equipment could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. We will not be able to grow our asset and customer base unless we have access to sufficient capital to purchase additional compression equipment. We cannot assure unitholders that cash flow from our operations and availability under our revolving credit facility will provide us with sufficient cash to fund our capital expenditure requirements. Failure to generate sufficient cash flow, together with the absence of alternative sources of capital, could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We indirectly depend on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to product shortages and price increases, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Much of our compression equipment was fabricated by Universal Compression Holdings. Some of the components used in those compressors are obtained by Universal Compression Holdings from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Universal Compression Holdings’ reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases, inferior component quality and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. Universal Compression Holdings does not have long-term contracts with these sources, and its partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, since any increase in component prices for compression equipment fabricated by Universal Compression Holdings for us will be passed on to us, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We are subject to substantial environmental regulation, and changes in these regulations could increase our costs or liabilities. We are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulatory standards, including laws and regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment, emission controls and other environmental protection and occupational health and safety concerns. Environmental laws and regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, rendering us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring land owners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, failure to comply with these environmental laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, and the issuance of injunctions delaying or prohibiting operations. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties used by us to provide contract compression services or inactive compression storage or on or under other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, remediation and monitoring requirements under foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. The modification or interpretation of existing environmental laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing environmental laws or regulations, or the adoption of new environmental laws or regulations may also negatively impact oil and natural gas exploration and production, gathering and pipeline companies, which in turn could have a negative impact on us. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities. Natural gas service operations are subject to inherent risks such as equipment defects, malfunction and failures, and natural disasters that can result in uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damages. Universal Compression Holdings insures our property and operations against many of these risks; however, our insurance may be 22 inadequate to cover our liabilities. We have elected to fully self-insure our offshore assets. Further, insurance covering the risks we face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. A substantial portion of our cash flow must be used to service our debt obligations, and future interest rate increases could reduce the amount of our cash available for distribution. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding borrowings of $125 million under our five year, $225 million revolving credit facility. Any borrowings that we may make under our revolving credit facility, excluding our initial $125 million of borrowings under the facility, which are subject to a fixed rate swap, will bear interest at floating rates. Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing our funds available for capital investment, operations or distributions to our unitholders. Additionally, if domestic interest rates continue to increase, the interest rates on any of our future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. Covenants in our credit facility may adversely affect our ability to operate our business and to make distributions to our unitholders. Our credit facility includes covenants limiting our ability to make distributions, incur indebtedness, grant liens, merge, make loans, acquisitions, investments or dispositions and engage in transactions with affiliates. Furthermore, our credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and tests. Additionally, our obligations under the revolving credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets and all assets of our subsidiaries. These covenants may restrict our ability to expand or to pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with certain provisions of the credit facility may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in business conditions or results of operations, adverse regulatory developments or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of those covenants could result in a default under our debt, which could cause those obligations to become due and payable. If any of our indebtedness were to be accelerated, we may not be able to repay or refinance it. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, incur debt or for other purposes. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, incur debt or for other purposes. 23 Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Universal Compression Holdings controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Universal Compression Holdings has conflicts of interest, which may permit it to favor its own interests to our unitholders’ detriment. Universal Compression Holdings owns and controls our general partner. Some of our general partner’s directors are directors of Universal Compression Holdings and all of our executive officers are officers of Universal Compression Holdings. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between Universal Compression Holdings and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Universal Compression Holdings to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Universal Compression Holdings’ directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the owners of Universal Compression Holdings, which may be contrary to our interests; · our general partner controls the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and Universal Compression Holdings, on the other hand, including provisions governing administrative services, acquisitions and transfers of compression equipment and non-competition provisions; · any additional contributions of contract compression customers or assets made to us by Universal Compression Holdings; · our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Universal Compression Holdings and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest; · other than with respect to the customers contributed to us in connection with the closing of our initial public offering, Universal Compression Holdings and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us. Universal Compression Holdings will continue to engage in domestic and international contract compression services as well as third-party sales coupled with aftermarket service contracts; · Universal Compression Holdings will compete with us with respect to any future acquisition opportunities; · Universal Compression Holdings’ domestic and international contract compression services businesses and its third-party equipment customers will compete with us for newly fabricated and idle compression equipment and Universal Compression Holdings is under no obligation to offer equipment to us for purchase or use; · all of the officers of Universal Compression Holdings who provide services to us also will devote significant time to the business of Universal Compression Holdings, and will be compensated by Universal Compression Holdings for the services rendered to it; · our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; · our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; 24 · our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; · our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us and Universal Compression Holdings determines the allocation of shared overhead expenses; · our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; · our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; · our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; and · our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which are determined by our general partner, are substantial and reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement we entered into with Universal Compression Holdings, our general partner, and others, Universal Compression Holdings receives reimbursement for the payment of operating expenses related to our operations and for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Payments for these services are substantial and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units and subordinated units and restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: · permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement; · provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; 25 · generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; · provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and · provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its general partner’s directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders do not elect our general partner or its general partner’s board of directors, and have no right to elect our general partner or its general partner’s board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of UCO GP, LLC are chosen by its sole member, a subsidiary of Universal Compression Holdings. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent. The unitholders are unable initially to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner. As of December 31, 2006, our general partner and its affiliates owned 50% of our aggregate outstanding common and subordinated units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of the general partner because of the unitholder’s dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units to common units. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner, which is indirectly wholly-owned by Universal Compression Holdings, may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger, such as the proposed merger between Universal Compression Holdings and Hanover, or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Universal Compression Holdings, the owner of our general partner, from transferring 26 all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner’s general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute their existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; · because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; · the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and · the market price of the common units may decline. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders, other than our general partner and its affiliates, including Universal Compression Holdings, owning 20% or more of our common units. Accordingly, their voting rights may be limited. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, including Universal Compression Holdings, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions. Affiliates of our general partner may sell common or subordinated units in the public or private markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. At December 31, 2006, Universal Compression Holdings and its affiliates held 6,325,000 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period and some or all may convert earlier. The sale of these subordinated units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. At December 31, 2006, our general partner and its affiliates owned approximately 50% of our aggregate outstanding common and subordinated units, including all of our subordinated units. Unitholder liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if they were a general partner if: 27 · a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or · a unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Our common units have a limited trading history and a limited trading volume compared to other units representing limited partner interests. Our common units are traded publicly on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “UCLP.” However, our common units have a limited trading history and daily trading volumes for our common units are, and may continue to be, relatively small compared to many other units representing limited partner interests quoted on the NASDAQ. The price of our common units may, therefore, be volatile. The market price of our common units may also be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · our quarterly distributions; · our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; · changes in commodity prices or refining margins; · loss of a large customer; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; · general economic conditions; · the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts; · future sales of our common units; and · the other factors described in these “Risk Factors.” 28 Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service treats us as a corporation or we become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, which we refer to as the IRS, on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Instead, we have relied on opinions of counsel as to all material tax issues affecting us and our unitholders. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, under recently enacted legislation, we will be subject to a new entity level tax payable in 2008 on the portion of our total revenue (as that term is defined in the legislation) that is generated in Texas beginning in our tax year ending December 31, 2007. Specifically, the Texas margin tax will be imposed at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our total revenue that is apportioned to Texas. Imposition of such a tax on us by Texas, or any other state, will reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders. The partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us at the option of our general partner without the consent of our unitholders. An IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely affect the market for our common units, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not received a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with all of our counsel’s conclusions or positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if unitholders receive no cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of common units could be more or less than expected. If a unitholder sells their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to a unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income they were allocated for a common unit, which decreased their tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that common unit, even if the price is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, if a unitholder sells their units, the unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash 29 they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, is unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons are reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons are required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If a potential investor in common units is a tax-exempt entity or a foreign person, it should consult its tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we take depreciation positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. Unitholders may be subject to foreign, state and local taxes and return filing requirements. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if unitholders do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own assets and do business in the States of Alabama, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia and Wyoming. Each of these states, other than Texas and Wyoming, currently imposes a personal income tax. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or do business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is the unitholders’ responsibility to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the foreign, state or local tax consequences of an investment in the common units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests within a twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. Closing of the proposed merger between Universal Compression Holdings and Hanover will not, as contemplated, result in the sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interest in our capital and profits. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 