Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our company. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business Our substantial indebtedness could have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position. In connection with our spin-off from Verizon, we issued $9,115 million of debt, which, at current interest rates, will result in annual interest expense of approximately $700 million. Under the terms of our revolving credit facility, we have approximately $250 million available for additional borrowing. Our overall leverage and the terms of our financing arrangements could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions; • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • limit our ability to adapt to changing market conditions; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limit the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital and other corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the telecommunications industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that have less debt; • make it more difficult for us to pay cash dividends; and • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Changes in interest rates may affect our cash flow and results of operations. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 69% of our outstanding debt bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, our variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. The debt covenants under our credit agreements require us to employ risk management strategies to minimize our exposure to this risk. While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates, these agreements may not offer complete protection from interest rate risk. 17 Table of Contents Restrictions in our financing arrangements could limit our operating and strategic flexibility. Our financing arrangements contain restrictions, covenants and events of default that, among other things, require us to satisfy financial tests and maintain financial ratios, including a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. These restrictions, covenants and events of default limit our ability to, or do not permit us to, among other things: • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • refinance our existing indebtedness; • create liens; • redeem and/or prepay certain debt; • pay dividends on our stock, make other distributions or repurchase stock; • make investments; • engage in specified asset sales; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter new lines of business; • engage in consolidation, mergers and acquisitions; and • make capital expenditures. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these restrictions, covenants and events of default, including satisfaction of the required financial tests and maintenance of the required financial ratios. Failure to comply with any of the covenants would result in a default under those arrangements and under other arrangements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity for the debt under these agreements, foreclose upon our assets securing the debt and terminate any commitments to lend. Under these circumstances, we might have insufficient funds or other resources to satisfy our obligations, including our debt obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by any financing arrangements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We face widespread competition from other print directory publishers that may reduce our market share or materially adversely affect our financial performance. The U.S. directory advertising industry is highly competitive. There are a number of directory publishers. Major publishers include AT&T, R.H. Donnelley and Yellow Book (the U.S. business of Yell Group). Smaller independent publishers include Valley Yellow Pages, Ambassador Yellow Pages and White Directory Publishing, a division of Hearst Holdings, Inc. We compete with Yellow Book in the majority of our major markets and, to a lesser degree, with one or more of the other publishers in some markets. We publish directories in approximately 320 incumbent markets and more than 40 independent markets. Our two largest competitors are Yellow Book and AT&T. We estimate that, on average, there are three competing directories in each of our local markets. In addition, any of these directory publishers could elect to publish directories in the future in any of our markets in which they do not currently publish directories. Competition from other yellow pages publishers affects our ability to attract and retain advertisers and to increase advertising rates. We expect competition to affect future revenue growth. We also compete for advertising sales with other traditional media, including the Internet, newspapers, magazines, radio, outdoor, direct mail, telemarketing, billboards and television. Given the mature state of the directory advertising industry and our position in most of our markets, independent competitors are typically focused on aggressive pricing to gain market share. We may not be able to compete effectively with these companies for advertising sales or acquisitions in the future. 18 Table of Contents If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and user preferences, our competitive position could be materially adversely affected. Advances in technology have brought, and will likely continue to bring, new participants, new products and new channels to the industry, including increasing use of Internet delivery and Internet search engines/services. For instance, national search companies, including Google and Yahoo!, are focusing on local commercial search initiatives. The yellow pages directory advertising business is subject to changes arising from developments in technology, including information distribution methods and users’ preferences. The Internet has emerged as an attractive medium for advertisers and its use, including as a means to transact commerce through wireless devices, has resulted in new technologies and services that compete with our traditional products and services. As a result of these factors, our growth and future financial performance may depend on our ability to develop and market new products and services and create new distribution channels, while enhancing existing products, services and distribution channels, to incorporate the latest technological advances and accommodate changing user preferences, including the use of the Internet. We may not be able to adapt our business successfully to these changes in technology. We and other directory publishers are increasingly advertising, marketing and selling online products to supplement our traditional print products. Through our Internet yellow pages directory service, Superpages.com, we compete with the Internet yellow pages directories of major and independent directory publishers, including Yellowpages.com, as well as other Internet sites that provide classified directory information, including Switchboard.com and Citysearch.com, and with search engines and portals, some of which have entered into affiliate agreements with us or with other major directory publishers. We may not be able to compete effectively with these other companies, some of which have greater resources than we do, for advertising in the future. Our Internet strategy may be adversely affected if major search engines build local sales forces or otherwise begin to more effectively reach small local businesses. Declining usage of print yellow pages directories may adversely affect our business. Overall references to print yellow pages directories in the United States have declined from 15.1 billion in 2002 to 14.5 billion in 2005, which is the most recently available data. We believe the decline is primarily attributable to increased usage of Internet yellow pages directory products, particularly in business-to-business and retail categories, as well as the proliferation of very large retail stores for which consumers and businesses may not reference the yellow pages. We believe that over the next several years, references to print yellow pages directories may continue to decline as consumers may increasingly turn to digital and interactive media delivery devices for local commercial search information. Usage of our print directories may continue to decline at the existing rate or more severely. Any decline in usage of our print directories could: • impair our ability to maintain or increase advertising prices; • cause businesses to reduce or discontinue purchases of advertising space in our yellow pages directories; and • discourage other businesses from purchasing advertising space in our yellow pages directories. Any of the factors that may contribute to a decline in usage of our print directories, or a combination of them, could impair our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our credit ratings are below investment grade, which could completely or adversely restrict our access to capital. As a result of the spin-off, we no longer benefit from Verizon’s investment grade status and our credit ratings are substantially lower than the current ratings of Verizon. Differences in credit ratings affect the interest 19 Table of Contents rates at which we may sell debt securities or borrow funds, as well as the amounts of indebtedness and types of financing structures that may be available to us. We may not be able to raise the capital we require on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are not able to obtain sufficient financing, we may be unable to maintain or grow our business, including through acquisitions. Further issuances of equity securities are subject to limitations imposed on us in our tax sharing agreement with Verizon. Idearc Inc. is a holding company and relies on dividends, interest and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from its subsidiaries to meet debt service and other obligations. Idearc Inc. is a holding company and conducts all of its operations through its subsidiaries. As a result, Idearc Inc. relies on dividends, loans and other payments or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet debt service obligations and enable it to pay interest and dividends. The ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to it depends substantially on their respective operating results and is subject to restrictions under, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends), agreements of those subsidiaries, the terms of our financing arrangements and the terms of any future financing arrangements of our subsidiaries. Our dependence on third-party providers of printing and distribution services could materially affect us. We depend on third parties to print and distribute our directories. We must rely on the systems of our third-party service providers, their ability to perform key operations on our behalf in a timely manner and in accordance with agreed levels of service and their ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to perform our work. A failure in the systems of one of our third-party service providers, or their inability to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts or to retain sufficient qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In February 2006, we entered into a multi-year printing agreement pursuant to which a third-party prints all of our directories. Because of the large print volume and specialized binding of directories, there are a limited number of companies capable of servicing our printing needs. Accordingly, the inability or unwillingness of our third-party vendor to perform its obligations under the printing agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are also a party to multi-year contracts with third parties for the distribution of our directories. There are a limited number of companies that could service our distribution needs. Accordingly, the inability or unwillingness of our distributors to provide distribution services to us on acceptable terms or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to maintain our current relationships with the third parties who provide our printing and distribution services to us under long-term contracts or any other third-party service providers. If we were to lose the services of any of our key third-party service providers, we would be required either to hire sufficient staff to perform the provider’s services in-house or to find an alternative service provider. In some cases, including the printing of our directories, it would be impracticable for us to perform the function internally. In the event we were required to perform any of the services that we currently outsource, it is unlikely that we would be able to perform them on a cost-effective basis. Increased competition in local telephone markets could reduce the benefits of using the Verizon brand name. Federal Communications Commission rules regarding local number portability, advances in communications technology (including wireless devices and voice over Internet protocol) and demographic factors (including potential shifts in younger generations from wireline telephone communications towards wireless or other communications technologies) may erode the market position of telephone service providers, including Verizon. If Verizon loses market share in any particular local service area, the value of our license to 20 Table of Contents use the Verizon brand name in particular local telephone markets may be less than we presently anticipate, and we may not realize fully the existing benefits of our commercial arrangements with Verizon. Fluctuations in the price or availability of paper could materially affect our costs and, as a result, our profitability. The principal raw material we use is paper. All of the paper we use is supplied by several different companies. Pursuant to our agreements with these companies, they are obligated to provide up to 100% of the annual forecasted paper requirements in their contracts. The price of paper under the agreements is set each year based on total tonnage by supplier, paper basis weights, production capacity, and market price and demand. The terms of these contracts are staggered so that as individual contracts expire, we maintain the ability to obtain all paper requirements in any given year. We do not engage in hedging activities to limit our exposure to increases in paper prices. In the future, the price of paper may fluctuate significantly due to changes in supply and demand. If we cannot secure access to paper in the necessary amounts or at reasonable prices, or if paper costs increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additional regulation regarding information technology could lead to increased costs. As the Internet yellow pages directories industry develops, specific laws relating to the provision of Internet services and the use of Internet and Internet-related applications may become relevant. Regulation of the Internet and Internet-related services is itself still developing both formally by, for instance, statutory regulation, and also less formally by, for instance, industry self regulation. If our regulatory environment becomes more restrictive, including by increased Internet regulation, our profitability could decrease. Our advertising sales to national accounts is dependent upon third parties that we do not control. Approximately 15% of our directory advertising revenues for the period from 2004 to 2006 were derived from the sale of advertising to national or large regional chains, including rental car companies, insurance companies and pizza delivery businesses, each of which generally purchases advertising in numerous directories. In order to sell advertising to these accounts, we contract with certified marketing representatives, or CMRs, who are independent third parties that act as agents for national companies and design their advertisements, arrange for the placement of those advertisements in directories and provide billing services. We accept orders from approximately 160 CMRs. As a result, our relationships with these national advertisers depend significantly on the performance of these third-party CMRs. Some yellow pages companies act as their own CMRs. One of our competitors, AT&T, operates as a CMR under the name Berry Network, which is the third largest CMR based on gross billings. If some or all of the CMRs with whom we have existing relationships were unable or unwilling to transact business with us on acceptable terms or at all, this inability or unwillingness could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, any decline in the performance of the CMRs with whom we contract could harm our ability to generate revenues from our national accounts and could materially adversely affect our business. We have agreements with several major search engines and portals, the discontinuance of which may adversely affect our business. We have expanded our Internet product line by establishing relationships with several other Internet yellow pages directory providers, portals, search engines and individual web sites, which make our content easier for search engines to access and provide a response to general searches on the Internet. Under those agreements, we place our advertising customers’ advertisements on major search engines, which gives us access to a higher volume of traffic than we could generate on our own without relinquishing the customer relationship. The search engines benefit from our local sales force and full-service capabilities for attracting and serving advertisers that might not otherwise transact business with search engines. The termination of any of these agreements could adversely affect our business. 21 Table of Contents Our reliance on small- and medium-sized businesses exposes us to increased credit risks. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 78% of our print directory advertising revenues were derived from selling advertising to local businesses, which are generally small and medium-sized businesses. In the ordinary course of our directory operations, we extend credit to these customers for advertising purchases. Full collection of delinquent accounts can take many months or may never occur. For 2006, bad debt expense for all of our accounts amounted to approximately $140 million, or 4.3% of our total operating revenue. Small and medium-sized businesses tend to have fewer financial resources and higher rates of failure than large businesses, and may be more vulnerable to competition from large retail businesses. These factors may increase our credit risk exposures to our small- and medium-sized customers. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain highly qualified individuals in the directories publishing business could materially adversely affect our business. We depend on the continued services of key personnel, including our experienced senior management team, as well as our regional sales management personnel. Our ability to achieve our operating goals depends to a significant extent on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified individuals in the directories publishing business. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Turnover among sales representatives could materially adversely affect our business. A loss of a significant number of experienced sales representatives would likely result in fewer sales of advertising in our directories and could materially adversely affect our business. We expend significant resources and management time on identifying and training our sales representatives. Our ability to attract and retain qualified sales personnel depends on numerous factors outside of our control, including conditions in the local employment markets in which we operate. A substantial decrease in the number of sales representatives could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, as well as our ability to service our debt. We could be affected by certain changes in labor matters. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 30% of our employees were covered by union contracts that will expire between June 2007 and October 2009. In addition, the employees of some of our key suppliers are represented by unions. Work stoppages or slow-downs involving our union-represented employees, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations and increase operating costs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, a greater percentage of our work force could become represented by unions. If one union decides to strike, and other unions are able to honor its picket line, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. A prolonged economic downturn could adversely materially affect our business. We derive substantially all of our net revenues from the sale of advertising. A prolonged national or regional economic recession or certain events that could produce major changes in shopping patterns, including a terrorist attack, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, any residual economic effects of, and uncertainties regarding the general possibility, express threat or future occurrence of terrorist attacks or other related disruptive events or the United States’ continuing or expanded involvement in war, especially with respect to the major markets in which we operate that depend heavily on travel, tourism or the military, could materially adversely affect our business. 22 Table of Contents The loss of important intellectual property rights could adversely affect our prospects and results of operations. Some trademarks, including the Verizon brand name and other intellectual property rights, are key to our business. We rely upon a combination of copyright and trademark laws as well as contractual arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We may be required from time to time to bring lawsuits against third parties to protect our intellectual property rights. Similarly, from time to time, we may be party to proceedings by third parties challenging our rights. Lawsuits or other actions brought by us may not be successful, or we may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. As the Internet grows, it may prove more onerous to protect our trade names, including Superpages.com, from domain name infringement or to prevent others from using Internet domain names that associate their businesses with ours. In the past, we have received claims of material infringement of trademark rights significant to our business. Related lawsuits, regardless of their outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, the loss of important intellectual property rights, including trademarks, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our operating results, including our cash available for operations. Our operations, as well as the properties that we own and lease for our business, are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations or permit requirements, or the imposition of liability related to waste disposal or other matters arising under these laws, could result in civil or criminal fines, penalties or enforcement actions, third-party claims for property damage and personal injury or requirements to clean up property or other remedial actions. Some of these laws provide for “strict liability,” which can render a party liable for environmental or natural resource damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. To the extent that the costs associated with meeting any of these requirements are substantial and not adequately provided for, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our exposure to legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. Various lawsuits and other claims typical for a business of our size are pending against us. In addition, from time to time, we receive communications from government or regulatory agencies concerning investigations or allegations of noncompliance with laws or regulations in jurisdictions in which we operate. We do not expect that the ultimate resolution of pending regulatory and legal matters in future periods will have a material effect on our financial condition. Any potential judgments, fines or penalties relating to these matters, however, may have a material effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are recognized. We are also exposed to defamation, breach of privacy claims and other litigation matters relating to our directories business, as well as methods of collection, processing and use of personal data. The subjects of our data and users of data collected and processed by us could also have claims against us if our data were found to be inaccurate, or if personal data stored by us were improperly accessed and disseminated by unauthorized persons. We may be party to litigation involving defamation, privacy claims and other matters that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or otherwise distract our management. 23 Table of Contents Our reliance on technology could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most of our business activities rely to a significant degree on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems and those of third parties. Any failure of current or, in the future, new systems could impair our collection, processing or storage of data and the day-to-day management of our business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our computer and communications systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources. A natural disaster or other unanticipated problems that lead to the corruption or loss of data at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Spin-Off Our historical financial information may not be indicative of our future results. Our historical financial information may not reflect what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had we been an independent company during all of the periods presented or be indicative of what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be in the future. This is primarily a result of the following three factors: • Our historical financial information reflects allocations for services historically provided by Verizon. We expect these allocations to be different from the costs we will incur for these services in the future as a smaller independent company, including with respect to services that Verizon provides to us under our transition services agreement with Verizon and other commercial service agreements. In some instances, our costs for these services may be higher than the Verizon expenses allocated to us historically. • Our historical financial information does not reflect the $9,115 million in debt and related interest expense that we incurred in our separation from Verizon. • Our historical financial information does not reflect the additional costs associated with being an independent company, including changes in our cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations of our business and from reduced economies of scale. We have a limited history operating as an independent company and we may incur increased costs as a result of the spin-off that may cause our profitability to decline. Historically, our business was principally operated as a business unit of Verizon. As such, Verizon performed many corporate functions for our operations, including managing financial and human resources systems, internal auditing, investor relations, treasury services, select accounting functions, finance and tax administration, benefits administration, legal, regulatory, and corporate branding functions. Prior to our separation from Verizon, we paid Verizon for the performance of these services. On an interim basis after the spin-off, Verizon will continue to support us with respect to some of these functions. We are in the process of replicating certain facilities, systems, infrastructure and personnel to which we no longer have access since our spin-off from Verizon. We are incurring capital and other costs associated with developing and implementing our own support functions in these areas. These costs may exceed our current payments to Verizon. In addition, there may be an adverse operational impact on our business as a result of the significant time our management and other employees and internal resources must dedicate to building these capabilities during the first few years following the spin-off that otherwise would be available for other business initiatives and opportunities. When we begin to operate these functions independently, if we have not developed adequate systems and business functions, or obtained them from other providers, we may not be able to operate our company effectively and our profitability may decline. 24 Table of Contents In addition, we have historically benefited from Verizon’s size and purchasing power in procuring goods and services. As an independent company, we may be unable to obtain goods and services at prices and on terms as favorable as those obtained before the spin-off, which could decrease our overall profitability. Limitations on our use of the Verizon brand could adversely affect our business and profitability. Prior to the spin-off, we marketed our products and services using the Verizon brand name and logo. We believe the association with Verizon provided us with preferred status among our customers and employees due to Verizon’s globally recognized brands and perceived high-quality products and services. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a 30-year branding agreement with Verizon that grants us a limited right to, among other things, use certain Verizon service- and trade-marks in connection with publishing certain print directories and identify ourselves as Verizon’s official print directory publisher. Our right to use the Verizon brand is subject to our compliance with the terms and conditions of the branding agreement and the publishing agreement. While we continue to use the Verizon brand on our print directories in our incumbent markets and our current independent markets, we are not permitted to use Verizon as part of our name and may not advertise ourselves as a Verizon company. We may be required to indemnify Verizon if the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment as a result of our actions after the spin-off In connection with the spin-off, Verizon received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that the spin-off qualifies as tax-free to Verizon, Idearc and Verizon stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 and related provisions of the Code. Events subsequent to the spin-off could cause the spin-off to fail to continue to qualify for tax-free treatment. Under the terms of our tax sharing agreement with Verizon, we agreed to indemnify Verizon and its affiliates against all tax-related liabilities caused by the failure of the spin-off to qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent the liabilities arise as a result of any action taken by us or any of our affiliates following the spin-off or otherwise result from any breach by us or any of our affiliates of any of the representations, covenants or obligations under the tax sharing agreement or any other agreement we entered into in connection with the spin-off. The terms of our tax sharing agreement with Verizon may reduce our strategic and operating flexibility. The covenants in, and our indemnity obligations under, the tax sharing agreement with Verizon may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. The covenants in, and our indemnity obligations under, the tax sharing agreement also limit our ability to modify the terms of, prepay, or otherwise acquire any of the tranche B term loans or the senior unsecured notes. Further, these covenants and indemnity obligations might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. The loss of any of our key agreements with Verizon could have a material adverse effect on our business. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into several agreements with Verizon, including a publishing agreement, a branding agreement and a non-competition agreement. Under the publishing agreement, Verizon named us the exclusive official publisher of Verizon print directories in markets in which Verizon currently is the incumbent local exchange carrier, which we refer to as our incumbent markets. We believe that acting as the exclusive official publisher of directories for Verizon provides us with a competitive advantage in those markets. Under the branding agreement, Verizon granted us a limited right to, among other things, use certain Verizon service- and trade-marks in connection with publishing certain print directories and identify ourselves as its official print directory publisher. Under the non-competition agreement, Verizon generally agreed not to publish tangible or digital (excluding Internet) media directory products consisting principally of wireline listings and classified advertisements of subscribers in our incumbent markets and, subject to certain termination rights, in certain independent markets for five years after the spin-off. Subject to various exceptions, Verizon also agreed not to publish, for one year following the spin-off, an Internet yellow pages substantially similar to Superpages.com. 25 Table of Contents Each of these agreements with Verizon has an initial term of 30 years from the date of the spin-off, subject to certain early termination rights. These agreements may be terminated by Verizon prior to their stated term under specified circumstances, some of which are beyond our reasonable control or that could require extraordinary efforts or the incurrence of material excess costs on our part in order to avoid breach of the applicable agreement. Each of these agreements has a cross-default provision, so that a termination under any of the agreements may, at Verizon’s option, lead to a partial or complete termination of rights under any of the other agreements. It is possible that these agreements will not remain in place for their full stated term or that we may be unable to avoid all potential breaches of or defaults under these agreements. Our inability to enforce the non-competition agreement with Verizon may impair the value of our business. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a non-competition agreement with Verizon pursuant to which Verizon generally agreed, among other things, not to publish tangible or digital media directory products consisting principally of wireline listings and classified advertisements of subscribers in our incumbent markets directed primarily at customers in these markets. However, under applicable law, a covenant not to compete is only enforceable: • to the extent it is necessary to protect a legitimate business interest of the party seeking enforcement; • if it does not unreasonably restrain the party against whom enforcement is sought; and • if it is not contrary to the public interest. Enforceability of a non-competition covenant is determined by a court based on all of the facts and circumstances of the specific case at the time enforcement is sought. For this reason, it is not possible to predict whether, or to what extent, a court would enforce Verizon’s covenants not to compete against us during the term of the non-competition agreement. If a court were to determine that the non-competition agreement is unenforceable, Verizon could compete directly against us in the previously restricted markets. Our inability to enforce the non-competition agreement with Verizon could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. If Verizon prematurely halts its obligations under the transition services agreement or if we are unable to replicate the transition services internally, our business would be materially adversely affected. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a transition services agreement with Verizon pursuant to which Verizon agreed to provide specified services to us on an interim basis. Among the principal services provided by Verizon are information technology application and support services and data center services. In addition, under the terms of our billing and collection agreement with Verizon, Verizon continues to bill and collect, on our behalf, amounts owed by some of our accounts, which are also Verizon local telephone customers, for our directory services. Performance standards and estimated costs are specified in the transition services agreement and the billing and collection agreement. Verizon may not timely or successfully perform these functions. It is also possible that we may have to expend extraordinary efforts or material costs in excess of those estimated in these agreements. Further, any interruption in these services or these extraordinary efforts or costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, approximately half of our systems development activity underlying our Internet yellow pages directory products and services has been historically performed by Verizon. We may not be able to successfully migrate away from these systems within the interim period permitted under the transition services agreement. If we were not able to achieve this migration, our Internet yellow pages directory business could be materially adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Verizon’s regulatory obligation to publish white pages directories in its incumbent markets may change over time, which may result in an increase in our future operating costs. Pursuant to state public utilities commission requirements, Verizon must publish and distribute white pages directories of certain residences and businesses that order or receive local telephone service from Verizon. The legal and regulatory provisions also require Verizon, in specified cases, to include information relating to the provision of telephone service provided by Verizon and other carriers in the service area, as well as information relating to local and state governmental agencies. The costs of publishing, printing and distributing the directories are included in our operating expenses. Under the terms of our publishing agreement with Verizon, we are required to discharge Verizon’s regulatory obligation to publish white pages directories in its incumbent markets. If any additional legal requirements are imposed on Verizon with respect to this obligation, we would be obligated to comply with these requirements on behalf of Verizon, even if this were to increase our publishing costs. Pursuant to the publishing agreement, until November 2014, Verizon is generally obligated to reimburse us for 50% of any net increase in our costs of publishing white pages directories that satisfy its publishing obligations to the extent these increased costs exceed $2.5 million in a given year and are the direct result of changes in legal requirements. After November 2014, Verizon generally will not be obligated to reimburse us for any increase in our costs of publishing directories that satisfy its publishing obligations. Our results of operations relative to competing directory publishers that do not have those obligations could be adversely affected if we were not able to increase our revenues to cover any of these unreimbursed compliance costs. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may decline. The trading price for our common stock may decline for many reasons, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others: • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts; • investor perceptions; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; and • general economic and industry conditions. Our capital raising may adversely affect holders of our common stock through the issuance of more senior securities or through dilution. In addition to the financing arrangements we entered into in connection with the spin-off, we may need to incur additional debt or issue securities to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and product development requirements or to make acquisitions and other investments. Due to limitations with respect to issuances of equity securities in our tax sharing agreement with Verizon, we may seek to raise additional capital in the form of debt, which could increase our leverage and reduce our credit ratings. Further, any debt securities or preferred stock we issue will have liquidation rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Among other reasons, if we were to raise funds through the issuance of common stock, we might lower the per share amount of any dividends that we issue. 27 Table of Contents Our financing arrangements contain significant limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Our financing arrangements contain significant restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock based on our meeting certain performance measures and complying with other conditions. Our ability to comply with these performance measures may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of any of the covenants, ratios or tests contained in our financing arrangements could result in a default under the financing arrangements. Any events of default or breach of our financing arrangements could prohibit us from paying any dividends to our stockholders. There is no assurance that we will declare dividends or cash available to make dividend payments. Although we have a policy of paying dividends on our common stock, funds may not be available for this purpose in the future. The declaration and payment of dividends will be subject to the sole discretion of our board of directors, will not be cumulative and will depend upon our profitability, financial condition, capital needs, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors, and will be restricted by the terms of our financing arrangements. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the terms of our spin-off from Verizon and certain provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable or may impede the ability of our stockholders to change our management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, among other things: • limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • regulate how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders; • require unanimous written consent of stockholders to take any action without a meeting; and • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without stockholder approval. Under our tax sharing agreement with Verizon, we agreed to indemnify Verizon for the tax resulting from any acquisition or issuance of our equity securities after the spin-off that triggers the application of Section 355(e) of the Code. This indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable. In addition, several of our agreements with Verizon, including some commercial service agreements, require Verizon’s consent to any assignment by us of our rights and obligations under the agreements. The consent rights in these agreements might discourage, delay or prevent a transaction that you may consider favorable. Finally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 28 Table of Contents 