Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included and incorporated by reference in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our substantial number of consumer loans. Our consumer loans accounted for approximately $93.6 million, or 36.2% of our total loan portfolio as of September 30, 2006, of which $24.4 million consisted of automobile loans, $64.4 million consisted of personal loans secured by other collateral and $4.8 million consisted of unsecured personal loans. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties. As a result of our large portfolio of consumer loans, it may become necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses, which could hurt our profits. Consumer loans generally entail greater risk than do one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. In addition, $6.6 million of our automobile loans and $50.7 million of our other secured consumer loans were indirect loans originated by or through third parties, which present greater risk than our direct lending products. See "Lending Activities -- Consumer Lending" and "Asset Quality." If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience and evaluate economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in the loan portfolio and the refinancing of existing loans can result in completely new portfolios of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 0.32% of net loans, and 0.60% of non-performing loans at September 30, 2006. Our regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of September 30, 2006, we believe that the current allowance reflects probable incurred credit losses in the portfolio. Rising interest rates may hurt our profits. To be profitable we have to earn more interest on our loans and investments than we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Interest rates have increased in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 to date. If interest rates continue to rise, our net interest income and the value of our assets could be reduced if interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments. This is most likely to occur if short-term interest rates increase at a faster rate than long-term interest rates, which would cause income to go down. In addition, rising interest rates may hurt our income, because they may reduce the demand for loans and the value of our securities. A flat yield curve also may hurt our income, because it would reduce our ability to reinvest proceeds from loan and investment repayments at higher rates. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in the Annual Report, attached hereto as Exhibit 13. 27 Next Page During 2005 and 2006, interest rates on deposits have been increasing at a slightly faster pace than rates on loans, which has reduced our net interest margin, return on assets and return on equity. See "Selected Consolidated Financial Information and Other Data" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in the Annual Report, attached hereto as Exhibit 13. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be affected adversely by negative examination results and changes in laws and regulations. Citizens Community Federal is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"), the insurer of our deposits. Citizens Community Bancorp, Inc. is subject to regulation and supervision by the OTS. This regulation and supervision governs the activities in which we may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance fund administered by the FDIC and our depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in this regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations and profitability. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources and broader lending authority than we have, have greater name recognition and market presence, which benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. Our business is geographically concentrated in Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan and a downturn in economic conditions in these states could reduce our profits. Most of our loans are to individuals located in Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan. Any decline in the economy of these states could have an adverse impact on our earnings. Decreases in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy also may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 28 Next Page 