Item 1A. Risk Factors. We rely heavily on sales to the U.S. government, particularly to agencies of the Department of Defense. Historically, a significant portion of our total sales and substantially all of our small UAS sales have been to the U.S. government and its agencies. Sales to the U.S. government, either as a prime contractor or subcontractor, represented approximately 83% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended 24 Table of Contents April 30, 2012. The DoD, our principal U.S. government customer, accounted for approximately 71% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2012. We believe that the success and growth of our business for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to win government contracts, in particular from the DoD. Many of our government customers are subject to budgetary constraints and our continued performance under these contracts, or award of additional contracts from these agencies, could be jeopardized by spending reductions or budget cutbacks at these agencies. The funding of U.S. government programs is uncertain and dependent on continued congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds based on an annual budgeting process. We cannot assure you that current levels of congressional funding for our products and services will continue. Furthermore, all of our contracts with the U.S. government are terminable by the U.S. government at will. A significant decline in government expenditures generally, or with respect to programs for which we provide products, could adversely affect our business and prospects. Our operating results may also be negatively impacted by other developments that affect these government programs generally, including the following: •changes in government programs that are related to our products and services; •adoption of new laws or regulations relating to government contracting or changes to existing laws or regulations; •changes in political or public support for security and defense programs; •delays or changes in the government appropriations and budget process; •uncertainties associated with the current global threat environment and other geo-political matters; and •delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. These developments and other factors could cause governmental agencies to reduce their purchases under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts at-will or to abstain from renewing contracts, any of which would cause our revenue to decline and could otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Military transformation and changes in overseas operational levels may affect future procurement priorities and existing programs, which could limit demand for our UAS. Following the end of the Cold War, the U.S. military began a transformation of its operational concepts, organizational structure and technologies in an effort to adapt its warfighting capabilities to the new threat environment. The resulting shift in procurement priorities toward achieving these capabilities, together with the operational activity in Afghanistan and Iraq, led to an increase in demand for our small UAS. We cannot predict whether current or future changes in priorities due to defense transformation or a change in the threat environment will afford new opportunities for our small UAS business in terms of existing, additional or replacement programs. Furthermore, we cannot predict whether or to what extent this defense transformation or current overseas operational levels will continue. If defense transformation or overseas operations cease or slow down, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be impacted. We operate in evolving markets, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. Our UAS, electric vehicle charging systems and other energy technologies are sold in new and rapidly evolving markets. Accordingly, our business and future prospects may be difficult to evaluate. We cannot accurately predict the extent to which demand for our products will increase, if at all. The 25 Table of Contents challenges, risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in rapidly evolving markets could impact our ability to do the following: •generate sufficient revenue to maintain profitability; •acquire and maintain market share; •manage growth in our operations; •develop and renew contracts; •attract and retain additional engineers and other highly-qualified personnel; •successfully develop and commercially market new products; •adapt to new or changing policies and spending priorities of governments and government agencies; and •access additional capital when required and on reasonable terms. If we fail to address these and other challenges, risks and uncertainties successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially harmed. We face competition from other firms, many of which have substantially greater resources. The defense industry is highly competitive and generally characterized by intense competition to win contracts. Our current principal small UAS competitors include Elbit Systems Ltd., L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. and Lockheed Martin Corporation. We do not view large UAS such as Northrop Grumman Corporation's Global Hawk, General Atomics, Inc.'s Predator and related products, The Boeing Company's ScanEagle and Textron Inc.'s Shadow as direct competitors because they perform different missions, do not typically deliver their information directly to front-line ground forces, and are not hand launched and controlled, although we cannot be certain that these platforms will not become direct competitors in the future. Some of these firms have substantially greater financial, management, research and marketing resources than we have. Our UAS services business also faces competition from smaller businesses that can provide training and logistics services for multiple UAS platforms, including our small UAS. The primary direct competitors to our PosiCharge industrial electric vehicle charging system business are other fast charge suppliers, including Aker Wade Power Technologies LLC, PowerDesigners, LLC and ECOtality Inc., as well as industrial battery manufacturers who distribute fast charging systems from these suppliers. The primary direct competitors to our power cycling and test system business are other test system suppliers, including Bitrode Corporation and Digatron Firing Circuits. Our primary competitors in the emerging market for passenger and fleet electric vehicle charging systems include charging system suppliers such as Coulomb Technologies Inc., ECOtality Inc. and ClipperCreek Inc. As the passenger and fleet electric and hybrid electric vehicle charging systems market grows we expect that certain charging products may begin to be viewed as commodities, and we therefore anticipate increasing competition from various charging system suppliers and large industrial electrical device suppliers such as Eaton Corporation, General Electric Company, Leviton Manufacturing Co., Inc., Schneider Electric SA, The ABB Group and Siemens AG. Our electric vehicle charging system installation and support services business faces competition from local licensed electricians as well as larger electrical service providers. Our competitors may be able to provide customers with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide in areas such as technical qualifications, past contract performance, geographic presence, price and the availability of key professional personnel, including those with security clearances. Furthermore, many of our competitors may be able to utilize their substantially greater resources and economies of scale to develop competing products and technologies, manufacture in high 26 Table of Contents volumes more efficiently, divert sales away from us by winning broader contracts or hire away our employees by offering more lucrative compensation packages. Small business competitors in our services businesses may be able to offer more cost competitive services, due to their lower overhead costs, and take advantage of small business incentive and set-aside programs for which we are ineligible. In the event that the market for small UAS or electric vehicle charging systems and services expands, we expect that competition will intensify as additional competitors enter the market and current competitors expand their product lines. In order to secure contracts successfully when competing with larger, well-financed companies, we may be forced to agree to contractual terms that provide for lower aggregate payments to us over the life of the contract, which could adversely affect our margins. In addition, larger diversified competitors serving as prime contractors may be able to supply underlying products and services from affiliated entities, which would prevent us from competing for subcontracting opportunities on these contracts. Our failure to compete effectively with respect to any of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. If the UAS, electric vehicle charging and power cycling and test systems markets do not experience significant growth, if we cannot expand our customer base or if our products do not achieve broad acceptance, then we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2012, our UAS and EES businesses accounted for 84% and 16% of our total revenue, respectively. We cannot accurately predict the future growth rates or sizes of these markets. Demand for our products may not increase, or may decrease, either generally or in specific markets, for particular types of products or during particular time periods. We believe the market for electric vehicle charging is nascent. Moreover, there are only a limited number of major programs under which the U.S. military, our primary customer, is currently funding the development or purchase of our UAS. Although we are seeking to expand our customer base to include foreign governments, domestic non-military agencies and commercial customers, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful. The expansion of the UAS, electric vehicle charging and power cycling and test systems markets in general, and the market for our products in particular, depends on a number of factors, including the following: •customer satisfaction with these types of systems as solutions; •the cost, performance and reliability of our products and products offered by our competitors; •customer perceptions regarding the effectiveness and value of these types of systems; •the availability and adoption of electric and hybrid electric vehicles; •limitations on our ability to market our UAS products and services outside the United States due to U.S. government regulations; •obtaining timely regulatory approvals, including, with respect to our small UAS business, access to airspace and wireless spectrum; and, with respect to our electric vehicle charging business, proper certifications and licenses to offer and perform electrical installation work; and •marketing efforts and publicity regarding these types of systems. Even if UAS, electric vehicle charging and power cycling and test systems gain wide market acceptance, our products may not adequately address market requirements and may not continue to gain market acceptance. If these types of systems generally, or our products specifically, do not gain wide market acceptance, then we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our revenue and results of operations would suffer. 27 Table of Contents If critical components of our products that we currently purchase from a small number of suppliers or raw materials used to manufacture our products become scarce or unavailable, then we may incur delays in manufacturing and delivery of our products, which could damage our business. We obtain hardware components and various subsystems from a limited group of suppliers. We do not have long-term agreements with any of these suppliers that obligate them to continue to sell components or products to us. Our reliance on these suppliers involves significant risks and uncertainties, including whether our suppliers will provide an adequate supply of required components of sufficient quality, will increase prices for the components and will perform their obligations on a timely basis. In addition, certain raw materials and components used in the manufacture of our products are periodically subject to supply shortages, and our business is subject to the risk of price increases and periodic delays in delivery. Similarly, the market for electronic components is subject to cyclical reductions in supply. If we are unable to obtain components from third- party suppliers in the quantities and of the quality that we require, on a timely basis and at acceptable prices, then we may not be able to deliver our products on a timely or cost-effective basis to our customers, which could cause customers to terminate their contracts with us, increase our costs and seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, if any of our suppliers become financially unstable, then we may have to find new suppliers. It may take several months to locate alternative suppliers, if required, or to redesign our products to accommodate components from different suppliers. We may experience significant delays in manufacturing and shipping our products to customers and incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply if we lose any of these sources or are required to redesign our products. We cannot predict if we will be able to obtain replacement components within the time frames that we require at an affordable cost, if at all. Any efforts to expand our offerings beyond our current markets may not succeed, which could negatively impact our operating results. We have focused on selling our small UAS to the U.S. military, our industrial electric vehicle fast charging and test systems to large industrial electric vehicle fleet operators primarily in North America, our power cycling and test systems primarily to research and development facilities in North America, and our electric vehicle charging systems to domestic commercial customers, distributors and consumers. We plan, however, to seek to expand our UAS sales into other government and commercial markets, and our industrial electric vehicle charging and power cycling and test systems and electric vehicle charging systems sales into international markets. Efforts to expand our product offerings beyond the markets that we currently serve may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to unproven businesses that may not generate additional sales, either of which could significantly impair our operating results. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals from the FAA or other governmental agencies, or limitations put on the use of small UAS in response to public privacy concerns, may prevent us from expanding the sales of our small UAS to non-military customers in the United States. In 2006, the FAA issued a clarification of its existing policies stating that, in order to engage in public use of small UAS in the U.S. National Airspace System, a public operator must obtain a COA from the FAA, or fly in restricted airspace. The FAA's COA approval process requires that the public operator certify the airworthiness of the aircraft for its intended purpose, that a collision with another aircraft or other airspace user is extremely improbable, that the small unmanned aircraft system complies with appropriate cloud and terrain clearances and that the operator or spotter of the small unmanned aircraft system is generally within one half-mile laterally and 400 feet vertically of the small unmanned aircraft system while in operation. Furthermore, the FAA's clarification of existing policy 28 Table of Contents stateed that the rules for radio-controlled hobby aircraft do not apply to public or commercial use of small UAS. On February 14, 2012, the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 was enacted, establishing various deadlines for the FAA to allow expanded use of small UAS for both public and commercial applications. In response to this direction, the FAA and the DOJ established an agreement on May 14, 2012 that, if implemented in a timely and efficient manner, may allow more use of small UAS by U.S. law enforcement agencies. The FAA has also drafted updated regulations specifically for small UAS commercial operations and is in the process of obtaining approval to release for public comment . However, we cannot assure you that these actions will result in the expanded use of our small UAS by law enforcement or other non-military government agencies or commercial entities and we may not be able to expand our sales of small UAS beyond our military customers, which could harm our business prospects. In addition, there exists public concern regarding the privacy implications of U.S. commercial and law enforcement use of small UAS. This concern has included calls to develop explicit written policies and procedures establishing usage limitations. We cannot assure you that the response from regulatory agencies, customers and privacy advocates to these concerns will not delay or restrict the adoption of small UAS by non-military customers. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, which requires us to develop new products and product enhancements, and could render our existing products obsolete. Continuing technological changes in the market for our products could make our products less competitive or obsolete, either generally or for particular applications. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce a variety of new capabilities and enhancements to our existing product offerings, as well as introduce a variety of new product offerings, to address the changing needs of the markets in which we offer our products. Delays in introducing new products and enhancements, the failure to choose correctly among technical alternatives or the failure to offer innovative products or enhancements at competitive prices may cause existing and potential customers to purchase our competitors' products. If we are unable to devote adequate resources to develop new products or cannot otherwise successfully develop new products or enhancements that meet customer requirements on a timely basis, our products could lose market share, our revenue and profits could decline, and we could experience operating losses. The electric vehicle charging industry is especially dynamic. For example, a single fast charge connector communication protocol standard for the U.S. market has not yet been established, although other standards are emerging throughout the world. If we are unable to accurately anticipate fast charge standards that are adopted in our potential markets or develop products that meet such standards quickly enough to meet customer requirements, our electric vehicle charging systems could lose market share, our revenue and profits could decline, and we could experience operating losses. We expect to incur substantial research and development costs and devote significant resources to identifying and commercializing new products, which could significantly reduce our profitability and may never result in revenue to us. Our future growth depends on penetrating new markets, adapting existing products to new applications, and introducing new products that achieve market acceptance. We plan to incur substantial research and development costs as part of our efforts to design, develop and commercialize new products and enhance existing products. We spent $31.0 million, or 10% of our revenue, in our fiscal year ended April 30, 2012 on research and development activities and expect to continue to spend significant funds on research and development in the future. Because we account for research 29 Table of Contents and development as an operating expense, these expenditures will adversely affect our earnings in the future. Further, our research and development programs may not produce successful results, and our new products may not achieve market acceptance, create additional revenue or become profitable, which could materially harm our business, prospects, financial results and liquidity. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. Our headcount and operations have grown rapidly over the last several years. This rapid growth has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. We anticipate further growth of headcount and facilities will be required to address expansion in our product offerings and the geographic scope of our customer base. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage this growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to hire, train, manage and integrate a significant number of qualified managers and engineers. If our new employees perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or retaining these or our existing employees, then our business may suffer. For us to continue our growth, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management information systems. If we are unable to manage our growth while maintaining our quality of service, or if new systems that we implement to assist in managing our growth do not produce the expected benefits, then our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. Our earnings and profit margins may decrease based on the mix of our contracts and programs and other factors related to our contracts. In general, we perform our production work under fixed-price contracts and our repair and customer-funded research and development work under cost-plus-fee contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we perform services under a contract at a stipulated price. Under cost-plus-fee contracts, which are subject to a contract ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. We typically experience lower profit margins under cost-plus-fee contracts than under fixed-price contracts, though fixed-price contracts have higher risks. In general, if the volume of services we perform under cost-plus-fee contracts increases relative to the volume of services we perform under fixed- price contracts, we expect that our operating margin will suffer. In addition, our earnings and margins may decrease depending on the costs we incur in contract performance, our achievement of other contract performance objectives and the stage of our performance at which our right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Our senior management and key employees are important to our customer relationships and overall business. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued contributions of our senior management and key employees. We rely on our executive officers, senior management and key employees to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that members of our management team and key employees have established and maintain with government defense personnel contribute to our ability to maintain good customer relations and to identify new business opportunities. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers or key employees, and these individuals could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of any of our executive officers, members of our senior management team or key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and could materially harm our business and customer relationships and impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts and otherwise manage our business. 30 Table of Contents We must recruit and retain highly-skilled employees to succeed in our competitive business. We depend on our ability to recruit and retain employees who have advanced engineering and technical services skills and who work well with our customers. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, then our ability to maintain our competitiveness and grow our business could be negatively affected. In addition, because of the highly technical nature of our products, the loss of any significant number of our existing engineering personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Moreover, some of our U.S. government contracts contain provisions requiring us to staff a program with certain personnel the customer considers key to our successful performance under the contract. In the event we are unable to provide these key personnel or acceptable substitutes, the customer may terminate the contract. Our business may be dependent upon our employees obtaining and maintaining required security clearances, as well as our ability to obtain security clearances for the facilities in which we perform sensitive government work. Certain of our U.S. government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances, and we are required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with DoD requirements. The DoD has strict security clearance requirements for personnel who work on classified programs. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain security clearances in a timely manner, or at all, or if our employees who hold security clearances are unable to maintain the clearances or terminate employment with us, then a customer requiring classified work could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, we expect that many of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and employ personnel with specified types of security clearances. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively rebid on expiring contracts. Cost overruns on our contracts could subject us to losses, decrease our operating margins and adversely affect our future business. Fixed-price contracts (including both government and commercial contracts) represented approximately 76% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2012. If we fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during our performance of fixed-price contracts, then we may incur losses on these contracts because we absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. Under cost-plus-fee contracts, if costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, then we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control the costs we incur in performing under the contract, then our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. Our products are complex and could have unknown defects or errors, which may give rise to claims against us, diminish our brand or divert our resources from other purposes. Our UAS rely on complex avionics, sensors, user-friendly interfaces and tightly-integrated, electromechanical designs to accomplish their missions, and our electric vehicle charging and power cycling and test systems often rely upon the application of intellectual property for which there may have been little or no prior commercial application. Despite testing, our products have contained 31 Table of Contents defects and errors and may in the future contain defects, errors or performance problems when first introduced, when new versions or enhancements are released, or even after these products have been used by our customers for a period of time. These problems could result in expensive and time-consuming design modifications or warranty charges, delays in the introduction of new products or enhancements, significant increases in our service and maintenance costs, exposure to liability for damages, damaged customer relationships and harm to our reputation, any of which could materially harm our results of operations and ability to achieve market acceptance. In addition, increased development and warranty costs could be substantial and could reduce our operating margins. The existence of any defects, errors, or failures in our products or the misuse of our products could also lead to product liability claims or lawsuits against us. A defect, error or failure in one of our UAS could result in injury, death or property damage and significantly damage our reputation and support for our UAS in general. We anticipate this risk will grow as our UAS begin to be used in U.S. domestic airspace and urban areas. While our PosiCharge industrial electric vehicle charging systems include certain safety mechanisms, these systems can deliver up to 600 amps of current in their application, and the failure, malfunction or misuse of these systems could result in injury or death. Our passenger and fleet electric and hybrid electric vehicle charging systems also have the potential to cause injury, death or property damage in the event that they are misused, malfunction or fail to operate properly due to unknown defects or errors. Although we maintain insurance policies, we cannot assure you that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to potential future claims or that these levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or at all. A successful product liability claim could result in substantial cost to us. Even if we are fully insured as it relates to a claim, the claim could nevertheless diminish our brand and divert management's attention and resources, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future profitability is dependent upon achieving cost reductions and projected economies of scale from increasing manufacturing quantities of our electric vehicle charging systems. Failing to achieve such reductions in manufacturing costs and projected economies of scale could materially adversely affect our business. We have limited experience manufacturing our electric vehicle charging systems in high volume. We do not know whether or when we will be able to develop efficient, low-cost manufacturing capabilities and processes that will enable us to manufacture these products in commercial quantities while meeting the volume, speed, quality, price, engineering, design and production standards required to successfully market our products. Our failure to develop such manufacturing processes and capabilities in locations that can efficiently service our markets would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We recently began volume production of electric vehicle charging systems in Taiwan, Italy and the United States. Historically, we have produced PosiCharge industrial electric vehicle charging systems and power cycling and test systems only in limited production quantities. Our future profitability is, in part, dependent upon achieving increased savings from volume purchases of raw materials and component parts, achieving acceptable manufacturing yield and capitalizing on machinery efficiencies. We expect our suppliers to experience a sharp increase in demand for their products. As a result, we may not have reliable access to supplies that we require or be able to purchase such materials or components at cost effective prices. There is no assurance that we will ever be in a position to realize any material, labor and machinery cost reductions associated with higher purchasing power and higher production levels. Failure to achieve these cost reductions could adversely impact our business and financial results. 32 Table of Contents We face significant risks in overseeing our outsourcing of manufacturing processes as well as in the management of our inventory, and failure to properly oversee our manufacturing processes or to effectively manage our inventory levels may result in product recalls or supply imbalances that could harm our business. We have contracted for the manufacture of certain electric vehicle charging systems with contract manufacturers. We sell these units directly and through distributors, as well as through our own online sales channels. We face significant risks if our contract manufacturers do not perform as expected. If we fail to effectively oversee the manufacturing process, including the work performed by our contract manufacturers, we could suffer from product recalls, poorly performing products and higher than anticipated warranty costs. In connection with our manufacturing operations, we maintain a finished goods inventory of electric vehicle charging units in various locations, including with third party logistics providers. Due to the long-lead time of our manufacturing cycles, we need to make forecasts of demand and commit significant resources towards manufacturing our electric vehicle charging units. As such, we are subject to significant risks in managing the inventory needs of our business during the year, including estimates of the appropriate demand across our models. Should actual market conditions differ from our estimates, our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In the future, we may be required to record write-downs of finished products and materials on-hand and/or additional charges for excess purchase commitments as a result of future changes in our sales forecasts. Due to the volatile and flammable nature of certain components of our products and equipment, fires or explosions may disrupt our business or cause significant injuries, which could adversely affect our financial results The development and manufacture of certain of our products involves the handling of a variety of explosive and flammable materials as well as high power equipment. From time to time, these activities may result in incidents that could cause us to temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupt some manufacturing processes, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and/or fatalities. We have safety and loss prevention programs that require detailed reviews of process changes and new operations, along with routine safety audits of operations involving explosive materials, to mitigate such incidents, as well as a variety of insurance policies. However, we cannot ensure that we will not experience such incidents in the future or that any such incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The operation of UAS in urban environments may be subject to risks, such as accidental collisions and transmission interference, which may limit demand for our UAS in such environments and harm our business and operating results. Urban environments may present certain challenges to the operators of UAS. UAS may accidentally collide with other aircraft, persons or property, which could result in injury, death or property damage and significantly damage the reputation of and support for UAS in general. While we are aware of only one instance of an accidental collision involving one of our UAS to date, as the usage of UAS has increased, particularly by military customers, the danger of such collisions has increased. Furthermore, the incorporation of our DDL technology into our UAS has increased the number of vehicles which can operate simultaneously in a given area and with this increase has come an increase in the risk of accidental collision. In addition, obstructions to effective transmissions in urban environments, such as large buildings, may limit the ability of the operator to utilize the aircraft for its intended purpose. The risks or limitations of operating UAS in urban environments may limit their value in such environments, which may limit demand for our UAS and consequently materially harm our business and operating results. 33 Table of Contents As a manufacturer of electrical vehicle charging products and provider of electrical installation services to consumers, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. In addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. As a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the United States, under The Consumer Products Safety Act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. In addition, certain of our electrical contracting services are subject to regulation by various government authorities. While we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future. Failure to comply could result in sanctions that could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. The costs associated with any future product recalls, individually and in the aggregate in any given fiscal year, could be significant. In addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations. Governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future, and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. In addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. Complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. Similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. Such increased costs or penalties could harm our business. In addition to government regulation, products that have been or may be developed by us may expose us to potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of such products. There can be no assurance that a claim will not be brought against us in the future. Any successful claim could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly operating results may vary widely. Our quarterly revenue, cash flow and operating results have and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, including the following: •fluctuations in revenue derived from government contracts, including cost-plus-fee contracts and contracts with a performance-based fee structure; •the size and timing of orders from military and other governmental agencies, including increased purchase requests from government customers for equipment and materials in connection with the U.S. government's fiscal year end, which may affect our quarterly operating results; •the mix of products that we sell in the period; •seasonal fluctuations in customer demand for some of our products or services; •unanticipated costs incurred in the introduction of new products; •fluctuations in the adoption of our products in new markets; •changes in the level of tax credits available for research and development spending; •cancellations, delays or contract amendments by our governmental agency customers; and •changes in policy or budgetary measures that adversely affect our governmental agency customers. 34 Table of Contents Changes in the volume of products and services provided under existing contracts and the number of contracts commenced, completed or terminated during any quarter may cause significant variations in our cash flow from operations because a relatively large amount of our expenses are fixed. We incur significant operating expenses during the start-up and early stages of large contracts and typically do not receive corresponding payments in that same quarter. We may also incur significant or unanticipated expenses when contracts expire or are terminated or are not renewed. In addition, payments due to us from government agencies may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of failures of governmental budgets to gain congressional and presidential administration approval in a timely manner. Shortfalls in available external research and development funding could adversely affect us. We depend on our research and development activities to develop the core technologies used in our UAS and EES products and for the development of our future products. A portion of our research and development activities depends on funding by commercial companies and the U.S. government. U.S. government and commercial spending levels can be impacted by a number of variables, including general economic conditions, specific companies' financial performance and competition for U.S. government funding with other U.S. government-sponsored programs in the budget formulation and appropriation processes. Moreover, the U.S., state and local governments provide energy rebates and incentives to commercial companies, which directly impact the amount of research and development that companies appropriate for energy systems. To the extent that these energy rebates and incentives are reduced or eliminated, company funding for research and development could be reduced. Any reductions in available research and development funding could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Volatility and cyclicality in the market for electric industrial vehicles could adversely affect us. Our PosiCharge industrial electric vehicle charging system products are purchased primarily by operators of fleets of electric industrial vehicles, such as forklift trucks and airport ground support equipment. Consequently, our ability to remain profitable depends in part on the varying conditions in the market for electric industrial vehicles. This market is subject to volatility as it moves in response to cycles in the overall business environment and it is also particularly sensitive to the industrial, food and beverage, retail and air travel sectors, which generate a significant portion of the demand for such vehicles. Sales of electric industrial vehicles have historically been cyclical, with demand affected by such economic factors as industrial production, construction levels, demand for consumer and durable goods, interest rates and fuel costs. A significant decline in demand for electric industrial vehicles could adversely affect our revenue and prospects, which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our success in the emerging market for passenger and fleet electric and hybrid electric vehicle charging systems will depend on numerous factors which are out of our control. The passenger and fleet electric and hybrid electric vehicle charging systems market is expected to grow rapidly, along with innovations in fast charging technologies. As a result, we expect to face increasing competition from various charging system suppliers and large industrial electrical device suppliers such as Eaton Corporation, General Electric Company, Leviton Manufacturing Co., Inc., Schneider Electric SA, The ABB Group and Siemens AG. While we believe that we currently have superior charging technology and service infrastructure, we cannot assure you that competitors will not develop and bring to market substantially equivalent or superior technology. In addition, because the passenger electric and fleet charging systems market is relatively new, there is no guarantee that there will be strong consumer demand for charging systems. Demand for such systems could also be directly impacted by fuel costs; if fuel costs were to significantly decrease, the demand for electric vehicles and 35 Table of Contents charging systems could decline. If there is little consumer demand for our passenger electric and fleet charging systems, our revenue and prospects could be adversely affected, which would harm our business, financial and operating results. Our industrial electric vehicle charging systems business is dependent upon our relationships with third parties with whom we do not have exclusive arrangements. To remain competitive in the market for industrial electric vehicle charging systems, we must maintain our access to potential customers and ensure that the service needs of our customers are met adequately. In many cases, we rely on battery and industrial vehicle dealers for access to potential industrial electric vehicle charging system customers. Currently, several of our industrial electric vehicle charging system competitors are working with battery manufacturers to sell fast charging systems and batteries together. Cooperative agreements between our competitors and battery manufacturers could restrict our access to battery dealers and potential industrial electric vehicle charging systems customers, adversely affecting our revenue and prospects. Additionally, we rely on outside service providers to perform post-sale services for our PosiCharge industrial electric vehicle charging system customers. If these service providers fail to perform these services as required or discontinue their business with us, then we could lose customers to competitors, which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our electric and hybrid electric vehicle charging system business is dependent upon our development of relationships with automakers, auto dealers, utilities and other participants in the electric and hybrid electric vehicle and electricity delivery markets. We have been selected by several major automakers to support the rollout of new model electric vehicles across the U.S. with our home charging system. Accordingly, we depend upon those relationships and the success of the home charging rollout to those new model electric vehicle owners to expand our charging system footprint in the United States and worldwide. If one or more of our partnerships with those major automakers terminates prematurely, and we cannot establish similar relationships with other entities with direct access to electric vehicle owners and drivers, we may not be able to develop a sustainable market for our home charging system, which may delay the commercialization of our charging systems or jeopardize the long-term success of this product line. We believe that the success and growth of our passenger and fleet electric vehicle charging system business for the foreseeable future will also depend on our ability to develop similar working relationships with other automakers, as well as auto dealers, utilities, and other participants in the electric and hybrid electric vehicle and electricity delivery markets in the U.S. and internationally. While we have been working with other automakers and utilities to explore business models and to promote our solutions, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in doing so. Our work for the U.S. government and international governments may expose us to security risks. As a U.S. government contractor, we face various security threats, including cyber security attacks to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information as well as threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent disruptions, the unauthorized release of confidential information or corruption of data. Accordingly, any significant operational delays, or any destruction, manipulation or improper use of our data, information systems or networks could adversely affect our financial results and damage the reputation for our products and services. If we or our partners are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. 36 Table of Contents In addition, we work in international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs. Some of our services are performed in or adjacent to high-risk locations, such as Iraq and Afghanistan, where the country or location is suffering from political, social or economic issues, or war or civil unrest. In those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. Despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors, which could harm our business and operating results. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. We operate in emerging and rapidly evolving markets, which makes our prospects difficult to evaluate. It is possible that we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise have the capital resources to meet our future capital needs. If this occurs, then we may need additional financing to pursue our business strategies, including to: •hire additional engineers and other personnel; •develop new or enhance existing products; •enhance our operating infrastructure; •fund working capital requirements; •acquire complementary businesses or technologies; or •otherwise respond to competitive pressures. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our former line of credit contained, and future debt financing may contain, covenants or other provisions that limit our operational or financial flexibility. In addition, certain of our customers require that we obtain letters of credit to support our obligations under some of our contracts. Our investment portfolio includes investments in auction rate securities. Failures in the auctions for these securities affect our liquidity, while deterioration in credit ratings of issuers of such securities and/or third parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust the carrying value of our investment through an impairment of earnings. As of April 30, 2012, our $6.2 million of long-term investments, recorded at fair value, consisted entirely of auction rate municipal bonds with maturities that range from approximately 7 to 22 years. These investments have characteristics similar to short-term investments, because at pre-determined intervals, generally ranging from 30 to 35 days, there is a new auction process at which the interest rates for these securities are reset to current interest rates. At the end of such period, we choose to roll-over our holdings or redeem the investments for cash. A market maker facilitates the redemption of the securities and the underlying issuers are not required to redeem the investment within 365 days. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, we experienced failed auctions of our auction rate securities and there is no assurance that auctions on the remaining auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will succeed in the future. As a result, our ability to liquidate our investments in the near term may be limited, and our ability to recover the carrying value of our investments may be limited. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell securities were not able to do so. As of June 15, 2012, including the securities involved in failed auctions, we held approximately $7.3 million of these auction 37 Table of Contents rate securities, all of which carry investment grade ratings. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by continued problems in the global credit markets, including but not limited to, U.S. subprime mortgage defaults, writedowns by major financial institutions due to deteriorating values of their assets portfolios, including leveraged loans, collateralized debt obligations, credit default swaps, and other credit-linked products. These and other related factors have affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. If the issuers of these securities are unable to successfully close future auctions or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. We currently believe these securities are not permanently impaired, primarily due to the government backing of the underlying securities. However, it could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 22 years) to realize our investments' purchase price of $7.3 million. Based on our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents, expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate that the current lack of liquidity on these investments will affect our ability to continue to operate our business in the ordinary course, however we can provide no assurance as to when these investments will again become liquid or as to whether we may ultimately have to recognize an impairment charge with respect to these investments. We face risks related to the current challenging economic environment. Our business, financial condition and results of operation could be negatively affected by economic conditions generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. Continuing concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a difficult residential real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and continued unemployment concerns, have resulted in heightened volatility and turmoil in domestic and international equity markets. These events and the continuing market upheavals could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including: Potential Deferment of Purchases and Orders by Customers: Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause governments, including the U.S. government, which is our largest customer, consumers and businesses to modify, defer or cancel purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. Accordingly, future demand for our products could differ materially from our current expectations. Additionally, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Key Suppliers: Our ability to meet customers' demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. Certain of our hardware components and various subsystems are available only from a limited group of suppliers. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of a continuing market downturn, then we may have to find new suppliers. We may experience significant delays in manufacturing and shipping our products to customers and incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply if we lose any of these sources or are required to redesign our products. We cannot predict if we will be able to obtain replacement components within the time frames that we require at an affordable cost, if at all. In addition, credit constraints of key suppliers could result in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. Customers' Inability to Obtain Financing to Make Purchases from Us and/or Maintain Their Business: Some of our customers may require substantial financing in order to fund their operations and make 38 Table of Contents purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products, or otherwise meet their payment obligations to us could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if a continuing market downturn results in insolvencies for our customers, it could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our international business poses potentially greater risks than our domestic business. We derived approximately 5% of our revenue from international sales during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2012. We expect to derive an increasing portion of our revenue from international sales. Our international revenue and operations are subject to a number of material risks, including the following: •the unavailability of, or difficulties in obtaining any, necessary governmental authorizations for the export of our UAS products to certain foreign jurisdictions; •regulatory requirements that may adversely affect our ability to sell certain products or repatriate profits to the U.S.; •the complexity and necessity of using foreign representatives and consultants; •difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems and other relevant legal issues, including fewer legal protections for intellectual property; •potential fluctuations in foreign economies and in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates; •potential preferences by prospective customers to purchase from local (non-U.S.) sources; •general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; •laws or regulations relating to non-U.S. military contracts that favor purchases from non-U.S. manufacturers over U.S. manufacturers; •the imposition of tariffs, embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; and •different and changing legal and regulatory requirements, including those pertaining to data protection and privacy, in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in demand for our products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables and a higher cost of doing business, any of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, our sales, including sales to customers outside the United States, are denominated in dollars, and downward fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make our products more expensive than other products, which could harm our business. Potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. We intend to consider strategic acquisitions that would add to our customer base, technological capabilities or system offerings. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including the following: •difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; •difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the target company; 39 Table of Contents •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; •the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; •risks of entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; •potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company's business; •assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company's products; and •inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity, or securities convertible into equity, then our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could lower the market price of our common stock. If we finance acquisitions through debt, then such future debt financing may contain covenants or other provisions that limit our operational or financial flexibility. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, then we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. Environmental laws and regulations and unforeseen costs could impact our future earnings. The manufacture and sale of our products in certain states and countries may subject us to environmental and other regulations. For example, we obtain a significant number of our electronics components from companies located in East Asia, where environmental rules may be less stringent than in the United States. Over time, the countries where these companies are located may adopt more stringent environmental regulations, resulting in an increase in our manufacturing costs. Furthermore, certain environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive, Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, impose strict, joint and several liability on current and previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances and impose liability for damages to natural resources. These laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. These environmental laws also assess liability on persons who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities when such facilities are found to be contaminated. Such persons can be responsible for cleanup costs even if they never owned or operated the contaminated facility. Although we have not yet been named a responsible party at a contaminated site, we could be named a potentially responsible party in the future. We cannot assure you that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on our future earnings or results of operations. Our passenger and fleet electric vehicle charging system business is subject to federal, state and international laws regarding data protection and privacy, and a privacy breach could damage our reputation, expose us to litigation risk and adversely affect our business. In connection with our emerging passenger and fleet electric vehicle charging system business, we collect, process and retain certain sensitive and confidential customer information. As a result, we are subject to increasingly rigorous federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and data protection. Compliance with these constantly evolving laws may cause us to incur significant costs or require changes to our business practices, which could reduce our revenue. If we fail to comply with 40 Table of Contents these laws, proceedings may be brought against us by governmental entities or others or penalties may be imposed on us, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we rely, in part, on security services and software provided by outside vendors to protect sensitive and confidential customer information, there is no guarantee that the protections that we or our outside vendors have implemented will prevent security breaches. Any actual, threatened or perceived security breach that could result in misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer information could harm our reputation and relationship with customers, expose us to litigation risk and liability and adversely affect our business. Our business and operations are subject to the risks of earthquakes and other natural catastrophic events. Our corporate headquarters, research and development and manufacturing operations are located in Southern California, a region known for seismic activity and wild fires. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event, could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations, and as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our U.S. Government Contracts We are subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business. As a contractor to the U.S. government, we are subject to and must comply with various government regulations that impact our revenue, operating costs, profit margins and the internal organization and operation of our business. The most significant regulations and regulatory authorities affecting our business include the following: •the Federal Acquisition Regulations and supplemental agency regulations, which comprehensively regulate the formation and administration of, and performance under, U.S. government contracts; •the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all factual cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; •the False Claims Act and the False Statements Act, which impose penalties for payments made on the basis of false facts provided to the government and on the basis of false statements made to the government, respectively; •the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from providing anything of value to a foreign official to help obtain, retain or direct business, or obtain any unfair advantage; •the National Telecommunications and Information Administration and the Federal Communications Commission, which regulate the wireless spectrum allocations upon which UAS depend for operation and data transmission in the U.S.; •the Federal Aviation Administration, which is in the process of drafting regulations specifically for small UAS operation in the U.S.; •the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, which regulate the export of controlled technical data, defense articles and defense services and restrict from which countries we may purchase materials and services used in the production of certain of our products; and 41 Table of Contents •laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. Also, we need special security clearances and regulatory approvals to continue working on certain of our projects with the U.S. government. Classified programs generally will require that we comply with various executive orders, federal laws and regulations and customer security requirements that may include restrictions on how we develop, store, protect and share information, and may require our employees and facilities to obtain government security clearances. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations, rules and approvals or misconduct by any of our employees could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the loss of security clearances, the loss of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government generally, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to certain regulations of comparable government agencies in other countries, and our failure to comply with these non-U.S. regulations could also harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit or investigation by the U.S. government. U.S. government agencies, primarily the DCAA and the DCMA, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. These agencies also may review the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Like most government contractors, our contracts are audited and reviewed on a continual basis by the DCMA and the DCAA. Audits for costs incurred on work performed after fiscal year 2005 have not yet been completed. In addition, non-audit reviews or investigations by the government may still be conducted on all of our government contracts. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit or investigation of our business were to uncover improper or illegal activities, then we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. We could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety or illegal acts were made against us, even if the allegations were inaccurate. In addition, responding to governmental audits or investigations may involve significant expense and divert management attention. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, if any of our administrative processes and systems are found not to comply with the applicable requirements, we may be subjected to increased government scrutiny or required to obtain additional governmental approvals that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts. An unfavorable outcome to such an audit or investigation by the DCAA, U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ or other government agency, could materially adversely affect our competitive position, affect our ability to obtain the maximum price for our products and services, and result in a substantial reduction of our revenues. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally, or any specific agency, if our reputation or relationship with government agencies were impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our revenue and operating results would be materially harmed. 42 Table of Contents In February 2010, we were notified by the DOJ that it had initiated a civil investigation into our billing practices with respect to our government contracts. The investigation is focused on three matters: •the appropriateness of certain expenses included in our fiscal year 2006 Incurred Indirect Cost Claim (reconciliation of projected rates to actual rates); •billing labor rates associated with time and materials government contracts; and •billing rates for small UAS maintenance and repair contracts. We are currently cooperating with this investigation, which we believe may be the result of prior DCAA audit activity. Based on our current understanding of the matters identified, we believe that the outcome of the investigation will not have a material impact on our business. We have voluntarily cooperated with a request for information received in connection with this investigation. No claim has been filed against us to date. Some of our contracts with the U.S. government allow it to use inventions developed under the contracts and to disclose technical data to third parties, which could harm our ability to compete. Some of our contracts allow the U.S. government to use, royalty-free, or have others use, inventions developed under those contracts on behalf of the government. Some of the contracts allow the federal government to disclose technical data without constraining the recipient on how those data are used. The ability of third parties to use patents and technical data for government purposes creates the possibility that the government could attempt to establish alternative suppliers or to negotiate with us to reduce our prices. The potential that the government may release some of the technical data without constraint creates the possibility that third parties may be able to use this data to compete with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. U.S. government contracts are generally not fully funded at inception and contain certain provisions that may be unfavorable to us, which could prevent us from realizing our contract backlog and materially harm our business and results of operations. U.S. Government contracts typically involve long lead times for design and development, and are subject to significant changes in contract scheduling. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The termination or reduction of funding for a government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program. The actual receipt of revenue on awards included in backlog may never occur or may change because a program schedule could change or the program could be canceled, or a contract could be reduced, modified or terminated early. In addition, U.S. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, at the government's convenience or for contractor default. Since a substantial majority of our revenue is dependent on the procurement, performance and payment under our U.S. government contracts, the termination of one or more critical government contracts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to re-compete for future contracts and orders. Moreover, several of our contracts with the U.S. government do not contain a limitation of liability provision, creating a risk of responsibility for indirect, incidental damages and consequential damages. These provisions could cause substantial liability for us, especially given the use to which our products may be put. 43 Table of Contents U.S. government contracts are subject to a competitive bidding process that can consume significant resources without generating any revenue. U.S. government contracts are frequently awarded only after formal, protracted competitive bidding processes and, in many cases, unsuccessful bidders for U.S. government contracts are provided the opportunity to protest contract awards through various agency, administrative and judicial channels. We derive significant revenue from U.S. government contracts that were awarded through a competitive bidding process. Much of the UAS business that we expect to seek in the foreseeable future likely will be awarded through competitive bidding. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including the following: •the need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns; •the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that must be spent to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; •the need to estimate accurately the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we are awarded; and •the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the delay of our contract performance, the distraction of management, the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. We may not be provided the opportunity to bid on contracts that are held by other companies and are scheduled to expire if the government extends the existing contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through a competitive bidding process, then we may not be able to operate in the market for goods and services that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to win new contract awards over any extended period consistently, then our business and prospects will be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we fail to protect, or incur significant costs in defending, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. However, a significant portion of our technology is not patented, and we may be unable or may not seek to obtain patent protection for this technology. Moreover, existing U.S. legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights offer only limited protection, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, and may be challenged by third parties. The laws of countries other than the United States may be even less protective of intellectual property rights. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or otherwise gaining access to our technology. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer our products or portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Moreover, many of our employees have access to our trade secrets and other intellectual property. If one or more of these employees leave us to work for one of our competitors, then they may disseminate this proprietary information, which may as a result damage our competitive position. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, then our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed. 44 Table of Contents In addition, affirmatively defending our intellectual property rights and investigating whether we are pursuing a product or service development that may violate the rights of others may entail significant expense. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, then the proceedings could result in significant expense to us and divert the attention and efforts of our management and technical employees, even if we prevail. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which could be costly, time-consuming and limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. We may become subject to claims that our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of third parties. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive, and could divert our management's attention away from the execution of our business plan. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from these claims could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use the disputed technology, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain a license from the third party asserting the claim on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, that we would be able to develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all, or that we would be able to obtain a license to use a suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, our affected product. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our products to others. Infringement claims asserted against us may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market prices for securities of emerging technology companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including the following: •U.S. government spending levels, both generally and by our particular customers; •the volume of operational activity by the U.S. military; •delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices, resulting in potentially reduced earnings during a particular fiscal quarter; •announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events relating to us or our industry or our competitors; •failure of any of our key products to gain market acceptance; •variations in our quarterly operating results; •perceptions of the prospects for the markets in which we compete; •changes in general economic conditions; •changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance; •regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; •fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; 45 Table of Contents •news about the markets in which we compete or regarding our competitors; •terrorist acts or military action related to international conflicts, wars or otherwise; •sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; and •additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, the equity markets in general, and NASDAQ in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of securities of emerging technology companies have been particularly volatile. These broad market and industry factors may affect the market price of our common stock adversely, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against that company. This type of litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Our management, whose interests may not be aligned with yours, is able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval. As of June 15, 2012, our directors, executive officers and their affiliates collectively beneficially owned 3,900,940 shares, or approximately 17%, of our total outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, our directors and executive officers as a group may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors. The interests of our directors and executive officers may not be fully aligned with yours. Although there is no agreement among our directors and executive officers with respect to the voting of their shares, this concentration of ownership may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company, and make transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of all or some of our directors and executive officers. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 