ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The failure of the company to effectively anticipate and respond to market trends and changes in consumer preferences could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The company’s continued success depends in large part on its ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely and effective manner to changes in consumer spending patterns and preferences for beauty and other consumer products. The company must continually work to develop, produce and market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of its brands, achieve a favorable mix of products, and refine its approach as to how and where it markets and sells its products. While the company devotes considerable effort and resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, consumer spending patterns and preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and can change rapidly. If the company is unable to anticipate and respond to trends in the market for beauty and other consumer products and changing consumer demands, its business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer. Furthermore, material shifts or decreases in market demand for the company’s products, including changes in consumer spending patterns and preferences, could result in the company carrying inventories that are too high or cannot be sold at anticipated prices or increased product returns by its customers. Failure to maintain proper inventory levels or increased product returns by its customers could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The company manufactures and packages a majority of its products. The company purchases from various suppliers the raw materials and packaging for these products. The loss of one or more suppliers or a significant disruption or interruption in the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on the manufacturing and packaging of the company’s products. The company faces intense competition in its markets, and the failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The company faces intense competition from consumer product companies both in the U.S. and in its international markets. Most of the company’s products compete with other widely advertised brands within each product category. The company also encounters competition from similar and alternative products, many of which are produced and marketed by major multinational or national concerns. The company’s products generally compete on the basis of: • specific benefits to consumers; • marketing (including advertising, promotion, merchandising, packaging and trade customer relations); • product quality; and • price. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising and sales promotion. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continuing advertising and promotional support to maintain its relative market position. Many of the company’s competitors are larger and have financial resources greater than those of the company and may therefore be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than the company. In addition, the company’s competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by the company. Competitive pricing may require the company to reduce prices and could lead to a reduction in its sales or its profit margins. If the company is unable to compete effectively, such failure could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents The company depends on a limited number of customers for a large portion of its net sales, and the loss of any of these customers or a material reduction in sales to any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A limited number of customers account for a large percentage of the company’s net sales. The company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliated companies, accounted for approximately 21%, 20% and 19% of its net sales during fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. During fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, the company’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 30%, 29% and 28% of its net sales, respectively. The company expects that a significant portion of its net sales will continue to be derived from a small number of customers and that these percentages may increase if the growth of mass merchandisers continues. As a result, changes in the strategies of the company’s largest customers, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, could materially harm the company’s net sales and profitability. In addition, the company’s business is based primarily upon individual sales orders and the company rarely enters into long-term contracts with its customers. Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from the company at any time and for any reason. If the company loses a significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer materially decrease, it could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The acceleration of vesting of options to purchase shares of Alberto-Culver common stock and restricted shares in connection with the Separation may make it more difficult for the company to retain key employees. The company treated the separation transactions as though they constituted a change in control under Alberto-Culver’s equity compensation plans. Accordingly, all outstanding options to purchase shares of Alberto-Culver common stock and all shares of restricted stock vested upon completion of the Separation. The vesting of these options and restricted shares over a period of time was intended by Alberto-Culver to provide incentives to employees to remain with Alberto-Culver. The loss of this incentive may make it more difficult for the company to retain certain key employees. The loss of one or more key employees of the company for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The failure of the company to improve its margins through efficiency initiatives, as well as price increases in raw materials, could materially affect the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The company has taken a number of measures to increase the efficiency of the business as well as improve the company’s profit margins. For example, the company has announced the closing of two manufacturing facilities and the opening of a major manufacturing facility in Jonesboro, Arkansas. The company is also planning to implement a major new information system in certain key locations, including the United States and the United Kingdom. The failure of the Jonesboro facility to provide the anticipated operating efficiencies, including delays in its construction and full operation, could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the inability to successfully integrate the new information system in a timely manner, or the inability of the new system to work as anticipated, could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. As noted above, the company manufactures and packages a majority of its products. The principal raw materials used by the company include essential oils, chemicals, containers and packaging components. Increases in the costs of these or other raw materials used in the company’s business may materially and adversely affect the company’s profit margins if it is unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution. Large sophisticated customers may take actions that adversely affect the company’s margins and results of operations. In recent years, the company has experienced a consumer trend away from traditional grocery and drug store channels and toward mass merchandisers, which include super centers and club stores. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of these mass merchandisers. As these mass merchandisers grow larger and become more sophisticated, they may demand lower pricing, special packaging, or impose other requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics, or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If the company does not effectively respond to the demands of these mass merchandisers, they could decrease their purchases from the company, causing the company’s sales and profitability to materially decline. 6 Table of Contents The failure of the company to expand in existing geographic locations or enter new geographic locations could have a material adverse effect on the growth of the company’s business, sales and results of operations. The company’s ability to continue to grow its sales and profits is dependent on expanding in the locations in which it already does business and entering into new geographic locations. The failure to enter into or expand its business in such locations could materially affect the growth of the company’s business, sales and results of operations. Any future acquisitions and strategic alliances may expose the company to additional risks. The company frequently reviews acquisition prospects and other strategic alliances that would complement its current product offerings, increase the size and geographic scope of its operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities. The financing for any of these acquisitions could dilute the interests of the company stockholders, result in an increase in its indebtedness or both. Acquisitions and other strategic alliances may entail numerous risks, including: • difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products, including the loss of key employees from acquired businesses; • diversion of management’s attention from the company’s core business; • compliance with foreign regulatory requirements; • enforcement of new intellectual property rights; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • operating inefficiencies and negative impact on profitability; • entering markets or product categories in which the company has limited or no prior experience; • general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by United States companies in particular; and • undisclosed liabilities that may become the company’s responsibility. The company’s failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business or strategic alliance could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to identify suitable candidates or consummate acquisitions or strategic alliances on favorable terms, which could materially affect the growth of the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. If the company is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, specifically its trademarks, its ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The market for the company’s products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with its trademarks and brand names, including “Alberto VO5,” “St. Ives,” “TRESemmé” and “Nexxus.” The company owns the trademarks and brand name rights used in connection with marketing and distribution of its major products both in the United States and in other countries. Although most of the company’s material intellectual property is registered in the United States and in certain foreign countries in which it operates, it may not be successful in asserting trademark or brand name protection. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect the company’s intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect the company’s trademarks and brand names is expected to continue to be substantial. The loss or dilution of any of its significant trademarks in any jurisdiction where the company conducts a material portion of its business could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The company’s business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. The company’s international sales are generally denominated in foreign currencies, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. Approximately 46.4% of its net sales were from international operations in fiscal year 2007. Its primary exposures are to fluctuations in exchange rates for the United States dollar versus the Swedish krona, the British pound sterling, the Canadian dollar, the Euro, the Australian dollar, the Mexican peso and the Argentine peso. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which the company and its foreign competitors sell products in the same market. Although the company occasionally hedges some exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, it cannot ensure that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents The company’s ability to conduct business in or import products from international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. Approximately 46.4% of the company’s net sales were from international operations in fiscal year 2007. The company’s ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to grow or maintain the current level of operations in its existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets. The company is also subject to political and economic risks in connection with its international operations, including: • political instability; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and • economic fluctuations in specific markets. The company cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the United States, the European Union or other countries upon the import or export of its products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in regulatory or geopolitical policies and other factors could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business in the future or may require it to modify its current business practices, which could be very costly. Product liability claims could adversely affect the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The company may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by its products. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, the company’s products contain contaminants, provide inadequate instructions regarding their use, or provide inadequate warnings concerning interactions with other substances. Product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could materially harm the company’s sales and operating results. In addition, if any of the company’s products is found to be defective, the company could be required to recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although the company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or potential product liability claims may be excluded under the terms of the policy. Environmental matters create potential liability risks. The company must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including those relating to air emissions, water discharges, the handling and disposal of liquid and solid hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. The company handles and transports hazardous substances at its plant sites. A release of such chemicals due to accident or an intentional act could result in substantial liability to governmental authorities and/or to third parties. The company has incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations and in providing physical security for its worldwide operations. If the distribution of New Alberto-Culver shares as part of the Separation does not constitute a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, then New Alberto-Culver or New Sally (pursuant to a tax allocation agreement entered into in connection with the Separation) and Alberto-Culver stockholders may be responsible for payment of significant U.S. federal income taxes. The completion of the New Alberto-Culver share distribution was conditioned upon the receipt of (i) a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service and (ii) an opinion of Sidley Austin LLP, counsel to Alberto-Culver, in each case, to the effect that the contribution of the company to New Alberto-Culver and the New Alberto-Culver share distribution will qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code and a distribution eligible for nonrecognition under Sections 355(a) and 361(c) of the Internal Revenue Code. The private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel was based, in part, on assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by, among others, Alberto-Culver, New Sally and representatives of the Lavin family stockholders (Ms. Carol L. Bernick, Chairman of the company’s Board of Directors, Mr. Leonard H. Lavin, a director of the company, and a partnership and trusts established for the benefit of specified members of the Lavin family), as requested by the Internal Revenue Service or counsel, which, if incorrect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by the Internal Revenue Service and counsel. The private letter ruling also did not address certain material legal issues that could affect its conclusions, and reserved the right of the Internal Revenue Service to raise such issues upon a subsequent audit. Opinions of counsel neither bind the Internal Revenue Service or any court, nor preclude the Internal Revenue Service from adopting a contrary position. 8 Table of Contents If the New Alberto-Culver share distribution were not to qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, New Sally, as the successor to Alberto-Culver under the Internal Revenue Code, would recognize a taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the New Alberto-Culver common stock distributed to the New Sally stockholders over New Sally’s tax basis in the New Alberto-Culver common stock. In addition, each New Sally stockholder who received New Alberto-Culver common stock in the New Alberto-Culver share distribution would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution to the extent of earnings and profits of New Sally in an amount equal to the fair market value of the New Alberto-Culver common stock received. In the event that New Sally recognizes a taxable gain in connection with the New Alberto-Culver share distribution because the New Alberto-Culver share distribution does not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the taxable gain recognized by New Sally would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New Sally. Under the Internal Revenue Code, New Sally would be primarily liable for these taxes and New Alberto-Culver would be secondarily liable. Under the terms of a tax allocation agreement between New Sally, Sally Holdings, New Alberto-Culver and Alberto-Culver, New Alberto-Culver will generally be required to indemnify New Sally against any such tax liabilities unless such failure results solely from an act of New Sally or its affiliates (including Investor), subject to specified exceptions, after the New Alberto-Culver share distribution. The distribution of New Alberto-Culver shares may be taxable to New Sally and New Alberto-Culver if there is an acquisition of 50% or more of New Alberto-Culver’s or New Sally’s outstanding common stock. Even if the New Alberto-Culver share distribution otherwise qualifies as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the distribution of New Alberto-Culver common stock to New Sally stockholders in connection with the New Alberto-Culver share distribution would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New Sally, as the successor to Alberto-Culver under the Internal Revenue Code (but not Alberto-Culver stockholders), if there is an acquisition of stock of New Alberto-Culver or New Sally as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the New Alberto-Culver share distribution and that results in an acquisition of 50% or more of New Alberto-Culver or New Sally outstanding common stock. For purposes of determining whether the distribution of New Alberto-Culver common stock to New Sally stockholders in connection with the New Alberto-Culver share distribution is disqualified as tax-free to New Sally under the rules described in the preceding paragraph, any acquisitions of the stock of New Alberto-Culver or New Sally within two years before or after the New Alberto-Culver share distribution are presumed to be part of a plan, although the parties may be able to rebut that presumption. For purposes of this test, the investment by Investor will be treated as part of such a plan or series of transactions. Under the terms of the investment agreement, Investor acquired approximately 47.55% of New Sally common stock on a fully diluted basis and 48.0% on a basic shares outstanding method (which is the percentage likely to be used for purposes of this test). Thus, a relatively minor additional change in the ownership of the New Sally common stock could trigger a significant tax liability for New Sally under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (for which New Alberto-Culver may be required to indemnify New Sally under a tax allocation agreement entered into in connection with the Separation). The process for determining whether a prohibited change in control has occurred under the rules is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. If New Alberto-Culver or New Sally does not carefully monitor its compliance with these rules, it might inadvertently cause or permit a prohibited change in the ownership of New Sally or of New Alberto-Culver to occur, thereby triggering New Alberto-Culver’s or New Sally’s respective obligations to indemnify the other pursuant to a tax allocation agreement, which would have a material adverse effect on New Alberto-Culver. New Sally will be primarily liable for these taxes, and there can be no assurance that New Alberto-Culver would be able to fulfill its obligations under the tax allocation agreement if New Alberto-Culver was determined to be responsible for these taxes thereunder. In addition, these mutual indemnity obligations could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire either party. In the event that New Sally recognizes a taxable gain in connection with the New Alberto-Culver share distribution because of an acquisition of 50% or more of New Alberto-Culver or New Sally outstanding common stock as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the New Alberto-Culver share distribution, the taxable gain recognized by New Sally would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New Sally. Under the Internal Revenue Code, New Sally would be primarily liable for these taxes and New Alberto-Culver would be secondarily liable pursuant to a tax allocation agreement. 9 Table of Contents Actions taken by the Lavin family stockholders or by Investor could adversely affect the tax-free nature of the New Alberto-Culver share distribution. Sales and/or acquisitions by the Lavin family stockholders of New Sally common stock or New Alberto-Culver common stock after completion of the Separation (or stock of Alberto-Culver before the Separation) may adversely affect the tax-free nature of the New Alberto-Culver share distribution. First, with certain exceptions, sales by the Lavin family stockholders of New Sally common stock or New Alberto-Culver common stock at any time after completion of the New Alberto-Culver share distribution might be considered evidence that the New Alberto-Culver share distribution was used principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits, particularly if the selling stockholder were found to have an intent to effect such sale at the time of the New Alberto-Culver share distribution. If the Internal Revenue Service successfully asserted that the New Alberto-Culver share distribution was used principally as such a device, the New Alberto-Culver share distribution would not qualify as a tax-free distribution, and thus would be taxable to both New Sally and the New Sally stockholders (as a result of which New Alberto-Culver would be required to indemnify New Sally to the extent required under the tax allocation agreement entered into in connection with the Separation). Second, with certain exceptions, if any of the Lavin family stockholders were to sell an amount of New Sally common stock that it received in the holding company merger (or to acquire additional shares of New Sally common stock) within the two year period following completion of the New Alberto-Culver share distribution, and that amount of stock, if added to the New Sally common stock acquired by Investor (which comprised approximately 48.0% of the New Sally common stock on a basic shares outstanding method), were to equal or exceed 50% of the outstanding common stock of New Sally, as determined under the Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations, a deemed acquisition of control of New Sally in connection with the New Alberto-Culver share distribution would be presumed. If this presumption were not successfully rebutted, New Sally would be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities and New Alberto-Culver would be required to indemnify New Sally to the extent required under the tax allocation agreement entered into in connection with the Separation, which would have a material adverse effect on New Alberto-Culver. Similar principles would apply to sales or acquisitions of Alberto-Culver stock by the Lavin family before the Separation. Similarly, acquisitions by the Investor or its affiliates of New Sally common stock after completion of the Separation may cause a deemed acquisition of control of New Sally in connection with the New Alberto-Culver share distribution. As a result of the special cash dividend and New Alberto-Culver share distribution, stockholders of Alberto-Culver may have a tax basis in their shares of New Alberto-Culver common stock and New Sally common stock that is significantly higher than the fair market value of each such share. Under the rules for taxing dividends under the Internal Revenue Code, the special cash dividend will be taxable to holders of New Sally common stock first as a dividend to the extent paid out of New Sally’s current and accumulated earnings and profits; thereafter as a tax-free return of capital that reduces a stockholder’s tax basis in its New Sally common stock to the extent of such basis; and thereafter as capital gain from the sale or exchange of the New Sally common stock. Any tax basis remaining after application of these rules will be allocated between the New Sally common stock and New Alberto-Culver common stock received in the New Alberto-Culver share distribution in proportion to the fair market value of each. The special cash dividend reduced the value of a stockholder’s shares of New Sally common stock. However, because New Sally is expected to have significant earnings and profits at the time of the special cash dividend, a substantial portion of the special cash dividend will be taxable as a dividend and to that extent have no effect on a stockholder’s tax basis in its New Sally common stock. Thus, a stockholder can expect that the decline in the value of its New Sally common stock (after giving effect to the distributions) will be greater than the amount of reduction of its tax basis, because stock basis will only be reduced by a portion, but not the entire amount, of the dividend. As a result, stockholders of Alberto-Culver who participated in the transaction may have a tax basis in their shares of New Alberto-Culver common stock and New Sally common stock that is significantly higher than the fair market value of each such stock. In particular, persons who had a tax basis in their Alberto-Culver common stock approximately equal to its trading price immediately prior to the Separation can expect this result. Stockholders who have a tax basis in their shares of New Alberto-Culver common stock and New Sally common stock that is higher than the fair market value of such stock may face adverse tax consequences. Generally, a sale of such stock will generate a capital loss. Under the Internal Revenue Code, capital losses are generally only allowable to the extent of capital gains (or, in the case of an individual, the lower of $3,000 ($1,500 in the case of a married individual filing a separate return) or the excess of such losses over such gains). In particular, a stockholder who acquired Alberto-Culver common stock at a price near its trading price immediately prior to the transaction would recognize taxable income (through the taxation of the dividend) without having recognized any economic income and might not be able to offset the taxable income because of the special rules governing losses. 10 Table of Contents In addition, a substantial amount of the special cash dividend is expected to constitute an “extraordinary dividend” under the Internal Revenue Code. Under special tax rules relating to extraordinary dividends, any loss on the sale or exchange of New Sally common stock (and possibly New Alberto-Culver common stock) held by individuals will, to the extent of the amount treated as an extraordinary dividend, be long-term capital loss (even if it would otherwise be considered short-term under the general rules), and corporate stockholders that have not held their Alberto-Culver common stock for two years prior to the announcement of the special cash dividend may be required to reduce their basis in the shares by the untaxed portion of the special cash dividend. The uncertain reporting of the special cash dividend may result in stockholders overpaying income taxes and having to file amended tax returns. As noted above, the portion of the special cash dividend that will be taxable as a dividend for U.S. federal income tax purposes is dependent on the earnings and profits of New Sally through the close of its taxable year ending September 30, 2007, which is when the special cash dividend was paid. Thus, the amount of the special cash dividend constituting a dividend for such purposes will not be known until after the close of such tax year. Nonetheless, stockholders will be required to reflect the tax consequences of the special cash dividend in their tax returns for their own taxable year that includes the date they actually receive the special cash dividend. For example, since the special cash dividend was received by an individual in calendar year 2006, the individual will be required to report the dividend in the individual’s tax return for 2006, generally due on April 16, 2007 (assuming no extension). New Sally will be required to send information returns to stockholders reporting the special cash dividend generally by January 31 of the year following payment. Copies of these information returns are also required to be filed with the Internal Revenue Service. At the time New Sally is required to file these information returns, New Sally’s earnings and profits for the relevant period will not be known and, consequently, the amount of the special cash dividend constituting a dividend for U.S. federal income tax purposes will not be known. Treasury Regulations require, in these circumstances, that the entire amount of the special cash dividend be reported by New Sally as a taxable dividend. Because it is expected that the special cash dividend will in fact exceed the earnings and profits of New Sally, the reporting required by the Treasury Regulations will result in an overstatement of the amount of the special cash dividend constituting a taxable dividend. The Internal Revenue Service has not provided clear guidance on how stockholders should file their tax returns in these circumstances. Stockholders who file their returns based on the information returns supplied by New Sally will overstate the amount of the taxable dividend, which may result in them paying significantly higher taxes than if the final actual amount of the taxable dividend were reflected on their tax returns. Stockholders who file their returns based on an estimate of the amount of the special cash dividend constituting a taxable dividend may face increased audit risk due to the discrepancy between the amount reported to them by New Sally and the amount reflected on their tax returns, and may be liable for interest and penalties if their estimate of tax resulting from the dividend understates the amount of tax ultimately determined to be due. The portion of the special cash dividend that does not constitute a dividend for tax purposes also affects a stockholder’s tax basis in its New Sally common stock (which basis will be allocated among its New Sally common stock and the New Alberto-Culver common stock received in the New Alberto-Culver share distribution). As a result, until the exact amount of the special cash dividend constituting a taxable dividend is determined, a stockholder will not know with certainty its tax basis in its New Sally common stock and New Alberto-Culver common stock. Thus, stockholders who sell their New Sally common stock or New Alberto-Culver common stock prior to this determination will face the same uncertainty with respect to the gain or loss on the sale as they do with respect to the amount constituting a taxable dividend. New Alberto-Culver expects that New Sally will provide stockholders with a determination of the portion of the special cash dividend constituting a taxable dividend as soon as practicable after its earnings and profits for the taxable year ending September 30, 2007, which is when the special cash dividend was paid, are determined. However, it is currently expected that this determination may not be made until calendar year 2008, after New Sally’s federal income tax return for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 is completed. Thus, since the special cash dividend was paid during calendar year 2006, a calendar year stockholder may need to file an amended tax return for 2006 to reflect the corrected amount of the taxable dividend, and possibly for 2007 (if, for example, such stockholder sold New Sally common stock or New Alberto-Culver common stock in 2007), after New Sally has provided stockholders with an amended information return in calendar year 2008 for the 2006 special cash dividend. Stockholders who report the full amount of the special cash dividend as a dividend must reduce their tax basis by the amount ultimately determined not to constitute a dividend whether or not they amend their originally filed return. 11 Table of Contents Under U.S. federal bankruptcy laws or comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, stockholders could be required to return all or a portion of the cash and shares received in the distributions. If New Sally was insolvent or rendered insolvent as a result of the New Alberto-Culver share distribution or the special cash dividend, or if Sally Holdings was insolvent or rendered insolvent either as a result of the incurrence of the indebtedness or the ultimate dividend/transfer of the proceeds of such indebtedness to New Sally, there is a risk that a creditor (or a creditor representative) of New Sally could bring fraudulent transfer claims to recover all or a portion of the special cash dividend and the New Alberto-Culver common stock received in the New Alberto-Culver share distribution and that the persons receiving such distributions would be required to return all or a portion of such distributions if such claims were successful. New Sally received opinions of a valuation firm with respect to its and its subsidiaries’ solvency at the time it declared the distributions and at the time the distributions were made. The company may not realize the anticipated benefits from the Separation. The success of the Separation will depend, in part, on the ability of the company to realize the anticipated benefits of the Separation. These anticipated benefits include enhanced opportunities to increase brand and product recognition as a result of increased ability of the company to engage in more aggressive marketing and advertising campaigns as a result of eliminating the difficulties arising from operating two businesses which compete with the customers and suppliers of the other business. In addition, the anticipated benefits include the potential for increased operating earnings of the consumer products business expected to result from allowing each company to focus its attention and resources on its business and customers. The company cannot ensure that these benefits will occur. During the past five fiscal years, the company experienced significant net sales and earnings growth. There can be no assurance that it will be able to achieve comparable growth in the future. The company is a holding company with no operations of its own and depends on its subsidiaries for cash. The company is a holding company and, following the Separation, does not have any assets or operations other than ownership of its subsidiaries. The company’s operations are conducted through its subsidiaries and its ability to generate cash to pay dividends is highly dependent on the earnings of, and receipt of funds from, its subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans. However, none of the company’s subsidiaries are obligated to make funds available to the company for payment of dividends. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Table of Contents 