Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, which refer to our business and operations as of December 31, 2007, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the events described herein occur, our business, financial conditions, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR POTENTIAL BUSINESS We are a recently formed company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have any operations or an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to complete a business combination. We will not generate any revenues or income (other than interest income on the proceeds of our Public Offering) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. On February 5, 2008, we entered into the Merger Agreement with Dynogen. We cannot assure you, however, that the Merger contemplated thereby will be consummated. Unlike many other blank check companies, we allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree, and you may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of your conversion rights. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination (including the Dynogen Merger), we will offer each Public Stockholder the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. We will consummate the initial business combination only if the following two conditions are met: (a) a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the Public Stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination and (b) Public Stockholders owning 30% or more of the shares sold in this offering do not vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights. Most other blank check companies have a conversion threshold of 20%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their initial business combination. Thus, because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their conversion rights, it will be easier for us to consummate an initial business combination with a target business which you may believe is not suitable for us, and you may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of your conversion rights. Under Delaware law, our dissolution requires the approval of the holders of a majority of our outstanding stock, without which we will not be able to dissolve and liquidate and distribute our assets to our Public Stockholders. We will promptly initiate procedures for our dissolution and the distribution of our assets, including the funds held in the Trust Account, to our Public Stockholders, if we do not effect a business combination by June 13, 2009. We will seek stockholder approval for our dissolution and plan for the distribution of our assets. Upon the approval by our stockholders of our dissolution and plan for the distribution of our assets, we will liquidate our assets, including the Trust Account, and after reserving amounts sufficient to cover our liabilities and obligations and the costs of dissolution and liquidation, distribute those assets solely to our Public Stockholders. However, soliciting the vote of our stockholders will require the preparation of preliminary and definitive proxy statements, which will need to be filed with, and could be subject to the review of, the SEC. This process could take up to several months. As a result, the distribution of our assets to the Public Stockholders could be subject to a considerable delay. Furthermore, we may need to postpone the stockholders meeting, re-solicit our stockholders, or amend our plan for the distribution of our assets to obtain the required stockholder approval, all of which would further delay the distribution of our assets and result in increased costs. If we are not able to obtain approval from a majority of our stockholders, we will not be able to dissolve and we will not be able to distribute funds from our Trust Account to our Public Stockholders and these funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. In that event, we will continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. We cannot assure you that our stockholders will approve our dissolution in a timely manner or will ever approve our dissolution. As a result, we cannot provide investors with assurances of a specific timeframe for our dissolution and the distribution of our assets. If our stockholders do not approve a plan of dissolution and distribution and the funds remain in the Trust Account for an indeterminate amount of time, we may be considered to be an investment company. 14 If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination, our Public Stockholders will receive less than the $8.00 per unit Public Offering price upon distribution of the Trust Account and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation will be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of our Public Offering, our general and administrative expenses and the costs of seeking a business combination after our Public Offering. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business combination. Based upon publicly available information as of the date of this filing, approximately 152 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings since August 2003 and numerous others have filed registration statements. Of these companies, only 46 companies have consummated a business combination, while 24 other companies have announced they have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination, but have not consummated such business combination. Accordingly, there are approximately 73 blank check companies with approximately $13.7 billion in trust that are seeking to carry out a business plan similar to our business plan. While some of those companies have specific industries in which they must complete a business combination, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. We may therefore be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours which will, as a result, increase demand for privately-held companies to combine with companies structured similarly to ours. Further, the fact that only 46 such companies have completed a business combination and 24 such companies have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination may be an indication that there are only a limited number of attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately-held target businesses may not be inclined to enter into business combinations with publicly held blank check companies like us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate the Dynogen Merger and, if the Merger is not consummated, that we will be able to successfully compete for another attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination by June 13, 2009. If we are unable to find a suitable target business by such time, we will be forced to liquidate. 15 If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per share liquidation price received by Public Stockholders will be less than $7.81 per share. Our placing of funds in the Trust Account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Pursuant to Delaware General Corporation Law Section 281(b), upon our dissolution we will be required to pay or make reasonable provision to pay all claims and obligations of the corporation, including all contingent, conditional, or unmatured claims. While we intend to pay those amounts from our funds not held in trust, we cannot assure you those funds will be sufficient to cover such claims and obligations. Although we are obligated to seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we do business waive any right, title, interest, or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the Trust Account for the benefit of our Public Stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will agree to such waivers, or even if they agree to such waivers that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the Trust Account, including but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility, and other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain an advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the Trust Account. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 60,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. As of the date hereof, there are 37,893,750 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the underwriters warrants) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. We will issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock to complete our proposed business combination with Dynogen, which issuance: · will significantly reduce the equity interest of current investors in our securities; · will cause a change in control, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. If the proposed Dynogen Merger is not consummated, but we issue additional shares of our capital stock in an alternative business combination, the above are still likely to occur. Additionally, the healthcare industry is capital intensive, traditionally using substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures and working capital needs. As permitted by the Merger Agreement, Dynogen has incurred $5 million of secured indebtedness and may incur up to an additional $5 million of secured indebtedness. This indebtedness or other indebtedness we incur to finance the purchase of assets or operations through the issuance of debt securities, could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination prove insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; 16 · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. Our ability to effect a business combination and to execute any potential business plan afterwards will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. It is also likely that some of our officers and directors will resign upon the consummation of a business combination. Our ability to effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. Under the Merger Agreement with Dynogen, four of our current directors will remain with us post-closing. Beyond this, the future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. In our proxy statement to our stockholders soliciting approval for the proposed Merger with Dynogen, we will, pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, nominate for election to our board of directors, Lee R. Brettman, Dynogen’s Chief Executive Officer, and four of Dynogen’s current directors. Following a business combination (with Dynogen or otherwise), we may employ other personnel following the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. If we acquire a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a business combination (as the proposed Merger with Dynogen is structured), it may be less likely that management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. If management negotiates to be retained post-business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are currently affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented to. 17 Prior to our selection of Dynogen as a potential target, none of our officers or directors had any affiliation with Dynogen, nor did Dynogen create conflicts of interest as a potential acquisition candidate with respect to any other entity with which any of our officers or directors are affiliated. However, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with other entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Further, certain of our officers and directors are currently involved in other businesses that are similar to the business activities that we intend to conduct following a business combination. Due to these existing affiliations, they have prior fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, they have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. All of our directors own shares of our common stock which will not participate in liquidation distribution and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our directors own shares of our common stock which were issued prior to our Public Offering, but have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to those shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to complete a business combination. Additionally, our officers and directors have purchased an aggregate of 1,800,000 warrants in a Private Placement. These warrants will not be exercisable or sold until the consummation of a business combination. The shares and warrants owned by these directors will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of these directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, these directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. Our officers and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the funds available to us outside of the Trust Account unless the business combination is consummated and there are sufficient funds for reimbursement after such consummation; therefore they may have a conflict of interest. Our officers and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the funds available to us outside of the Trust Account unless the business combination is consummated and there are sufficient funds for reimbursement after such consummation. The financial interest of such persons could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. It is probable that we will only be able to complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business. The gross proceeds from our Public Offering, including proceeds from the Private Placement, were $70,800,000, of which $67,330,000 was placed in trust for use in consummating a business combination. Our initial business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition or merger. Consequently, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete only a single business combination, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisition of several assets or closely related operating businesses at the same time. We currently contemplate that, following the Merger with Dynogen, the trust funds (after payment of costs and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and other indebtedness) will be used to fund the operations of the combined company and not for an additional acquisition. Accordingly, whether we consummate the contemplated Merger with Dynogen or an alternative single business combination, the prospects for our ability to effect our business strategy may be: 18 · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Furthermore, since our business combination may entail the simultaneous acquisition of several assets or operating businesses at the same time and may be with different sellers, we will need to convince such sellers to agree that the purchase of their assets or businesses is contingent upon the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. If the net proceeds of our Public Offering and interest available to us for working capital are insufficient to effect the contemplated Dynogen Merger (or, if applicable, an alternative business combination), we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Initial Stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. Upon consummation of our offering, our Initial Stockholders (including all of our officers and directors or their affiliates collectively owned 20.0% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, not including an aggregate of 1,800,000 warrants purchased in a Private Placement, which are not currently exercisable. These warrants cannot be exercised or sold until after consummation of a business combination. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, initially only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and persons who were stockholders prior to our initial public offering, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our Initial Stockholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. In addition, such stockholders and their affiliates and relatives are not prohibited from purchasing our securities in the open market. If they do, we cannot assure you that our Initial Stockholders will not have considerable influence upon the vote in connection with a business combination. 19 Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with the Public Offering and the Private Placement, we issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 10,425,000 shares of common stock. In addition, we agreed to sell to the underwriters an option to purchase up to an aggregate of 450,000 units that, if exercised, would result in the issuance of an additional 450,000 units, comprised of 450,000 shares of common stock and 450,000 warrants (assuming the option is not exercised on a cashless basis). These warrants become exercisable upon the consummation of our business combination. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination (as contemplated in connection with the Dynogen Merger), the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business, as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effect a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. The exercise of registration rights may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of certain of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our Initial Stockholders are entitled to demand that we register the resale of the shares of common stock they acquired prior to our Public Offering at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow, which, except in limited circumstances, will occur upon the expiration of one year after a business combination is completed or any time after six months from the consummation of a business combination, if the volume weighted average price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period. Furthermore, they are entitled to demand the registration of the securities underlying the 1,800,000 founder warrants at any time after the date on which the warrants are released from escrow, which, except in limited circumstances, will occur upon the expiration of six months after the completion of a business combination. If our Initial Stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock and warrants, then there will be an additional 3,956,250 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market (assuming the warrants are not exercised on a cashless basis). Additionally, in connection with the proposed Merger with Dynogen, we intend to grant certain registration rights to stockholders of Dynogen who, following the Merger, will become our affiliates and will not be able to sell their shares of our common stock without the registration of such resale or an exemption therefrom. If the Merger with Dynogen in consummated, we will endeavor to register the resale of the shares of our common stock issued to such affiliates as merger consideration. While we cannot at this time ascertain the exact number of such shares, based on the number of shares of Dynogen capital stock held by Dynogen’s stockholders as of the signing of the Merger Agreement, we anticipate registering for resale approximately 5.7 million shares of our common stock. The presence of these additional securities eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 20 The existence of our Initial Stockholders’ registration rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from trading on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future prior to a business combination. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange de-lists our securities from trading on its exchange and we are not able to list our securities on another exchange or to have them quoted on NASDAQ, our securities could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, or “pink sheets”. As a result, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, which is a federal statute, prevents or preempts the states from regulating the sale of certain securities, which are referred to as “covered securities”. Since we are listed on the American Stock Exchange, our securities are covered securities. Although the states are preempted from regulating the sale of our securities, the federal statute does allow the states to investigate companies if there is a suspicion of fraud, and if there is a finding of fraudulent activity, then the states can regulate or bar the sale of covered securities in a particular case. While we are not aware of a state having used these powers to prohibit or restrict the sale of securities issued by blank check companies generally, certain state securities regulators view blank check companies unfavorably and might use these powers, or threaten to use these powers, to hinder the sale of securities of blank check companies in their states. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time our securities are no longer listed on the American Stock Exchange or another exchange or quoted on NASDAQ and we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: 21 · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s prior written agreement to a transaction; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our activities may be restricted which, among other problems, may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. Such restrictions include: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” with specific maturity dates, or in money market funds meeting specific requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. Our directors may not be considered “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc. All of our officers or directors own shares of our common stock, and no salary or other compensation will be paid to our officers or directors for services rendered by them on our behalf prior to or in connection with a business combination. We believe that two members of our board of directors are “independent” as that term is commonly used. However, under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., because our directors may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, state securities administrators could take the position that such individuals are not “independent.” If this were the case, they would take the position that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not two of them are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our common stock. 22 Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them in dissolution, regardless of when such claims are filed. We cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from the assets distributed to our Public Stockholders any amounts owed to them by us. Under the DGCL, our stockholders could be liable for any claims against the corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in dissolution. The limitations on stockholder liability under the DGCL for claims against a dissolved corporation are determined by the procedures that a corporation follows for distribution of its assets following dissolution. If we complied with the procedures set forth in Sections 280 and 281(a) of the DGCL (which would include, among other things, a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against us, a 90-day period during which we may reject any claims brought, an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, as well as review by the Delaware Court of Chancery) our stockholders would have no further liability with respect to claims on which an action, suit or proceeding is begun after the third anniversary of our dissolution. However, in accordance with our intention to liquidate and distribute our assets to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution, our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that we will comply with Section 281(b) of the DGCL instead of Sections 280 and 281(a). Accordingly, our stockholders’ liability could extend to claims for which an action, suit or proceeding is begun after the third anniversary of our dissolution. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we will be forced to dissolve and liquidate. We must complete a business combination with one or more operating businesses with a collective fair market value equal to at least 80% of our net assets (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $2,070,000) by June 13, 2009. If we fail to complete a business combination within the required time frame we will promptly initiate procedures to dissolve and liquidate our assets. We may not be able to close the proposed Merger with Dynogen or find a suitable alternative target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. 23 RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY Whether we acquire domestic or international assets or operations, of which no assurances can be given, our proposed business will be subject to numerous risks, including the following: If we are unable to comply with governmental regulations affecting the healthcare industry, it could negatively affect our operations. There is extensive government regulation of many healthcare businesses as well as various proposals at the federal government level to reform the healthcare system. Changes to the existing regulatory framework and/or implementation of various reform initiatives could adversely affect certain sectors of the healthcare industry. If we are unable to adhere to these requirements, it could result in the imposition of penalties and fines against us, and could also result in the imposition of restrictions on our business and operations. For a more complete discussion of the government regulations applicable to the healthcare industry, please see the section entitled “Proposed Business—Government Regulations” below. If we are required to obtain governmental approval of our products following a business combination (as in the case of a Merger with Dynogen), the production of our products could be delayed and we could be required to engage in a lengthy and expensive approval process that may not ultimately be successful. Unanticipated problems may arise in connection with the development of new products or technologies, and many such efforts may ultimately be unsuccessful. In addition, testing or marketing products may require obtaining government approvals, which may be a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome. Delays in commercializing products may result in the need to seek additional capital, potentially diluting the interest of investors. These various factors may result in abrupt advances and declines in the securities prices of particular companies in the healthcare industry and, in some cases, may have broad effect on the prices of securities of specific healthcare companies or of companies in the healthcare industry generally. The healthcare industry is susceptible to significant liability exposure, especially product liability claims. If liability claims are brought against us following a business combination, it could materially adversely affect our operations. Any target business we acquire in the healthcare industry will be exposed to potential liability risks (especially product liability risks) that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of healthcare products and/or the provisions of healthcare services. Product liability claims could delay or prevent completion of development programs, result in a recall of products or change in indications, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or market prices of our securities. Any liability claim brought against us following a business combination, with or without merit, could result in: · liabilities that substantially exceed our liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available; · an increase of our liability insurance rates or the inability to maintain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or at all; · withdrawal of patients enrolled in our clinical trials, if any; · damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products or services, resulting in lower sales; 24 · regulatory investigations that could require costly product recalls or modifications; · litigation costs; and · the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. Additionally, liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. Although we currently maintain directors' and officers' liability insurance, as a result of increasing costs, we may be unable to continue to maintain this coverage or to obtain other sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our inability to maintain or obtain liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products or services. If we are unable to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to our technologies and products or services following a business combination, the value of our technology, products or services may be decreased and our revenues may be likewise decreased. Intellectual property rights in the fields of biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, diagnostics and medical devise is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions. At the same time, the profitability of companies in these fields generally depends on sustained competitive advantages and differentiation that are based on intellectual property. Our success following a business combination (including a business combination with Dynogen) will depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into our technology products or services. We may not be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology, products or services. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or services, limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products or services, and expose us to substantial litigation costs and drain our resources. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretation of patent laws in the Untied States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. If our prospective business infringes on the rights of third parties, we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages, and may have to defend against litigation. In the event that the products, methods, processes or other technologies of our prospective business are claimed to infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and may be required to: · obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · abandon an infringing product, process or technology; · redesign our products, processes or technologies to avoid infringement; · stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; · defend litigation or administrative proceedings; or · pay damages. Our investments in healthcare-related companies may be extremely risky and we could lose all or part of our investments. 25 An investment in healthcare-related companies (including Dynogen) may be extremely risky relative to an investment in companies operating in other sectors due, in part, to the following factors: · early stage healthcare companies typically have limited operating histories, narrow research and development capabilities, narrow potential product lines, are usually focused exclusively on development of potential products and technologies, and, like Dynogen, most have not yet reached the stage of product commercialization; · to the extent that early stage healthcare companies are actually commercializing products, they generally have smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions; · early stage healthcare companies generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with product candidates subject to a substantial risk of failure, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; · because many smaller healthcare companies tend to be privately owned, there is generally little publicly available information about these businesses; therefore, we may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these businesses; and · many small healthcare companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the operations of any healthcare-related company we may acquire. Changes in the healthcare industry are subject to various influences, each of which may affect our prospective business. The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic, and regulatory influences. These factors affect the purchasing practices and operations of healthcare organizations. Any changes in current healthcare financing and reimbursement systems could cause us to make unplanned enhancements of our prospective products, or result in delays or cancellations of orders, or in the revocation of endorsement of our prospective products by clients. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the federal and state level. Such programs may increase governmental regulation or involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates, or otherwise change the environment in which healthcare industry participants operate. Healthcare industry participants may respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our prospective products. Many healthcare industry participants are consolidating to create integrated healthcare systems with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products to industry participants may become even more intense, as will the importance of establishing a relationship with each industry participant. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our prospective products. If we were forced to reduce our prices, our operating results could suffer if we could not achieve corresponding reductions in our expenses. Any business we acquire will be subject to extensive government regulation. Any business changes to the laws and regulations governing our prospective business, or the interpretation and enforcement of those laws or regulations, could cause us to modify our operations and could negatively impact our operating results. 26 Our prospective business will be extensively regulated by the federal government and any states in which we decide to operate. The laws and regulations governing our operations, if any, are generally intended to benefit and protect persons other than our stockholders. The government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. These laws and regulations along with the terms of any government contracts we may enter into would regulate how we do business, what products we could offer, and how we would interact with the public. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations could reduce our revenue, if any, by: · imposing additional research requirements, thereby delaying the launch of potential new products and increasing expenses; · increasing our liability; · increasing our administrative and other costs; · increasing or decreasing mandated benefits; · forcing us to restructure our relationships with providers or partners; or · requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. An example of recently enacted and far-reaching legislation is the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, which will have very significant effects in greatly increasing the level of federal expenditures for prescription drugs. The new legislation alters the nature and degree of reimbursement for drugs. Any analogous requirements applied to our prospective products would be costly to implement and could affect our prospective revenues. The current administration’s issuance of new regulations, its enforcement of the existing laws and regulations, the states’ ability to promulgate stricter rules, and uncertainty regarding many aspects of the regulations may make compliance with any new regulatory landscape difficult. In order to comply with any new regulatory requirements, any prospective business we acquire may be required to employ additional or different programs and systems, the costs of which are unknown to us at this time. Further, compliance with any such new regulations may lead to additional costs that we have not yet identified. We do not know whether, or the extent to which, we would be able to recover our costs of complying with any new regulations. Any new regulations and the related compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to attract qualified healthcare professionals at reasonable costs, it could limit our ability to grow, increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business. We may rely significantly on our ability to attract and retain qualified healthcare professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the certification requirements and the requirements of applicable state and federal governing bodies. We will compete for qualified healthcare professionals with other healthcare organizations, universities, hospitals and government organizations. 27 Our ability to attract and retain such qualified healthcare professionals will depend on several factors, including our ability to provide attractive assignments and competitive benefits and wages. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in any of these areas. We may be dependent on payments from Medicare and Medicaid. Changes in the rates of methods governing these payments for our prospective products, or delays in such payments, could adversely affect our prospective revenue. Any reductions in amounts paid by government programs for our prospective products or changes in methods or regulations governing payments would adversely affect our potential revenue. Additionally, delays in any such payments, whether as a result of disputes or for any other reason, would also adversely affect our potential revenue. If our costs were to increase more rapidly than payment adjustments we receive from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors for any of our potential products, our revenue could be negatively impacted. Accordingly, our revenue may be largely dependent on our ability to manage costs of providing such products. We may depend on payments from third-party payors, including managed care organizations. If these payments are reduced, eliminated or delayed, our prospective revenues could be adversely affected. We may be dependent upon private sources of payment for any of our potential products or research services. Any amounts that we may receive in payment for such products or services may be adversely affected by market and cost factors as well as other factors over which we have no control, including regulations and cost containment and utilization decisions and reduced reimbursement schedules of third-party payors. Any reductions in such payments, to the extent that we could not recoup them elsewhere, would have a material adverse effect on our prospective business and results of operations. Additionally, delays in any such payments, whether as a result of disputes or for any other reason, would have a material adverse effect on our prospective business and results of operations. If the FDA or other state or foreign agencies impose regulations that affect our potential products, our costs will increase. The development, testing, production and marketing of any of our potential products that we may manufacture, market or sell following a business combination (including Dynogen’s products following consummation of the proposed Merger) may be subject to regulation by the FDA as “drugs.” All “new drugs” must be the subject of an FDA-approved new drug application (NDA) and all new biologics products must be the subject of a biologics license application (BLA) before they may be marketed in the United States. All generic equivalents to previously approved drugs or new dosage forms of existing drugs must be the subject of an FDA-approved abbreviated new drug application (ANDA) before they may be marketed in the United States. In all cases, the FDA has the authority to determine what testing procedures are appropriate for a particular product and, in some instances, has not published or otherwise identified guidelines as to the appropriate procedures. The required product testing and approval process for new drugs and biologics ordinarily takes several years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Testing of any product under development may not result in a commercially viable product. Even after such time and expenses, regulatory approval by the FDA may not be obtained for any products developed. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product, its manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. Subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. 28 Even if required FDA approval has been obtained with respect to a new drug or biologic product, foreign regulatory approval of a product must also be obtained prior to marketing the product internationally. Foreign approval procedures vary from country to country and the time required for approval may delay or prevent marketing. Although there is now a centralized European Union approval mechanism for new pharmaceutical products in place, each European Union member state may nonetheless impose its own procedures and requirements, many of which are time consuming and expensive, and some European Union member states require price approval as part of the regulatory approval process. Thus, there can be substantial delays in obtaining required approval from both the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. The regulatory requirements applicable to any new drug or biologic product may be modified in the future. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations or statutes or legal interpretations may have on a product in the future. Any changes or new legislation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell new drug and biologics products and, therefore, our ability to generate revenue and cash flow from them. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. The FDA can impose civil and criminal enforcement actions and other penalties on us if we were to fail to comply with stringent FDA regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: · warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; · repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; · operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; · refusal of requests for approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; · withdrawal of market approvals previously granted; and · criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, it could harm our business. Medical manufacturing facilities must maintain records, which are available for FDA inspectors documenting that the appropriate manufacturing procedures were followed. Should we acquire such a facility as a result of a business combination, the FDA would have authority to conduct inspections of such a facility. Labeling and promotional activities are also subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain instances, by the Federal Trade Commission. Any failure by us to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse inspection or to comply with applicable FDA regulations could result in enforcement action against us, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of manufacturing operations, a recall of our products, civil or criminal penalties or other sanctions. From time to time, the FDA may modify such requirements, imposing additional or different requirements that could require us to alter our business. 29 RISKS RELATED TO THE POTENTIAL MERGER The combined company’s working capital could be reduced and, following the Merger, our stockholders could own less than 40% of our outstanding common stock. Pursuant to our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, holders of shares issued in our Public Offering may vote against the proposed Merger with Dynogen and demand that we convert their shares into a pro rata share of the amount held in the Trust Account (including the amount held in the trust account representing the deferred portion of the underwriters’ fee), inclusive of any interest earned on such pro rata share (net of taxes payable). We will not complete the Merger if holders of 30% or more of the shares of common stock issued in our Public Offering vote against the Merger and exercise these conversion rights. To the extent the Merger is completed and holders of less than 30% of the shares of our common stock issued in the Public Offering have properly demanded to convert their shares, there will be a corresponding reduction in the amount of funds available to the combined company following the Merger and a reduction in the aggregate percentage of our outstanding shares that is owned after the Merger by our stockholders immediately prior to the Merger. As of February 29, 2008, assuming the Merger proposal is approved, the maximum amount of funds that could be disbursed to our stockholders upon the exercise of the conversion rights (excluding deductions for tax payments) without implicating the ability to complete the Merger will be approximately $20.4 million, or approximately 29.99% of the funds currently held in trust. If the maximum amount of funds were disbursed, the percentage of our outstanding common stock that would be owned by our existing stockholders who did not exercise their conversion right would be approximately 37.8%, based on the relative numbers of shares outstanding of our common stock and Dynogen common stock and other securities as of February 5, 2008. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, a substantial number of shares will be issued upon, and will be potentially issuable after, the consummation of the Merger, which will result in significant dilution to our stockholders immediately prior to the Merger. As of February 5, 2008, 10,781,250 shares of our common stock were outstanding. Upon the consummation of the Merger, we will issue approximately 13.5 million shares, and reserve for issuance approximately 7.4 million additional shares of our common stock for future issuance upon the satisfaction of certain milestones and the exercise of options and warrants assumed or issued in connection with the Merger. Assuming that, prior to the consummation of the Merger, no additional shares of our common stock are issued and none of our stockholders exercise their conversion rights and that none of our or Dynogen’s outstanding options or warrants are exercised, upon such consummation, our stockholders immediately prior to the Merger are expected to own approximately 44.4% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock (or approximately 43.7% on a fully-diluted basis giving effect to all outstanding options, warrants and other rights, including the milestone payments); however, if 29.99% of our stockholders exercise their conversion rights, we expect our stockholders to hold approximately 37.8% of the shares of our common stock outstanding immediately following the closing of the Merger (or approximately 40.5% on a fully-diluted basis giving effect to all outstanding options, warrants and other rights, including the milestone payments). A substantial number of our shares will become eligible for future resale in the public market after the Merger which could result in dilution and have an adverse effect on the market price of those shares. If the Merger is completed, warrants to purchase 8,625,000 shares of common stock issued in connection with our Public Offering and warrants to purchase 1,800,000 shares of our common stock issued in a Private Placement to certain of our founding stockholders immediately prior to our Public Offering will become exercisable on the date the Merger is completed. Additionally, if the Merger is completed, it is currently estimated that approximately 20.9 million shares of our common stock will be issued, or reserved for future issuance, to the holders of Dynogen capital stock, option, warrants or other securities at the closing of the Merger. 30 Substantially all of these shares will be eligible for resale upon issuance, subject to limitations under applicable securities laws. Additionally, if the Merger is completed, we expect to register for resale the shares issued to those former stockholders of Dynogen who will become our affiliates and would not otherwise be able to sell without an exemption from registration. In addition, our Initial Stockholders have the right to require us to file a registration statement covering the resale of certain shares of our common stock, warrants and shares of our common stock underlying such warrants held by such persons. Consequently, at various times after completion of the Merger, a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock will be eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of such shares and of the warrants. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the shares of our common stock held by our Initial Stockholders are subject to escrow agreements and will not be released from escrow until the earliest of (a) with respect to certain shares of our common stock, the first year anniversary of our initial business combination, and with respect to certain warrants to purchase our common stock, the six month anniversary of our initial business combination, (b) our liquidation (in which case they will have no value) and (c) the consummation of a liquidation, merger, stock exchange or other similar transaction which results in all of our stockholders having the right to exchange their shares of common stock for cash, securities or other property subsequent our initial business combination, if any, with a target business. Additionally, because we are a blank check company, so long as they continue to be affiliates, our Initial Stockholders will not be able to sell our securities pursuant to Rule 144. Our directors and executive officers have interests in the Merger that are different from yours because if the Merger is not approved then the shares held by them may become worthless. In considering the recommendation of our board of directors to vote for the proposal to approve the Merger Agreement, you should be aware that a number of our officers and directors have interests in the Merger that are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a stockholder. These interests include, among other things: · If the Merger is not approved and we are therefore required to dissolve and liquidate, the shares of common stock purchased prior to our Public Offering and held by our officers and directors (or their affiliates) will be worthless because our directors and officers are not entitled to receive in respect of such shares any of the net proceeds of our Public Offering that may be distributed from our Trust Account upon our liquidation. If the Merger is not approved and we are therefore required to dissolve and liquidate, such officers and directors will, however, be entitled to receive their share of the net proceeds of our Public Offering that may be distributed from our Trust Account with respect to any shares of our common stock purchased in or following our Public Offering. In addition, the warrants held by such persons for which they paid an aggregate of $1,800,000, which will be exercisable at the completion of the Merger for 1,800,000 shares of our common stock, will expire without value in the event that we are required to liquidate. · If the Merger is not approved and we are therefore required to dissolve and liquidate, our Initial Stockholders have each agreed on a joint and several basis to be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds from our Public Offering held in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of (a) vendors or other entities for services rendered or products sold to us or (b) any prospective target business, in each case only to the extent the payment of such debts and obligations actually reduces the amount of funds in the Trust Account (or, in the event that such claim arises after the distribution of the Trust Account, to the extent necessary to ensure that our Public Stockholders are not liable for any amount of such loss, liability, claim, damage or expense) and only with respect to vendors, prospective target business and other entities we engage who do not waive their right or claim in or to the monies held in the Trust Account. If the Merger is completed, these indemnification obligations will terminate. 31 · Certain of our existing directors anticipate remaining on the board of directors after the consummation of the Merger, which may result in the surviving corporation paying a fee to them for their services. The amount of stock held by executive officers, directors and other affiliates following the Merger may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Upon consummation of the Merger with Dynogen, our officers, directors and affiliates will beneficially own approximately 10% of our common stock. These stockholders can have a substantial influence on all matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of the combined company, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. The lack of diversification in our business following the Merger affects our ability to mitigate the risks that we may face or to offset possible losses that we may incur as a result of competing in the biotechnology industry. The prospects for our success will be entirely dependent upon the future performance of Dynogen’s business. We may not have the resources to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the biotechnology industry and result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of Dynogen’s products. The combined company may form joint ventures that could harm its operating results, dilute your ownership of the combined company, increase its debt or cause it to incur significant expense. As part of the combined company’s business strategy, it may pursue strategic alliances that leverage its core technology and industry experience to expand its product offerings or distribution. To effect these strategic alliances, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock, which would dilute your interest in us. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds for working capital through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, and to the extent such funds are available, such financing may include restrictive covenants that could hinder our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary. Following the Merger with Dynogen, we will incur significant increased costs, and our financial controls and procedures may not be sufficient to ensure timely and reliable reporting of financial information, which, as a public company, could materially harm our stock price and listing on the American Stock Exchange. 32 Following the Merger, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. Dynogen has not incurred these expenses as a private company, and, because of our lack of an operating business, to date, we have incurred these expenses only to a limited extent. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and rules of the SEC, and the American Stock Exchange have imposed various requirements on public companies including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls. Following the Merger, our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain and maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, beginning with the annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures may in the future be limited by a variety of factors, including: · faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions or mistakes; · fraudulent action of an individual or collusion of two or more people; · inappropriate management override of procedures; and · the possibility that any enhancements to controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate financial information. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we may be subject to delisting from any exchange on which our securities are then traded, SEC investigation and civil or criminal sanctions. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with Section 404 requires us to be able to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new operational and financial and accounting systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls may cause our operations to suffer, and we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our auditors as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to complete the required Section 404 assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, if we fail to maintain or implement adequate controls, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the date of our first Form 10-K for which compliance is required, our ability to obtain additional financing could be impaired. In addition, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting and in the accuracy of our periodic reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. A lack of investor confidence in the reliability and accuracy of our public reporting could cause our stock price to decline. 33 Following the Merger, our management will have broad discretion to use available cash and the investment of these resources may not yield a favorable return. We may invest the available cash in ways you disagree with. Our management will have broad discretion as to how to spend and invest the cash that will be available to us upon completion of the Merger and distribution from the trust fund, and we may spend or invest these capital resources in a way with which you may disagree. Because we are not required to allocate cash to any specific investment or transaction, you cannot determine at this time the value or propriety of our application of these resources. Accordingly, you will need to rely on our post-Merger management’s judgment with respect to the use of this cash. Moreover, you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial or other information on which we base our decision on how to use this cash. Pending use, we plan to invest available cash in short-term, investment-grade, interest bearing securities. These investments may not yield a favorable return to stockholders. Neither we nor Dynogen has ever declared or paid dividends on its capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment. Following the Merger, Dynogen’s business will require significant funding, and we currently plan to invest all available funds and future earnings in the development and growth of this business. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of the common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends, including pursuant to the terms of debt agreements. Our ability to utilize Dynogen’s historical, federal and state net operating loss carryforwards may currently be limited or may become limited. As of December 31, 2007, Dynogen had net operating loss carryforwards for federal and state income tax purposes of $63 million and $48 million, respectively. If not utilized, these carryforwards will expire at various dates starting in 2008 through 2027. Generally, utilization of a company’s net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to substantial annual limitations due to rules contained in the Internal Revenue Code (and similar state provisions) that are applicable if the company experiences an “ownership change.” Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a company’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for United States federal income tax purposes. Additionally, even if there were no ownership changes previously, it is possible that the Merger, when considered together with past transactions and potential future transactions, could trigger an ownership change for this purpose. As a result, our ability to use Dynogen’s net operating loss carryforwards may be or become subject to substantial limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability and in the expiration of Dynogen’s net operating loss carryforwards before they can be used. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 34 Item 