Item 1A. Risk Factors. We rely heavily on sales to the U.S. government, particularly to agencies of the Department of Defense. Historically, a significant portion of our total sales and substantially all of our small UAS sales have been to the U.S. government and its agencies. Sales to the U.S. government, either as a prime contractor or subcontractor, represented approximately 84% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2008. The DoD, our principal U.S. government customer, accounted for approximately 80% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2008. We believe that the success and growth of our business for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to win government contracts, in particular from the DoD. Many of our government customers are subject to budgetary constraints and our continued performance under these contracts, or award of additional contracts from these agencies, could be jeopardized by spending reductions or budget cutbacks at these agencies. The funding of U.S. government programs is uncertain and dependent on continued congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds based on an annual budgeting process. We cannot assure you that current levels of congressional funding for our products and services will continue. Furthermore, all of our contracts with the U.S. government are terminable by the U.S. government at will. A significant decline in government expenditures generally, or with respect to programs for which we provide products, could adversely affect our business and prospects. Our operating results may also be negatively impacted by other developments that affect these government programs generally, including the following: •changes in government programs that are related to our products and services; •adoption of new laws or regulations relating to government contracting or changes to existing laws or regulations; •changes in political or public support for security and defense programs; •delays or changes in the government appropriations process; •uncertainties associated with the war on terror and other geo-political matters; and •delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. These developments and other factors could cause governmental agencies to reduce their purchases under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts at-will or to abstain from renewing contracts, any of which would cause our revenue to decline and could otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Military transformation and operational levels in Afghanistan and Iraq may affect future procurement priorities and existing programs, which could limit demand for our UAS. Following the end of the Cold War, the U.S. military began a transformation of its operational concepts, organizational structure and technologies in an effort to improve warfighting capabilities. The resulting shift in procurement priorities toward achieving these capabilities, together with the current high level of operational activity in Afghanistan and Iraq, have led to an increase in demand for our 19 small UAS. We cannot predict whether current or future changes in priorities due to defense transformation or continuation of the current nature and magnitude of operations in Afghanistan and Iraq will afford new opportunities for our small UAS business in terms of existing, additional or replacement programs. Furthermore, we cannot predict whether or to what extent this defense transformation or current operational levels in Afghanistan or Iraq will continue. If defense transformation or operations in Afghanistan and Iraq cease or slow down, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be impacted. We operate in evolving markets, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. UAS, fast charge systems and other energy technologies that we offer are sold in new and rapidly evolving markets. Accordingly, our business and future prospects are difficult to evaluate. We cannot accurately predict the extent to which demand for our products will increase, if at all. The challenges, risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in rapidly evolving markets could impact our ability to do the following: •generate sufficient revenue to maintain profitability; •acquire and maintain market share; •manage growth in our operations; •develop and renew contracts; •attract and retain additional engineers and other highly-qualified personnel; •successfully develop and commercially market new products; •adapt to new or changing policies and spending priorities of governments and government agencies; and •access additional capital when required and on reasonable terms. If we fail to address these and other challenges, risks and uncertainties successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially harmed. We face competition from other firms, many of which have substantially greater resources. The defense industry is highly competitive and generally characterized by intense competition to win contracts. Our current principal small UAS competitors include Elbit Systems Ltd., L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. and Lockheed Martin Corporation. We do not view large UAS such as Northrop Grumman Corporation's Global Hawk, General Atomics, Inc.'s Predator, The Boeing Company's ScanEagle and AAI Corporation's Shadow as direct competitors because they perform different missions and are not hand launched and controlled, although we cannot be certain that these platforms will not become direct competitors in the future. Some of these firms have substantially greater financial, management, research and marketing resources than we have. The primary direct competitors to our PosiCharge business are other fast charge suppliers, including Aker Wade Power Technologies LLC and PowerDesigners, LLC, as well as industrial battery manufacturers who distribute fast charge systems from these suppliers. Our competitors may be able to provide customers with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide in areas such as technical qualifications, past contract performance, geographic presence, price and the availability of key professional personnel, including those with security clearances. Furthermore, many of our competitors may be able to utilize their substantially greater resources and economies of scale to develop competing products and technologies, divert sales away from us by winning broader contracts or hire away our employees by offering more lucrative compensation packages. In the event that the market for small UAS, expands, we expect that competition will intensify as additional competitors enter the market and current 20 competitors expand their product lines. In order to secure contracts successfully when competing with larger, well-financed companies, we may be forced to agree to contractual terms that provide for lower aggregate payments to us over the life of the contract, which could adversely affect our margins. In addition, larger diversified competitors serving as prime contractors may be able to supply underlying products and services from affiliated entities, which would prevent us from competing for subcontracting opportunities on these contracts. Our failure to compete effectively with respect to any of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. If the UAS and fast charge systems markets do not experience significant growth, if we cannot expand our customer base or if our products do not achieve broad acceptance, then we will not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2008, UAS and PosiCharge fast charge systems accounted for 86% and 9% of our total revenue, respectively. We cannot accurately predict the future growth rates or sizes of these markets. Demand for our products may not increase, or may decrease, either generally or in specific markets, for particular types of products or during particular time periods. We believe the market for fast charge systems is young and has not yet matured or diversified. Moreover, there are only a limited number of major programs under which the U.S. military, our primary customer, is currently funding the development or purchase of UAS. Although we are seeking to expand our customer base to include foreign governments, domestic non-military agencies and commercial customers, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful. The expansion of the UAS and fast charge systems markets in general, and the market for our products in particular, depends on a number of factors, including the following: •customer satisfaction with these types of systems as solutions; •the cost, performance and reliability of our products and products offered by our competitors; •customer perceptions regarding the effectiveness and value of these types of systems; •limitations on our ability to market our small UAS products outside the United States due to U.S. government regulations; •obtaining timely regulatory approvals, including, with respect to our small UAS business, access to airspace and wireless spectrum; and •marketing efforts and publicity regarding these types of systems. Even if UAS and fast charge systems gain wide market acceptance, our products may not adequately address market requirements and may not continue to gain market acceptance. If these types of systems generally, or our products specifically, do not gain wide market acceptance, then we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our revenue and results of operations would suffer. If critical components of our products that we currently purchase from a small number of suppliers or raw materials used to manufacture our products become scarce or unavailable, then we may incur delays in manufacturing and delivery of our products, which could damage our business. We obtain hardware components and various subsystems from a limited group of suppliers. We do not have long-term agreements with any of these suppliers that obligate them to continue to sell components or products to us. For example, L-3 Communications Holdings, which is one of our competitors, and Rockwell Collins, are currently the sole supplier of our downlink transmitters/receivers and GPS modules, respectively, of several of our small UAS provides, including Raven. We also have several sole suppliers of PosiCharge fast charge systems components and subsystems. Our reliance on 21 these suppliers involves significant risks and uncertainties, including whether our suppliers will provide an adequate supply of required components of sufficient quality, will increase prices for the components and will perform their obligations on a timely basis. In addition, certain raw materials and components used in the manufacture of our products are periodically subject to supply shortages, and our business is subject to the risk of price increases and periodic delays in delivery. For example, the airframes for our small UAS are made from certain nylon composites, which experienced restrictions in available supply in 2005 due to increased worldwide demand. Similarly, the market for electronic components is subject to cyclical reductions in supply. If we are unable to obtain components from third-party suppliers in the quantities and of the quality that we require, on a timely basis and at acceptable prices, then we may not be able to deliver our products on a timely or cost-effective basis to our customers, which could cause customers to terminate their contracts with us, increase our costs and seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, if any of our suppliers become financially unstable, then we may have to find new suppliers. It may take several months to locate alternative suppliers, if required, or to redesign our products to accommodate components from different suppliers. We may experience significant delays in manufacturing and shipping our products to customers and incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply if we lose any of these sources or are required to redesign our products. We cannot predict if we will be able to obtain replacement components within the time frames that we require at an affordable cost, if at all. Any efforts to expand our product offerings beyond our current markets may not succeed, which could negatively impact our operating results. We have focused on selling our small UAS to the U.S. military and our fast charge systems to large industrial electric vehicle fleet operators primarily in North America. We plan, however, to seek to expand our UAS sales into other government and commercial markets and our fast charge systems sales into international markets. Efforts to expand our product offerings beyond the markets that we currently serve may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to unproven businesses that may not generate additional sales, either of which could significantly impair our operating results. Our failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals from the FAA or other appropriate governmental agency may prevent us from expanding the sales of our small UAS to non-military customers in the United States and require us to incur additional costs in the testing of our products. In 2006, the FAA issued a clarification of its existing policies stating that, in order to engage in public use of small UAS in the U.S. National Airspace System, a public (government) operator must obtain a Certificate of Authorization, or COA, from the FAA or fly in restricted airspace. The FAA's COA approval process requires that the public operator certify the airworthiness of the aircraft for its intended purpose, that a collision with another aircraft or other airspace user is extremely improbable, that the small UAS complies with appropriate cloud and terrain clearances and that the operator or spotter of the small UAS is generally within one half-mile laterally and 400 feet vertically of the small UAS while in operation. Furthermore, the FAA's clarification of existing policy states that the rules for radio-controlled hobby aircraft do not apply to public or commercial use of small UAS. The FAA is in the process of drafting updated regulations specifically for small UAS operations, but we cannot assure you that these regulations will allow the use of our small UAS by potential non-military government and commercial customers. If the FAA does not modify its regulations, we may not be able to expand our sales of UAS beyond our military customers, which could harm our business prospects. In addition, if our DoD customers are unable to obtain COAs, we may not be able to perform our flight tests without incurring the additional costs of transporting our small UAS products to military installations, when restricted airspace is available for testing, which could impair our operating results. 22 The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change, which requires us to develop new products and product enhancements, and could render our existing products obsolete. Continuing technological changes in the market for our products could make our products less competitive or obsolete, either generally or for particular applications. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce a variety of new capabilities and enhancements to our existing product offerings, as well as introduce a variety of new product offerings, to address the changing needs of the markets in which we offer our products. Delays in introducing new products and enhancements, the failure to choose correctly among technical alternatives or the failure to offer innovative products or enhancements at competitive prices may cause existing and potential customers to purchase our competitors' products. If we are unable to devote adequate resources to develop new products or cannot otherwise successfully develop new products or enhancements that meet customer requirements on a timely basis, our products could lose market share, our revenue and profits could decline, and we could experience operating losses. We expect to incur substantial research and development costs and devote significant resources to identifying and commercializing new products, which could significantly reduce our profitability and may never result in revenue to us. Our future growth depends on penetrating new markets, adapting existing products to new applications, and introducing new products that achieve market acceptance. We plan to incur substantial research and development costs as part of our efforts to design, develop and commercialize new products and enhance existing products. We spent $16.4 million, or 8% of our revenue, in our fiscal year ended April 30, 2008 on research and development activities and expect to continue to spend significant funds on research and development in the future. Because we account for research and development as an operating expense, these expenditures will adversely affect our earnings in the future. Further, our research and development program may not produce successful results, and our new products may not achieve market acceptance, create additional revenue or become profitable, which could materially harm our business, prospects, financial results and liquidity. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. Our headcount and operations have grown rapidly. This rapid growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. From January 2004 through April 2008, we more than doubled the number of our employees. We anticipate further growth of headcount and facilities will be required to address increases in our product offerings and the geographic scope of our customer base. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage this growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to hire, train, manage and integrate a significant number of qualified managers and engineers. If our new employees perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or retaining these or our existing employees, then our business may suffer. For us to continue our growth, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management information systems. If we are unable to manage our growth while maintaining our quality of service, or if new systems that we implement to assist in managing our growth do not produce the expected benefits, then our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. 23 Our earnings and profit margins may decrease based on the mix of our contracts and programs and other factors related to our contracts. In general, we perform our production work under fixed-price contracts and our repair and customer-funded research and development work under cost-plus-fee contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we perform services under a contract at a stipulated price. Under cost-plus-fee contracts, which are subject to a contract ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. We typically experience lower profit margins under cost-plus-fee contracts than under fixed-price contracts, though fixed-price contracts have higher risks. In general, if the volume of services we perform under cost-plus-fee contracts increases relative to the volume of services we perform under fixed-price contracts, we expect that our operating margin will suffer. In addition, our earnings and margins may decrease depending on the costs we incur in contract performance, our achievement of other contract performance objectives and the stage of our performance at which our right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Our senior management and key employees are important to our customer relationships and overall business. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued contributions of our senior management and key employees. We rely on our executive officers, senior management and key employees to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that members of our management team and key employees have established and maintain with government defense personnel contribute to our ability to maintain good customer relations and to identify new business opportunities. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers or key employees, and these individuals could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of any of our executive officers, members of our senior management team or key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and could materially harm our business and customer relationships and impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts and otherwise manage our business. We must recruit and retain highly-skilled employees to succeed in our competitive business. We depend on our ability to recruit and retain employees who have advanced engineering and technical services skills and who work well with our customers. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, then our ability to maintain our competitiveness and grow our business could be negatively affected. In addition, because of the highly technical nature of our products, the loss of any significant number of our existing engineering personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Moreover, some of our U.S. government contracts contain provisions requiring us to staff a program with certain personnel the customer considers key to our successful performance under the contract. In the event we are unable to provide these key personnel or acceptable substitutes, the customer may terminate the contract. Our business may be dependent upon our employees obtaining and maintaining required security clearances. Certain of our U.S. government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances, and we are required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with DoD requirements. The DoD has strict security clearance requirements for personnel who work on classified programs. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain security clearances in a timely manner, or at all, or if our employees who hold security clearances are unable to maintain the clearances or terminate employment with us, then a customer requiring classified work could terminate the contract or decide not to renew 24 it upon its expiration. In addition, we expect that many of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and employ personnel with specified types of security clearances. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively rebid on expiring contracts. Cost overruns on our contracts could subject us to losses, decrease our operating margins and adversely affect our future business. Fixed-price contracts represented approximately 59% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2008. If we fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during our performance of fixed-price contracts, then we may incur losses on these contracts because we absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. Under cost-plus-fee contracts, if costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, then we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control the costs we incur in performing under the contract, then our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. Our products are complex and could have unknown defects or errors, which may give rise to claims against us, diminish our brand or divert our resources from other purposes. Our UAS rely on complex avionics, sensors, user-friendly interfaces and tightly-integrated, electromechanical designs to accomplish their missions, and our fast charge systems and energy systems often rely upon the application of intellectual property for which there may have been little or no prior commercial application. Despite testing, our products have contained defects and errors and may in the future contain defects, errors or performance problems when first introduced, when new versions or enhancements are released, or even after these products have been used by our customers for a period of time. These problems could result in expensive and time-consuming design modifications or warranty charges, delays in the introduction of new products or enhancements, significant increases in our service and maintenance costs, exposure to liability for damages, damaged customer relationships and harm to our reputation, any of which could materially harm our results of operations and ability to achieve market acceptance. In addition, increased development and warranty costs could be substantial and could reduce our operating margins. The existence of any defects, errors, or failures in our products or the misuse of our products could also lead to product liability claims or lawsuits against us. A defect, error or failure in one of our UAS could result in injury, death or property damage and significantly damage our reputation and support for UAS in general. While our fast charge systems include certain safety mechanisms, these systems can deliver up to 600 amps of current in their application, and the failure, malfunction or misuse of these systems could result in injury or death. Although we maintain insurance policies, we cannot assure you that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to potential future claims or that these levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or at all. A successful product liability claim could result in substantial cost to us. Even if we are fully insured as it relates to a claim, the claim could nevertheless diminish our brand and divert management's attention and resources, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 The operation of UAS in urban environments may be subject to risks, such as accidental collisions and transmission interference, which may limit demand for our UAS in such environments and harm our business and operating results. Urban environments may present certain challenges to the operators of UAS. UAS may accidentally collide with other aircraft, persons or property, which could result in injury, death or property damage and significantly damage the reputation of and support for UAS in general. While we are aware of only one instance of an accidental collision involving an UAS to date, as the usage of UAS has increased, particularly by military customers in urban areas of Afghanistan and Iraq, the danger of such collisions has increased. Furthermore, the number of UAS that can operate simultaneously in a given geographic area is limited by the allocated frequency spectrum available. In addition, obstructions to effective transmissions in urban environments, such as large buildings, may limit the ability of the operator to utilize the aircraft for its intended purpose. The risks or limitations of operating UAS in urban environments may limit their value in such environments, which may limit demand for our UAS and consequently materially harm our business and operating results. Our quarterly operating results may vary widely. Our quarterly revenue, cash flow and operating results have and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, including the following: •fluctuations in revenue derived from government contracts, including cost-plus-fee contracts and contracts with a performance-based fee structure; •the size and timing of orders from military and other governmental agencies, including increased purchase requests from government customers for equipment and materials in connection with the U.S. government's fiscal year end, which may affect our quarterly operating results; •the mix of products that we sell in the period; •seasonal fluctuations in customer demand for some of our products or services; •unanticipated costs incurred in the introduction of new products; •fluctuations in the adoption of our products in new markets; •changes in the level of tax credits available for research and development spending; •cancellations, delays or contract amendments by our governmental agency customers; and •changes in policy or budgetary measures that adversely affect our governmental agency customers. Changes in the volume of products and services provided under existing contracts and the number of contracts commenced, completed or terminated during any quarter may cause significant variations in our cash flow from operations because a relatively large amount of our expenses are fixed. We incur significant operating expenses during the start-up and early stages of large contracts and typically do not receive corresponding payments in that same quarter. We may also incur significant or unanticipated expenses when contracts expire or are terminated or are not renewed. In addition, payments due to us from government agencies may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of failures of governmental budgets to gain congressional and presidential administration approval in a timely manner. Shortfalls in available external research and development funding could adversely affect us. We depend on our research and development activities to develop the core technologies used in our small UAS and PosiCharge products and for the development of our future products. A portion of 26 our research and development activities depends on funding by commercial companies and the U.S. government. U.S. government and commercial spending levels can be impacted by a number of variables, including general economic conditions, specific companies' financial performance and competition for U.S. government funding with other U.S. government-sponsored programs in the budget formulation and appropriation processes. Moreover, the U.S., state and local governments provide energy rebates and incentives to commercial companies, which directly impact the amount of research and development that companies appropriate for energy systems. To the extent that these energy rebates and incentives are reduced or eliminated, company funding for research and development could be reduced. Any reductions in available research and development funding could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Volatility and cyclicality in the market for electric industrial vehicles could adversely affect us. Our PosiCharge Systems products, which accounted for 9% of our revenue during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2008, are purchased primarily by operators of fleets of electric industrial vehicles, such as forklift trucks and airport ground support equipment. Consequently, our ability to remain profitable depends in part on the varying conditions in the market for electric industrial vehicles. This market is subject to volatility as it moves in response to cycles in the overall business environment and it is also particularly sensitive to the industrial, food and beverage, retail and air travel sectors, which generate a significant portion of the demand for such vehicles. Sales of electric industrial vehicles have historically been cyclical, with demand affected by such economic factors as industrial production, construction levels, demand for consumer and durable goods, interest rates and fuel costs. A significant decline in demand for electric industrial vehicles could adversely affect our revenue and prospects, which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our fast charge business is dependent upon our relationships with battery dealers and other third parties with whom we do not have exclusive arrangements. To remain competitive in the market for fast charge systems, we must maintain our access to potential customers and ensure that the service needs of our customers are met adequately. In many cases, we rely on battery dealers for access to potential PosiCharge fast charge system customers. Currently, several of our fast charge system competitors are working with battery manufacturers to sell fast charge systems and batteries together. Cooperative agreements between our competitors and battery manufacturers could restrict our access to battery dealers and potential PosiCharge fast charge systems customers, adversely affecting our revenue and prospects. Additionally, we rely on outside service providers to perform post-sale services for our PosiCharge customers. If these service providers fail to perform these services as required or discontinue their business with us, then we could lose customers to competitors, which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We work in international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs. Some of our services are performed in or adjacent to high-risk locations, such as Iraq and Kuwait, where the country or location is suffering from political, social or economic issues, or war or civil unrest. For example, during fiscal 2008, we have had up to ten employees operating in Iraq and/or Kuwait at any one time, both within and outside of U.S. government installations. In those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. Despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors, which could harm our business and operating results. 27 We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. We operate in emerging and rapidly evolving markets, which makes our prospects difficult to evaluate. It is possible that we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise have the capital resources to meet our future capital needs. If this occurs, then we may need additional financing to pursue our business strategies, including to: •hire additional engineers and other personnel; •develop new or enhance existing products; •enhance our operating infrastructure; •fund working capital requirements; •acquire complementary businesses or technologies; or •otherwise respond to competitive pressures. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our former line of credit contained, and future debt financing may contain, covenants or other provisions that limit our operational or financial flexibility. In addition, certain of our customers require that we obtain letters of credit to support our obligations under some of our contracts. Our existing letter-of-credit provider requires that we hold cash in an amount equal to the amount of our outstanding letters of credit as collateral. Continued access to letters of credit may be important to our ability to regain and win contracts in the future. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, then our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Our short-term investment portfolio includes investments in auction rate securities. Failures in the auctions for these securities affect our liquidity, while deterioration in credit ratings of issuers of such securities and/or third parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust the carrying value of our investment through an impairment of earnings. As of April 30, 2008, our $13.4 million of short-term investments consisted entirely of auction rate municipal bonds with maturities that range from approximately 11 to 27 years. These investments have characteristics similar to short-term investments, because at pre-determined intervals, generally ranging from 30 to 35 days, there is a new auction process at which the interest rates for these securities are reset to current interest rates. At the end of such period, we choose to roll-over our holdings or redeem the investments for cash. A market maker facilitates the redemption of the securities and the underlying issuers are not required to redeem the investment within 365 days. In 2008 we experienced several failed auctions of our auction rate securities and there is no assurance that auctions on the remaining auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will succeed in the future. As a result, our ability to liquidate our investments in the near term may be limited, and our ability to recover the carrying value of our investments may be limited. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell securities were not able to do so. As of June 13, 2008, including the securities involved in failed auctions, we held approximately $9.4 million of these auction rate securities, all of which carry investment grade ratings. If the issuers of these securities are unable to successfully close future auctions or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to 28 record an impairment charge on these investments. We currently believe these securities are not significantly impaired, primarily due to the government backing of the underlying securities. However, it could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 27 years) to realize our investments' recorded value. Based on our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents, expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate that the current lack of liquidity on these investments will affect our ability to continue to operate our business in the ordinary course, however we can provide no assurance as to when these investments will again become liquid or as to whether we may ultimately have to recognize an impairment charge with respect to these investments. Our international business poses potentially greater risks than our domestic business. We derived approximately 6% of our revenue from international sales during the three fiscal years ended April 30, 2008. We expect to derive an increasing portion of our revenue from international sales. Our international revenue and operations are subject to a number of material risks, including the following: •the unavailability of, or difficulties in obtaining any, necessary governmental authorizations for the export of our UAS products to certain foreign jurisdictions; •changes in regulatory requirements that may adversely affect our ability to sell certain products or repatriate profits to the U.S.; •the complexity and necessity of using foreign representatives and consultants; •difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems and other relevant legal issues, including fewer legal protections for intellectual property; •potential fluctuations in foreign economies and in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates; •potential preferences by prospective customers to purchase from local (non-U.S.) sources; •general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; •laws or regulations relating to non-U.S. military contracts that favor purchases from non-U.S. manufacturers over U.S. manufacturers; •the imposition of tariffs, embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; and •different and changing legal and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in demand for our products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables and a higher cost of doing business, any of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, our sales, including sales to customers outside the U.S., are denominated in dollars, and downward fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make our products more expensive than other products, which could harm our business. 29 Potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. We intend to consider strategic acquisitions that would add to our customer base, technological capabilities or system offerings. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including the following: •difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; •difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the target company; •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; •the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; •risks of entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; •potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company's business; •assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company's products; and •inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity, or securities convertible into equity, then our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could lower the market price of our common stock. If we finance acquisitions through debt, then such future debt financing may contain covenants or other provisions that limit our operational or financial flexibility. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, then we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. Environmental laws and regulations and unforeseen costs could impact our future earnings. The manufacture and sale of our products in certain states and countries may subject us to environmental and other regulations. For example, we obtain a significant number of our electronics components from companies located in East Asia, where environmental rules may be less stringent than in the United States. Over time, the countries where these companies are located may adopt more stringent environmental regulations, resulting in an increase in our manufacturing costs. Furthermore, certain environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive, Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, impose strict, joint and several liability on current and previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances and impose liability for damages to natural resources. These laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. These environmental laws also assess liability on persons who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities when such facilities are found to be contaminated. Such persons can be responsible for cleanup costs even if they never owned or operated the contaminated facility. Although we have not yet been named a responsible party at a contaminated site, we could be named a 30 potentially responsible party in the future. We cannot assure you that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on our future earnings or results of operations. Our business and operations are subject to the risks of earthquakes and other natural catastrophic events. Our corporate headquarters, research and development and manufacturing operations are located in Southern California, a region known for seismic activity and wild fires. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event, could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations, and as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our U.S. Government Contracts We are subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business. As a contractor to the U.S. government, we are subject to and must comply with various government regulations that impact our revenue, operating costs, profit margins and the internal organization and operation of our business. The most significant regulations and regulatory authorities affecting our business include the following: •the Federal Acquisition Regulations and supplemental agency regulations, which comprehensively regulate the formation and administration of, and performance under, U.S. government contracts; •the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all factual cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; •the False Claims Act and the False Statements Act, which impose penalties for payments made on the basis of false facts provided to the government and on the basis of false statements made to the government, respectively; •the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from providing anything of value to a foreign official to help obtain, retain or direct business, or obtain any unfair advantage; •the National Telecommunications and Information Administration and the Federal Communications Commission, which regulate the wireless spectrum allocations upon which UAS depend for operation and data transmission in the U.S.; •the Federal Aviation Administration, which is in the process of drafting regulations specifically for small UAS operation in the U.S.; •the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, which regulate the export of controlled technical data, defense articles and defense services and restrict from which countries we may purchase materials and services used in the production of certain of our products; and •laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. Also, we need special security clearances and regulatory approvals to continue working on certain of our projects with the U.S. government. Classified programs generally will require that we comply with various executive orders, federal laws and regulations and customer security requirements that may include restrictions on how we develop, store, protect and share information, and may require our employees to obtain government security clearances. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations, rules and approvals or misconduct by any of our employees could result in the imposition of fines and 31 penalties, the loss of security clearances, the loss of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government generally, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to certain regulations of comparable government agencies in other countries, and our failure to comply with these non-U.S. regulations could also harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. government. U.S. government agencies, primarily the Defense Contract Audit Agency, or DCAA, and the DCMA, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. These agencies also may review the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Like most government contractors, our contracts are audited and reviewed on a continual basis by the DCMA and the DCAA. Audits for costs incurred on work performed after fiscal year 2005 have not yet been completed. In addition, non-audit reviews by the government may still be conducted on all of our government contracts. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit of our business were to uncover improper or illegal activities, then we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety or illegal acts were made against us, even if the allegations were inaccurate. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally, or any specific agency, if our reputation or relationship with government agencies were impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our revenue and operating results would be materially harmed. Some of our contracts with the U.S. government allow it to use inventions developed under the contracts and to disclose technical data to third parties, which could harm our ability to compete. Some of our contracts allow the U.S. government to use, royalty-free, or have others use, inventions developed under those contracts on behalf of the government. Some of the contracts allow the federal government to disclose technical data without constraining the recipient on how those data are used. The ability of third parties to use patents and technical data for government purposes creates the possibility that the government could attempt to establish alternative suppliers or to negotiate with us to reduce our prices. The potential that the government may release some of the technical data without constraint creates the possibility that third parties may be able to use this data to compete with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. U.S. government contracts are generally not fully funded at inception and contain certain provisions that may be unfavorable to us, which could prevent us from realizing our contract backlog and materially harm our business and results of operations. DoD contracts typically involve long lead times for design and development, and are subject to significant changes in contract scheduling. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The termination or reduction of funding for a government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program. 32 The actual receipt of revenue on awards included in backlog may never occur or may change because a program schedule could change or the program could be canceled, or a contract could be reduced, modified or terminated early. In addition, U.S. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, at the government's convenience or for contractor default. Since a substantial majority of our revenue is dependent on the procurement, performance and payment under our U.S. government contracts, the termination of one or more critical government contracts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to re-compete for future contracts and orders. Moreover, several of our contracts with the U.S. government do not contain a limitation of liability provision, creating a risk of responsibility for indirect, incidental damages and consequential damages. These provisions could cause substantial liability for us, especially given the use to which our products may be put. U.S. government contracts are subject to a competitive bidding process that can consume significant resources without generating any revenue. U.S. government contracts are frequently awarded only after formal, protracted competitive bidding processes and, in many cases, unsuccessful bidders for U.S. government contracts are provided the opportunity to protest contract awards through various agency, administrative and judicial channels. We derive significant revenue from U.S. government contracts that were awarded through a competitive bidding process. Much of the UAS business that we expect to seek in the foreseeable future likely will be awarded through competitive bidding. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including the following: •the need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns; •the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that must be spent to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; •the need to estimate accurately the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we are awarded; and •the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the delay of our contract performance, the distraction of management, the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. We may not be provided the opportunity to bid on contracts that are held by other companies and are scheduled to expire if the government extends the existing contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through a competitive bidding process, then we may not be able to operate in the market for goods and services that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to win new contract awards over any extended period consistently, then our business and prospects will be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we fail to protect, or incur significant costs in defending, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and unfair 33 competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. However, a significant portion of our technology is not patented, and we may be unable or may not seek to obtain patent protection for this technology. Moreover, existing U.S. legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights offer only limited protection, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, and may be challenged by third parties. The laws of countries other than the United States may be even less protective of intellectual property rights. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or otherwise gaining access to our technology. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer our products or portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Moreover, many of our employees have access to our trade secrets and other intellectual property. If one or more of these employees leave us to work for one of our competitors, then they may disseminate this proprietary information, which may as a result damage our competitive position. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, then our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed. In addition, affirmatively defending our intellectual property rights and investigating whether we are pursuing a product or service development that may violate the rights of others may entail significant expense. We have not found it necessary to resort to legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property, but may find it necessary to do so in the future. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, then the proceedings could result in significant expense to us and divert the attention and efforts of our management and technical employees, even if we prevail. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which could be costly, time-consuming and limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. We may become subject to claims that our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of third parties. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive, and could divert our management's attention away from the execution of our business plan. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from these claims could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use the disputed technology, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain a license from the third party asserting the claim on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, that we would be able to develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all, or that we would be able to obtain a license to use a suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, our affected product. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our products to others. Infringement claims asserted against us may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock Our common stock has only been publicly traded since January 23, 2007 and the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. There has only been a public market for our common stock since January 23, 2007. The market prices for securities of emerging technology companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may 34 fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including the following: •U.S. government spending levels, both generally and by our particular customers; •The volume of operational activity by the U.S. military; •delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices, resulting in potentially reduced earnings during a particular fiscal quarter; •announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events relating to us or our industry or our competitors; •failure of any of our key products to gain market acceptance; •variations in our quarterly operating results; •perceptions of the prospects for the markets in which we compete; •changes in general economic conditions; •changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance; •regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; •fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; •news about the markets in which we compete or regarding our competitors; •terrorist acts or military action related to international conflicts, wars or otherwise; •sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; and •additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, the equity markets in general, and NASDAQ in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of securities of emerging technology companies have been particularly volatile. These broad market and industry factors may affect the market price of our common stock adversely, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against that company. This type of litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Our management, whose interests may not be aligned with yours, is able to control the vote on all matters requiring stockholder approval. As of June 13, 2008, our directors, executive officers and their affiliates collectively beneficially owned 4,951,488 shares, or approximately 24%, of our total outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, our directors and executive officers as a group may control the vote on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors. The interests of our directors and executive officers may not be fully aligned with yours. Although there is no agreement among our directors and executive officers with respect to the voting of their shares, this concentration of ownership may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company, and make transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of all or some of our directors and executive officers. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock. 35 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 