Item 1A. Risk Factors.” These risks and uncertainties are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report describe additional factors that could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible to predict all risks and uncertainties, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations and we do not intend to do so. We caution you not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We expressly qualify in their entirety all forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS NYSE Euronext, Inc. (“NYSE Euronext” or the “Company”), a Delaware corporation, was formed on May 22, 2006 as a wholly owned subsidiary of NYSE Group, Inc. (“NYSE Group”). Upon the completion of the combination (the “Combination”) of the businesses of NYSE Group and Euronext N.V. (“Euronext”) as described in the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-137506) (the “S-4”), NYSE Euronext will become the parent company of NYSE Group and Euronext, which will continue to operate separately under their respective brand names. To date, NYSE Euronext has not conducted any material activities other than those incidental to its formation and the matters contemplated by the combination agreement (the “Combination Agreement”) dated as of June 1, 2006, as amended and restated as of November 24, 2006, by and among NYSE Group, Euronext, NYSE Euronext, and Jefferson Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a newly formed, wholly owned subsidiary of NYSE Euronext. The address of NYSE Euronext’s principal executive office is c/o NYSE Group, 11 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005. Its telephone number is (212) 656-3000. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, NYSE Euronext did not conduct any material activities other than those incidental to its formation and the matters contemplated by the Combination Agreement. Therefore, NYSE Euronext did not incur any significant risk. Further information regarding market and other risk is incorporated by reference from the section entitled “Risk Factors” in NYSE Group’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, which section is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 