Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have a history of losses and may incur additional losses in the future. In 2006, 2007 and 2008 we incurred pre-tax losses of $89.8 million, $7.7 million, and $40.7 million, respectively. Our loss for 2006 includes $79.0 million in derivative losses and our loss for 2008 includes $18.6 million in expenses associated with our support for Proposition 10, the California Alternative Fuel Vehicles and Renewable Energy ballot initiative. During 2007 and 2008, our losses were substantially decreased by our receipt of approximately $17.0 million and $20.8 million of revenue from federal fuel tax credits and the law providing for the fuel tax credits is scheduled to expire December 31, 2009. In order to execute our strategy and improve our financial performance, we must continue to invest in developing the natural gas vehicle fuel market and offer our customers compelling natural gas fuel prices. If our natural gas sales activities and station operations do not achieve or maintain profitability that can be sustained in the absence of federal fuel tax credits, our business will suffer and the price of our common stock may drop. We may need to raise debt or equity capital to fund increased capital expenditures beyond those included in our 2009 capital budget or for any potential acquisitions, and an inability to access the capital markets may impair our ability to invest in our business. We anticipate that, in order to fund additional capital projects beyond those included in our current 2009 capital expenditure program or to provide resources for potential acquisition activity, we may need to pursue additional equity financing options, which may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. Our 2009 capital plan anticipates $31.6 million of capital expenditures and no amounts for acquisitions. We may also pursue debt financing options including, but not limited to equipment financing, the sale of convertible promissory notes or commercial bank financing. Recent economic turmoil and severe lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets and volatility and rapidly falling prices in the equity capital markets have severely and adversely affected capital raising opportunities. If we are unable to obtain debt or equity financing in amounts sufficient to fund any additional capital expenditures or unanticipated expenses, we will be forced to suspend or curtail these capital 23 expenditures or postpone or delay potential acquisitions or other strategic transactions, which could harm our business, results of operations, and future prospects. In addition, we have committed to provide up to $6.2 million in additional funding during 2009 to the Vehicle Production Group LLC, a company planning to manufacture CNG taxi and paratransit vehicles. If we do not have sufficient funds to fund our capital commitment to the Vehicle Production Group, we may lose our investment of $4.6 million that has been made through December 31, 2008. Decreases in the price of oil, gasoline and diesel fuel may slow the growth of our business and negatively impact our financial results. Prices for oil, gasoline and diesel fuel have declined rapidly since the summer of 2008. The price for a barrel of crude oil has declined from a high of $148.35 per barrel reached on July 11, 2008 to a price of $38.00 per barrel on December 31, 2008. Average retail prices for ultra low sulfur diesel fuel in California have declined from a high of $5.03 in May and June of 2008 to $2.24 per gallon at December 31, 2008 and average retail prices for gasoline in California have declined from a high of $4.59 per gallon in June of 2008 to $1.81 per gallon at December 31, 2008. The decrease in the price of diesel and gasoline, in particular, has resulted in reduced interest in alternative fuels such as LNG and CNG. Decreased interest in alternative fuels will slow the growth of our business. In addition, to the extent that we price our CNG and LNG fuel at a discount to these reduced diesel or gasoline prices in an effort to attract new and retain existing customers, our profit margin on fuel sales may be harmed and our financial results negatively impacted. Our retail prices for LNG fuel in California decreased from $3.70 per diesel gallon equivalent in June and July of 2008 to $2.00 per diesel gallon equivalent at December 31, 2008 and our retail prices for CNG fuel sold in the Los Angeles Basin decreased from a high of $3.20 per gasoline gallon equivalent in July of 2008 to a low of $1.30 per gasoline gallon equivalent at December 31, 2008. Lower fuel prices for CNG and LNG will reduce our revenues. If the prices of CNG and LNG do not remain sufficiently below the prices of gasoline and diesel, potential fleet customers will have less incentive to purchase natural gas vehicles or convert their fleets to natural gas, which would decrease demand for CNG and LNG and limit our growth. Natural gas vehicles cost more than comparable gasoline or diesel powered vehicles because converting a vehicle to use natural gas adds to its base cost. If the prices of CNG and LNG do not remain sufficiently below the prices of gasoline or diesel, fleet operators may be unable to recover the additional costs of acquiring or converting to natural gas vehicles in a timely manner, and they may choose not to use natural gas vehicles. Recent and extreme volatility in oil and gasoline prices demonstrate that it is difficult to predict future transportation fuel costs. The decline in the price of oil, diesel fuel and gasoline has reduced the economic advantages that our existing or potential customers may realize by using less expensive CNG or LNG fuel as an alternative to gasoline or diesel. The reduced prices for gasoline and diesel fuel and continuing uncertainty about fuel prices, combined with higher costs for natural gas vehicles, may cause potential customers to delay or reject converting their fleets to run on natural gas. In that event, our growth would be slowed and our business would suffer. The volatility of natural gas prices could adversely impact the adoption of CNG and LNG vehicle fuel and our business. In the recent past, the price of natural gas has been volatile, and this volatility may continue. From the end of 1999 through the end of 2008, the price for natural gas, based on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) daily futures data, ranged from a low of $1.65 per Mcf to a high of $19.38 per Mcf. As of March 1, 2009, the NYMEX index price for natural gas was $4.07 per Mcf. Increased natural gas prices affect the cost to us of natural gas and will adversely impact our operating margins in cases where we have committed to sell natural gas at a fixed price without a futures contract or with an ineffective futures contract that does not fully mitigate the price risk or where we otherwise cannot pass 24 on the increased costs to our customers. In addition, higher natural gas prices may cause CNG and LNG to cost as much as or more than gasoline and diesel generally, which would adversely impact the adoption of CNG and LNG as a vehicle fuel. Conversely, lower natural gas prices reduce our revenues, including revenue generated by sales of biomethane through our 70% interest in our landfill gas joint-venture. Low prices for natural gas may prevent us from selling the biomethane produced at our landfill gas processing plant at prices that exceed our operating and production costs, which has and may continue to result in financial losses. Among the factors that can cause price fluctuations in natural gas prices are changes in domestic and foreign supplies of natural gas, domestic storage levels, crude oil prices, the price difference between crude oil and natural gas, price and availability of alternative fuels, weather conditions, level of consumer demand, economic conditions, price of foreign natural gas imports, and domestic and foreign governmental regulations and political conditions. The recent economic recession has resulted in significant and rapid declines in the price of natural gas. Failure to comply with the terms of our Credit Agreement with PlainsCapital Bank could impair our rights in Dallas Clean Energy, LLC ("DCE") and other secured property. In August, 2008 we acquired a 70% interest in DCE, which manages a biomethane production facility at the McCommas Bluff landfill in Dallas, Texas and holds a lease to the associated landfill gas development rights. We borrowed $18.0 million from PlainsCapital Bank to fund the acquisition and obtained a $12 million line of credit from PlainsCapital to pay certain costs and expenses of the acquisition and finance capital improvements of the gas processing plant through a loan made by us to DCE. We have used $7.9 million of the line of credit from PlainsCapital Bank as of March 13, 2009. To secure our obligations under the Credit Agreement, we granted PlainsCapital Bank a security interest in 45 of our LNG tanker trailers, certain accounts receivable and inventory, our note receivable from, and our membership interests in, DCE. If we default on the Credit Agreement or otherwise fail to comply with any of the negative or affirmative covenants of the Credit Agreement, PlainsCapital Bank may declare all of the obligations and indebtedness under the Credit Agreement (and related documents) due and payable. In addition, reduction in our accounts receivable balances at certain of our subsidiaries due to decreased natural gas prices may result in violation of one of our debt covenants under our credit agreement with PlainsCapital Bank, as is further described in "Liquidity and Capital Resources." In such a scenario, we may lose our right, title, and interest in the property that secures such obligations and indebtedness. Our growth depends in part on environmental regulations and programs mandating the use of cleaner burning fuels, and modification or repeal of these regulations may adversely impact our business. Our business depends in part on environmental regulations and programs in the United States that promote or mandate the use of cleaner burning fuels, including natural gas for vehicles. In particular, the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach have adopted the San Pedro Bay Ports Clean Air Action Plan, which outlines a Clean Trucks Program that calls for the replacement of 16,000 drayage trucks with trucks that meet certain clean truck standards. Industry participants with a vested interest in gasoline and diesel, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do, invest significant time and money in an effort to influence environmental regulations in ways that delay or repeal requirements for cleaner vehicle emissions. In addition, the Federal Maritime Commission has filed a lawsuit to block parts of the Clean Trucks Program as anticompetitive and the American Trucking Association has also filed suit to challenge specific concession requirements in the Clean Trucks Program, either of which may delay the program's implementation. Further, an economic recession may result in the delay, amendment or waiver of environmental regulations or the Clean Trucks Program due to the perception that they impose increased costs on the transportation industry that cannot be absorbed in a contracting economy. The delay, repeal or modification of federal or state regulations or programs that encourage the use of cleaner vehicles, and in particular the Clean Trucks Program 25 outlined in the San Pedro Bay Ports Clean Air Action Plan, could have a detrimental effect on the U.S. natural gas vehicle industry, which, in turn, could slow our growth and adversely affect our business. Our growth depends in part on tax and related government incentives for clean burning fuels. A reduction in these incentives would increase the cost of natural gas fuel and vehicles for our customers and could significantly reduce our revenue. Our business depends in part on tax credits, rebates and similar federal, state and local government incentives that promote the use of natural gas as a vehicle fuel in the United States. The federal excise tax credit of $0.50 per gasoline gallon equivalent of CNG and liquid gallon of LNG sold for vehicle fuel use, which began on October 1, 2006, is scheduled to expire December 31, 2009. Based on the service relationship we have with our customers, either we or our customers are able to claim the credit. In 2007 and 2008, we recorded $17.0 million and $20.8 million of revenue, respectively, related to fuel tax credits, representing approximately 14.5% and 16.1%, respectively, of our total revenue during the period. The failure to extend the federal excise tax credit for natural gas, or the repeal of federal or state tax credits for the purchase of natural gas vehicles or natural gas fueling equipment, could have a detrimental effect on the natural gas vehicle industry, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, if grant funds were no longer available under existing government programs, the purchase of or conversion to natural gas vehicles and station construction could slow and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Any reduction in tax revenues associated with an economic recession or slow-down could result in a significant reduction in funds available for government grants that support vehicle conversion and station construction and impair our ability to grow our business. The use of natural gas as a vehicle fuel may not become sufficiently accepted for us to expand our business. To expand our business, we must develop new fleet customers and obtain and fulfill CNG and LNG fueling contracts from these customers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop these customers or obtain these fueling contracts. Whether we will be able to expand our customer base will depend on a number of factors, including: the level of acceptance and availability of natural gas vehicles, the growth in our target markets of fueling station infrastructure that supports CNG and LNG sales and our ability to supply CNG and LNG at competitive prices. The recent and rapid decline in oil, diesel and gasoline prices has resulted in decreased interest in alternative fuels like CNG and LNG. In addition, recent disruption in the capital markets has severely reduced the availability of debt financing to support the purchase of CNG and LNG vehicles and investment in the CNG and LNG infrastructure. If our potential customers are unable to access credit to purchase natural gas vehicles it may make it difficult or impossible for them to invest in natural gas vehicle fleets, which would impair our ability to grow our business. The infrastructure to support gasoline and diesel consumption is vastly more developed than the infrastructure for natural gas vehicle fuels. Gasoline and diesel fueling stations and service infrastructure are widely available in the United States. For natural gas vehicle fuels to achieve more widespread use in the United States and Canada, they will require a promotional and educational effort, and the development and supply of more natural gas vehicles and fueling stations. This will require significant continued effort by us, as well as government and clean air groups, and we may face resistance from oil companies and other vehicle fuel companies. A prolonged economic recession and continued disruption in the capital markets may make it difficult or impossible to obtain financing to expand the natural gas vehicle fuel infrastructure and impair our ability to grow our business. There is no assurance natural gas will ever achieve the level of acceptance as a vehicle fuel necessary for us to expand our business significantly. 26 A decline in the demand for vehicular natural gas would reduce our revenue and negatively affect our ability to sustain our revenue growth. We derive our revenue primarily from sales of CNG and LNG as a fuel for fleet vehicles, and we expect this trend will continue. A downturn in demand for CNG and LNG would adversely affect our revenue and ability to sustain and grow our operations. Circumstances that could cause a drop in demand for CNG and LNG vehicle fuel are described in other risk factors and include a reduction in supply of natural gas, changes in governmental incentives, the development of other alternative fuels and technologies, continued economic contraction, prolonged disruption in the capital markets, lower prices for competing fuels such as diesel and gasoline and any sustained increase in the price of natural gas relative to gasoline and diesel. Automobile and engine manufacturers produce very few originally manufactured natural gas vehicles and engines for the U.S. and Canadian markets, which may restrict our sales. Limited availability of natural gas vehicles restricts their wide scale introduction and narrows our potential customer base. Currently, original equipment manufacturers produce a small number of natural gas engines and vehicles, and they may not make adequate investments to expand their natural gas engine and vehicle product lines. For the North American market, there is only one automobile manufacturer that makes natural gas powered passenger vehicles, and manufacturers of medium and heavy-duty vehicles produce only a narrow range and number of natural gas vehicles. The technology utilized in some of the heavy-duty vehicles that run on LNG is also relatively new and has not been previously deployed or used in large numbers of vehicles. As result these vehicles may require servicing and further technology refinements to address performance issues that may occur as vehicles are deployed in large numbers and are operated under strenuous conditions. If potential heavy duty LNG truck purchasers are not satisfied with truck performance, it may delay or impair the growth of our LNG fueling business. Further, North American car and truck manufacturers are facing significant economic challenges that may make it difficult or impossible for them to introduce new natural gas vehicles in the North American market or continue to manufacture and support the limited number of available natural gas vehicles. Due to the limited supply of natural gas vehicles, our ability to promote natural gas vehicles and our sales may be restricted, even if there is demand. There are a small number of companies that convert vehicles to operate on natural gas, which may restrict our sales. Conversion of vehicle engines from gasoline or diesel to natural gas is performed by only a small number of vehicle conversion suppliers that must meet stringent safety and engine emissions certification standards. The engine certification process is time consuming and expensive and raises vehicle costs. In addition, conversion of vehicle engines from gasoline or diesel to natural gas may result in vehicle performance issues or increased maintenance costs which could discourage our potential customers from purchasing converted vehicles that run on natural gas. Without an increase in vehicle conversion options, vehicle choices for fleet use will remain limited and our sales may be restricted, even if there is demand. If there are advances in other alternative vehicle fuels or technologies, or if there are improvements in gasoline, diesel or hybrid engines, demand for natural gas vehicles may decline and our business may suffer. Technological advances in the production, delivery and use of alternative fuels that are, or are perceived to be, cleaner, more cost-effective or more readily available than CNG or LNG have the potential to slow adoption of natural gas vehicles. Advances in gasoline and diesel engine technology, especially hybrids, may offer a cleaner, more cost-effective option and make fleet customers less likely to convert their fleets to natural gas. Technological advances related to ethanol or biodiesel, which are 27 increasingly used as an additive to, or substitute for, gasoline and diesel fuel, may slow the need to diversify fuels and affect the growth of the natural gas vehicle market. In addition, a prototype heavy-duty electric truck model was recently introduced at the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. Use of electric heavy-duty trucks or the perception that electric heavy-duty trucks may soon be widely available and provide satisfactory performance in heavy-duty applications may reduce demand for heavy-duty LNG trucks. In addition, hydrogen and other alternative fuels in experimental or developmental stages may eventually offer a cleaner, more cost-effective alternative to gasoline and diesel than natural gas. Advances in technology that slow the growth of or conversion to natural gas vehicles or which otherwise reduce demand for natural gas as a vehicle fuel will have an adverse effect on our business. Failure of natural gas vehicle technology to advance at a sufficient pace may also limit its adoption and ability to compete with other alternative fuels. Our ability to supply LNG to new and existing customers is restricted by limited production of LNG and by our ability to source LNG without interruption and near our target markets. Production of LNG in the United States is fragmented. LNG is produced at a variety of smaller natural gas plants around the United States as well as at larger plants where it is a byproduct of their primary natural gas production. It may become difficult for us to obtain additional LNG without interruption and near our current or target markets at competitive prices. If our LNG liquefaction plants, or any of those from which we purchase LNG, are damaged by severe weather, earthquake or other natural disaster, or otherwise experiences prolonged downtime, our LNG supply will be restricted. If we are unable to supply enough of our own LNG or purchase it from third parties to meet existing customer demand, we may be liable to our customers for penalties. An LNG supply interruption would also limit our ability to expand LNG sales to new customers, which would hinder our growth. Furthermore, because transportation of LNG is relatively expensive, if we are required to supply LNG to our customers from distant locations, our operating margins will decrease on those sales. LNG supply purchase commitments may exceed demand causing our costs to increase and impact LNG sales margins. Some of our LNG supply agreements have take or pay commitments and the new California LNG liquefaction plant has land lease and other fixed operating costs regardless of production and sales levels. Should the market demand for LNG decline or if demand under any existing or any future LNG supply contract does not maintain its volume levels or grow, overall operating and supply costs may increase and negatively impact our margins. Two of our third-party LNG suppliers may cancel their supply contracts with us on short notice or increase their LNG prices, which would hinder our ability to meet customer demand and increase our costs. Two third-party LNG suppliers, Williams Gas Processing Company and ExxonMobil Corporation, supplied approximately 47% of the LNG we sold for the year ended December 31, 2007 and supplied 49% of the LNG we sold for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our contracts with these LNG suppliers generally may be terminated by the supplier on short notice. In addition, under certain circumstances, Williams Gas Processing Company may significantly increase the price of LNG we purchase upon 24 hours' notice if Williams' costs to produce LNG increases, and we may be required to reimburse Williams for certain other expenses. Williams Gas Processing Company supplied 32% of the LNG we sold for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 29% for the year ended December 31, 2008, and our contract with Williams expires on June 30, 2011. Our contract with ExxonMobil Corporation, which supplied 15% of the LNG we sold for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 20% for the year ended December 31, 2008, expires on March 31, 2009. Furthermore, there are a limited number of LNG suppliers in or near the areas where our LNG customers are located. It may be 28 difficult to replace an LNG supplier, and we may be unable to obtain alternate suppliers at acceptable prices, in a timely manner or at all. If significant supply interruptions occur, our ability to meet customer demand will be impaired, customers may cancel orders and we may be subject to supply interruption penalties. If we are subject to LNG price increases, our operating margins may be impaired and we may be forced to sell LNG at a loss under our LNG supply contracts. If we are unable to obtain natural gas in the amounts needed on a timely basis or at reasonable prices, we could experience an interruption of CNG or LNG deliveries or increases in CNG or LNG costs, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Some regions of the United States and Canada depend heavily on natural gas supplies coming from particular fields or pipelines. Interruptions in field production or in pipeline capacity could reduce the availability of natural gas or possibly create a supply imbalance that increases natural gas prices. We have in the past experienced LNG supply disruptions due to severe weather in the Gulf of Mexico and plant outages. If there are interruptions in field production, pipeline capacity, equipment failure, liquefaction production or delivery, we may experience supply stoppages which could result in our inability to fulfill delivery commitments. This could result in our being liable for contractual damages and daily penalties or otherwise adversely affect our business. Oil companies and natural gas utilities, which have far greater resources and brand awareness than we have, may expand into the natural gas fuel market, which could harm our business and prospects. There are numerous potential competitors who could enter the market for CNG and LNG as vehicle fuels. Many of these potential entrants, such as integrated oil companies and natural gas utilities, have far greater resources and brand awareness than we have. If the use of natural gas vehicles increases, these companies may find it more attractive to enter the market for natural gas vehicle fuels and we may experience increased pricing pressure, reduced operating margins and fewer expansion opportunities. We are in the process of commencing operations at a new LNG liquefaction plant, which could cost more to operate than we estimate and divert resources and management attention. We are in the initial stages of operating our LNG liquefaction plant in California, which began producing LNG in November 2008. The implementation and operation of any plant of this nature has inherent risks. Permitting, environmental issues, lack of materials and lack of human resources, among other factors, could complicate our ability to operate the LNG liquefaction plant and affect the operation of the plant. The new facility could also present increased financial exposure through start-up delays, repairs and incomplete production capability. If the new plant has higher than expected operating costs and is not able to produce expected amounts of LNG, we may be forced to sell LNG at a price below production costs and we may lose money. Additionally, if the quality of LNG produced at the plant does not meet contractual specifications, our customers may not be required to purchase it, which would harm our business. If we do not have effective futures contracts in place, increases in natural gas prices may cause us to lose money. From 2005 to 2008, we sold and delivered approximately 30% of our total gasoline gallon equivalents of CNG and LNG under contracts that provided a fixed price or a price cap to our customers over terms typically ranging from one to three years, and in some cases up to five years. At any given time, however, the market price of natural gas may rise and our obligations to sell fuel under fixed price contracts may be at prices lower than our fuel purchase or production price if we do not have effective futures contracts in place. This circumstance has in the past and may again in the future compel us to sell fuel at a loss, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial 29 condition. Commencing with the adoption of our revised natural gas hedging policy in February 2007, we expect to purchase futures contracts to hedge our exposure to variability related to our fixed price contracts. However, such contracts may not be available or we may not have sufficient financial resources to secure such contacts. In addition, under our hedging policy, we may reduce or remove futures contracts we have in place related to these contracts if such disposition is approved in advance by our board of directors and derivative committee. If we are not economically hedged with respect to our fixed price contracts, we will lose money in connection with those contracts during periods in which natural gas prices increase above the prices of natural gas included in our customers' contracts. As of December 31, 2008, we were economically hedged with respect to two of our fixed price contracts with our customers. Based on natural gas prices as of December 31, 2008, we anticipate we will incur between $70,000 and $85,000 of costs to cover the increased price of natural gas above the inherent price of natural gas embedded in our customers' fixed price and price cap contracts where we are not economically hedged over the duration of the contracts. We expect the majority of these costs will be incurred from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009. Our futures contracts may not be as effective as we intend. Our purchase of futures contracts can result in substantial losses under various circumstances, including if we do not accurately estimate the volume requirements under our fixed price or price cap customer contracts when determining the volumes included in the futures contracts we purchase, or we are required to purchase a futures contract in connection with a bid proposal and ultimately we are not awarded the entire contract or our customer does not fully perform its obligations under the awarded contract. We also could incur significant losses if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable futures arrangement, the futures arrangement is economically imperfect or ineffective, or our futures policies and procedures are not properly followed or do not work as planned. Furthermore, we cannot assure that the steps we take to monitor our futures activities will detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures. A decline in the value of our futures contracts may result in margin calls that would adversely impact our liquidity. We are required to maintain a margin account to cover losses related to our natural gas futures contracts. Futures contracts are valued daily, and if our contracts are in loss positions at the end of a trading day, our broker will transfer the amount of the losses from our margin account to a clearinghouse. If at any time the funds in our margin account drop below a specified maintenance level, our broker will issue a margin call that requires us to restore the balance. Payments we make to satisfy margin calls will reduce our cash reserves, adversely impact our liquidity and may also adversely impact our ability to expand our business. Moreover, if we are unable to satisfy the margin calls related to our futures contracts, our broker may sell these contracts to restore the margin requirement at a substantial loss to us. At December 31, 2008, we had $1.1 million on deposit related to our futures contracts. If our futures contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, our net income and stockholders' equity will fluctuate more significantly from quarter to quarter based on fluctuations in the market value of our futures contracts. We account for our futures activities under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended (SFAS 133), which requires us to value our futures contracts at fair market value in our financial statements. Our futures contracts historically have not qualified for hedge accounting, and therefore we have recorded any changes in the fair market value of these contracts directly in our consolidated statements of operations in the line item "derivative (gains) losses" along with any realized gains or losses during the period. In the future, we will attempt to qualify all of our futures contracts for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, but there 30 can be no assurances that we will be successful in doing so. At December 31, 2008, we had two futures contracts that did qualify for hedge accounting. To the extent that all or some of our futures contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, we could incur significant increases and decreases in our net income and stockholders' equity in the future based on fluctuations in the market value of our futures contracts from quarter to quarter. For example, we experienced a derivative gain of $33.1 million and $5.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2005 and June 30, 2008, respectively, and experienced derivative losses of $19.9 million, $0.3 million, $65 million, $13.7 million, $6.0 million and $0.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2005, March 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, December 31, 2006, September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2008, respectively. We had no derivative gains or losses for the three months ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007, September 30, 2007, December 31, 2007 and March 31, 2008. Any negative fluctuations may cause our stock price to decline due to our failure to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Compliance with Potential Greenhouse Gas Regulations Affecting Our LNG Plants or Stations May Prove Costly and Negatively Affect Our Financial Performance. California has adopted legislation, AB 32, or the Global Warming Solutions Act, which calls for a cap on greenhouse-gas emissions throughout California and a statewide reduction to 1990 levels by 2020, and an additional 80% reduction below 1990 levels by 2050. Seven western U.S. states (Arizona, California, Montana, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Washington) and four Canadian provinces (British Columbia, Manitoba, Ontario and Quebec) formed the Western Climate Initiative to help combat climate change. Other states and the federal government are considering passing measures to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Any of these regulations, when and if implemented, may regulate the greenhouse gas emissions produced by our LNG production plants in California and Texas or our LNG and CNG stations and require that we obtain emissions credits or invest in costly emissions prevention technology. We can not currently estimate the potential costs associated with federal or state regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from our LNG plants or LNG and CNG stations and these unknown costs are not contemplated in the financial terms of our customer agreements. These unanticipated costs may have a negative impact on our financial performance and may impair our ability to fulfill customer contracts at an operating profit. Natural gas operations entail inherent safety and environmental risks that may result in substantial liability to us. Natural gas operations entail inherent risks, including equipment defects, malfunctions and failures and natural disasters, which could result in uncontrollable flows of natural gas, fires, explosions and other damages. For example, operation of LNG pumps requires special training and protective equipment because of the extreme low temperatures of LNG. LNG tanker trailers have also in the past been, and may in the future be, involved in accidents that result in explosions, fires and other damage. Improper refueling of LNG vehicles can result in venting of methane gas. Additionally, CNG fuel tanks, if damaged or improperly maintained, may rupture and the contents of the tank may rapidly decompress and result in death or injury. In 2007, a driver of a CNG van in Los Angeles was killed when the recently damaged tanks he was fueling exploded. These risks may expose us to liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damage. We may incur substantial liability and cost if damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits. 31 Our business is heavily concentrated in the western United States, particularly in California and Arizona. Continuing economic downturns in these regions could adversely affect our business. Our operations to date have been concentrated in California and Arizona. For the year ended December 31, 2007 and the year ended December 31, 2008, sales in California accounted for 40% and 45% respectively, and sales in Arizona accounted for 20% and 14%, respectively, of the total amount of gallons we delivered. A continuing decline in the economy in these areas could slow the rate of adoption of natural gas vehicles, reduce fuel consumption or reduce the availability of government grants, any of which could negatively affect our growth. We provide financing to fleet customers for natural gas vehicles, which exposes our business to credit risks. We loan to certain qualifying customers on average 60% and occasionally up to 100% of the purchase price of natural gas vehicles. We may also lease vehicles to customers in the future. There are risks associated with providing financing or leasing that could cause us to lose money. Some of these risks include: most of the equipment financed consists of vehicles, which are mobile and easily damaged, lost or stolen, there is a risk the borrower may default on payments, we may not be able to bill properly or track payments in adequate fashion to sustain growth of this service, and the amount of capital available to us is limited and may not allow us to make loans required by customers. Some of our customers, such as taxi owners, may depend on the CNG vehicles that we finance as their sole source of income, which may make it difficult for us to recover the collateral in a bankruptcy proceeding. The continued disruption in the credit markets may further reduce the amount of capital available to us and an economic recession or continued economic contraction may increase the rate of default by borrowers, leading to an increase in losses on our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2008 we had $5.6 million outstanding in loans provided to customers to finance natural gas vehicle purchases. We may incur losses and use working capital, if we are unable to place with customers the natural gas vehicles that we or our business partners order from manufacturers. To ensure availability for our customers, from time to time we enter into binding purchase agreements for natural gas vehicles when there is a production lead time. Although we attempt to arrange for customers to purchase the vehicles before delivery to us, we may be unable to locate purchasers on a timely basis and consequently may need to take delivery of and title to the vehicles. These purchases would adversely affect our cash reserves until such time as we can sell the vehicles to our customers, and we may be forced to sell the vehicles at a loss. At December 31, 2008, we had $7.6 million in aggregate deposits outstanding on natural gas vehicles which are described below. In July 2006, we entered into an agreement with Inland Kenworth, Inc. (Inland) pursuant to which we agreed to deposit certain amounts with Inland, as security for a guarantee, to fund the acquisition by Kenworth Truck Company (Kenworth) of 100 LNG trucks. At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding $3.2 million of deposits under this agreement. We also entered into two deposit agreements with Westport in 2007 to facilitate the production of LNG fuel systems for installation in the tractors purchased by Inland. At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding a total of $3.0 million on deposits made to Westport under these agreements. Repayment of these deposits will occur incrementally upon the sale of the converted tractors to customers; however, to the extent an LNG fuel system incorporated into a tractor is not sold within 24 months of the effective date of the applicable deposit agreement (or such other time period as is agreed by both us and Westport), Westport is not obligated to repay any of the deposit with respect to such LNG fuel systems. In addition, we have approximately $1.4 million on deposit at December 31, 2008 to secure the availability of 57 Honda Civic natural gas vehicles 32 If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and other key personnel, our business would be harmed. Our ability to manage and expand our business depends significantly on the skills and services of our management team, each of whom may terminate his or her service with us at any time and none of whom are subject to non-compete restrictions. We believe the loss of one or more members of our management team would harm our business because few people have comparable experience working in the natural gas vehicle industry or managing companies similar to ours. Moreover, we expect our operations to grow, and to do so, we will need to hire additional personnel in all areas of our business, particularly in sales and marketing. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may be unable to attract or retain qualified personnel and expand our business as planned. We may have difficulty managing our planned growth. If our business grows as planned, our management team and our operational, financial and accounting systems will also need to be expanded. This expansion would result in increased expenses and may strain our resources. If we are unable to manage this growth, we may experience higher expenses, poor internal controls, employee attrition and customer dissatisfaction, any of which could harm our business. Additionally, we may find it difficult to maintain important aspects of our corporate culture, which could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, and otherwise adversely affect our future success. There are many risks associated with conducting operations in international markets. We are in the process of expanding our operations outside of the United States and Canada. For example, in August 2007, we executed a joint venture agreement with Energy Gas del Peru pursuant to which we built and operate a natural gas fueling station in Lima, Peru. Changes in local economic or political conditions in foreign countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities include the following: difficulties in managing international operations, including our ability to timely and cost effectively execute projects, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers that may restrict our ability to enter into new markets, governmental actions that result in the deprivation of contract rights, changes in political and economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, including civil uprisings, riots, kidnappings and terrorist acts, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, potentially adverse tax consequences, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or expropriation of property without fair compensation, difficulties in establishing new international offices and risks inherent in establishing new relationships in foreign countries, and the burden of complying with the various laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. Our future plans may involve expanding our business in international markets where we do not conduct business. The risks inherent in establishing new business ventures, especially in international markets where local customs, laws and business procedures present special challenges, may affect our ability to be successful in these ventures or avoid losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our business could be harmed. We protect our intellectual property through a combination of trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and seeking patents, when appropriate. Nonetheless, our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Enforcement of intellectual property rights against alleged infringers can sometimes lead to 33 costly litigation and counterclaims. Our inability to protect our proprietary information could harm our business. We have significant contracts with federal, state and local government entities, which are subject to unique risks. We have existing, and will continue to seek, long-term LNG and CNG station construction, maintenance and fuel sales contracts with various federal, state and local governmental bodies, which accounted for approximately two-thirds of our revenues from 2006 through 2008. In addition to our normal business risks, our contracts with these government entities are often subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control. Long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made. The termination of funding for a government program supporting any of our CNG or LNG operations could result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program, which could have a negative impact on our operations. In addition, government entities with whom we contract are often able to modify, curtail or terminate contracts with us without prior notice at their convenience, and are only liable for payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Modification, curtailment or termination of significant contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, many governmental entities are experiencing significant budget deficits as a result of the economic recession, which may reduce or curtail their ability to fund natural gas fuel programs, purchase natural gas vehicles or provide public transportation and services, which would harm our business. Our business is subject to a variety of governmental regulations that may restrict our business and may result in costs and penalties. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment and taxation, among others. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including assessment of monetary penalties and the imposition of remedial requirements. From time to time, as part of the regular overall evaluation of our operations, including newly acquired operations, we may be subject to compliance audits by regulatory authorities. In addition, any failure to comply with regulations related to the government procurement process at the federal, state or local level or restrictions on political activities and lobbying may result in administrative or financial penalties including being barred from providing services to governmental entities, which accounted for approximately two-thirds of our revenues from 2006 through 2008. In connection with our LNG liquefaction activities and the landfill gas processing facility operated by our joint-venture subsidiary, Dallas Clean Energy, LLC, we need or may need to apply for additional facility permits or licenses to address storm water or wastewater discharges, waste handling, and air emissions related to production activities or equipment operations. This may subject us to permitting conditions that may be onerous or costly. Compliance with laws and regulations and enforcement policies by regulatory agencies could require us to make material expenditures, which may distract our officers, directors and employees from the operation of our business. The requirements of being a public company, including the costs of complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), NASDAQ and other stock exchanges, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. 34 These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a public company, we have created additional board committees and have implemented a number of new corporate policies. In addition, we are incurring additional costs associated with our public company reporting. We also expect these new rules to make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage. Ensuring that we have adequate financial and accounting controls to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We are required to document and evaluate our internal controls in order to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these internal controls. Both we and our independent registered public accounting firm will continue to test our internal controls in connection with the Section 404 requirements and, as part of that documentation and testing, identify areas for further attention and improvement. Maintaining, and if necessary, improving our internal controls will likely involve substantial costs and take significant time to complete, which may distract our officers, directors and employees from the operation of our business. These efforts may not ultimately be effective to maintain adequate internal controls. Our accounting and financial reporting department may not have all of the necessary resources to ensure that we will not have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our system of internal control over financial reporting. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting may be limited by a variety of factors including: faulty human judgment and errors, omissions or mistakes, inappropriate management override of policies and procedures, and the possibility that any enhancements to disclosure controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate financial information. If we fail to maintain effective controls and procedures for financial reporting, we could be unable to provide timely and accurate financial information. In addition, investor perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may negatively affect our stock price. Our quarterly results of operations have not been predictable in the past and have fluctuated significantly and may not be predictable and may fluctuate in the future. Our quarterly results of operations have historically experienced significant fluctuations. Our net losses were $0.9 million, $3.6 million, $1.5 million, $2.9 million, $5.4 million, $2.4 million $10.6 million and $22.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007, September 30, 2007, December 31, 2007, March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008, September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our quarterly results of operations fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations historically have primarily been attributable to our derivative gains and losses and, in the quarter ending December 31, 2008, our increased expense associated with our support of Proposition 10; but also may be due to a number of other factors, including, but not limited to: our ability to increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers, the addition or loss of large customers, construction cost overruns, the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure, changes in the price of natural gas, changes in the prices of CNG and LNG relative to gasoline and diesel, changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors, the costs related to the acquisition of assets or businesses, regulatory changes, and geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. Investors in our stock should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance as our quarterly revenues and results of operations may vary significantly in the future. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. 35 The price of our common stock may be volatile as a result of market conditions unrelated to our company, and the value of your investment could decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to factors in the market beyond our control. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include: price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time, actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our results of operations, actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts, actual or anticipated developments in our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally, litigation involving us or our industry, domestic and international regulatory developments, general economic conditions and trends, widespread adoption of other alternative fuels and technologies, major catastrophic events or sales of large blocks of our stock. Since our initial public offering, which was completed in May 2007, the price of our common stock has ranged from an intra-day low of $3.23 to an intra-day high of $20.65 through March 13, 2009. Sales of outstanding shares of our stock into the market in the future could cause the market price of our stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. If our stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. At December 31, 2008, 50,238,212 shares of our common stock were outstanding. The 11,500,000 shares sold in our initial public offering in addition to the 4,419,192 shares of common stock and the 3,314,394 shares of common stock subject to outstanding warrants sold in our registered direct offering closed November 3, 2008, are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under federal securities laws unless purchased by our affiliates. Shares held by non-affiliates for more than six months may generally be sold without restriction, other than a current public information requirement, and may be sold freely without any restrictions after one year. All other outstanding shares of common stock may be sold under Rule 144 under the Securities Act, subject to applicable restrictions. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, there were 8,234,467 shares underlying outstanding options and 18,314,394 shares underlying outstanding warrants (including the 3,314,394 warrants sold in our registered direct offering which closed November 3, 2008). All shares subject to outstanding options and warrants are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various option and warrant agreements and Rule 144. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our stock could decline. Further, as of March 3, 2009, 16,539,720 shares of our stock held by our co-founder and board member T. Boone Pickens are subject to a pledge agreement with a bank. Should the bank be forced to sell the shares subject to the pledge, the trading price of our stock could also decline. If securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. We do not control these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. Further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 36 A majority of our stock is beneficially owned by a single stockholder whose interests may differ from yours and who will be able to exert significant influence over our corporate decisions, including a change of control. As of December 31, 2008, Boone Pickens and affiliates (including Madeleine Pickens, his wife) beneficially owned in the aggregate 54% of our outstanding common stock, inclusive of the 15,000,000 shares underlying a warrant held by Mr. Pickens. As a result, Mr. Pickens will be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. Mr. Pickens may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company, and might ultimately affect the market price of our stock. Conversely, this concentration may facilitate a change in control at a time when you and other investors may prefer not to sell. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt, provide that a special meeting of stockholders may only be called by our board of directors or our chief executive officer, provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws, and establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any "interested" stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an "interested" stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have not received written comments from the SEC staff more than 180 days before the end of our 2008 fiscal year. 