ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report and in any documents incorporated in this report by reference. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SERVICES & BRANDS We continue to evolve our business strategy and develop new brands and services, and prospects are difficult to evaluate. We are in varying development stages of our business, so our prospects must be considered in light of the many risks, uncertainties, expenses, delays, and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of development. Additionally, we have limited operating history of our owned websites in the United States market. Some of the risks and difficulties we expect to encounter include our ability to: · manage and implement new business strategies; · successfully commercialize and monetize our assets; · successfully attract advertisers for our owned and operated websites; · continue to raise additional working capital; · manage our expense structure as a U.S. public company including, without limitation, compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley and Dodd Frank Acts; · manage operating expenses; · establish and take advantage of strategic relationships; · manage and adapt to rapidly changing and expanding operations; · respond effectively to competitive developments; and · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. Because of our lack of operating history in the United States and the early stage of development of our business, we cannot be certain that our business strategy will be successful or that it will successfully address these risks. Any failure by us to successfully implement our new business plans could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our operating performance will suffer and our financial condition could be adversely affected. Substantial future growth will be required in order for us to realize our business objectives. To the extent we are capable of achieving this growth, it will place significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Additionally, this growth will require us to make significant expenditures, establish, train and manage a larger work force, and allocate valuable management resources. We must manage any such growth through appropriate systems and controls in each of these areas. If we do not manage the growth of our business effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The expansion of our Brands segments into new category verticals subjects us to additional business, legal, financial and competitive risks. A key component of our business strategy is to grow our network of owned and operated websites to cover a variety of category verticals to address consumer interests and needs. In doing so we will encounter a number of risks, including increased capital requirements, growth in our workforce, new competitors and development of new strategic relationships. We cannot ensure that our strategy will result in increased revenue or operating profit. Furthermore, growth into new areas may require changes to our cost structure, modifications to our infrastructure and exposure to new regulatory and legal risks. Our quarterly results of operations might fluctuate due to seasonality, which could adversely affect our growth rate and in turn the market price of our securities. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and will likely fluctuate in the future due to seasonal fluctuations in the level of Internet usage and interest in various topics of our Brands. Prolonged or severe decreases in usage during certain seasonal periods may adversely affect our growth rate and in turn the market price of our securities. In addition, we expect the revenues associated with our websites at www.irs.com, www.taxextension.com, and www.filelater.com to be largely seasonal in nature, with peak revenues occurring during January through April, corresponding to the U.S. tax season. 9 If we are unable to attract and retain visitors to our web business in a cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our primary strategy for attracting and retaining users to our websites is to provide content and community-focused digital experiences. The success of these efforts depends, in part, upon our ability to create and distribute high-quality content as well as to innovate and evolve our content and social media technology platforms at scale in a cost-effective manner. Failure to do so could adversely affect user experiences and reduce traffic to our owned and operated websites, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, our strategy could be flawed and might not result in the ability to attract and retain users in a cost-effective manner. A second strategy we utilize to attract traffic is the search engine optimization, (“SEO”), of our websites and the content published on them. SEO involves architecting websites with the objective of ranking well in unpaid search engine results. Our ability to successfully manage SEO efforts across our owned and operated websites is dependent on our timely and effective modification of SEO practices implemented in response to periodic changes in search engine algorithms and methodologies and changes in search query trends and our ability to offer websites and content responsive to ever-changing consumer interests and trends. Our failure to successfully manage our SEO strategy could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our owned and operated websites, or an inability to attract traffic to new websites that we launch which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if we succeed in attracting traffic to our owned and operated websites, we may not be successful in monetizing the traffic. Additionally, the costs of attracting and retaining users to our websites may exceed our ability to generate revenues from such activities, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a creator and a distributor of digital content, we face potential liability for legal claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we create or distribute, or that are accessible via our owned and operated websites. As a creator and distributor of original content and third-party provided content, we face potential liability for legal claims, including defamation, negligence, unlawful practice of a licensed profession, copyright or trademark infringement or other legal theories based on the nature, creation or distribution of this information, and under various laws, including the Lanham Act, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the Copyright Act. We may also be exposed to similar liability in connection with content that is posted to our owned and operated websites by users and other third parties through comments, profile pages, discussion forums and other social media features. In addition, it is also possible that visitors to our owned and operated websites could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance upon information provided on our owned and operated websites. Any of these claims could result in significant costs to investigate and defend, regardless of the merit of the claims. If we are not successful in our defense, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. While we run our content through a rigorous quality control process, there is no guarantee that we will avoid future liability and potential expenses for legal claims, which could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to liability for information displayed by advertisers on our websites, which may affect our business. Laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their advertisers and for the content of their advertisers’ listings are currently unsettled. It is unclear whether we could be subjected to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or claims based on other theories relating to the information we publish on our websites. These kinds of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services as well as other print publications in the past. We may not successfully avoid liability for unlawful activities carried out by advertisers displayed on our websites. If we are subjected to such lawsuits, it may adversely affect our business. In addition, much of the information on websites in our personal finance vertical that is provided by advertisers and collected from third parties relates to the rates, costs and features for various loan, depositary, personal credit and investment products offered by financial institutions, mortgage companies, investment companies, insurance companies and others participating in the consumer financial marketplace. We are exposed to the risk that some advertisers may provide us, or directly post on our websites, (i) inaccurate information about their product rates, costs and features, or (ii) rates, costs and features that are not available to all consumers. This could cause consumers to lose confidence in the information provided by advertisers on our websites, and cause certain advertisers to become dissatisfied with our websites, and result in lawsuits being filed against us. New regulations governing the Internet and e-commerce may negatively affect our business. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet or other online services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, and financial conditions and results of operations. The Federal Trade Commission has recently reviewed the way in which search engines disclose paid search practices to Internet users. In 2002, the FTC issued guidance recommending that all search engine companies ensure that all paid search 10 results are clearly distinguished from non-paid results, that the use of paid search is clearly and conspicuously explained and disclosed and that other disclosures are made to avoid misleading users about the possible effects of paid search listings on search results. The adoption of laws or regulations relating to placement of paid search advertisements or user privacy, defamation or taxation may inhibit the growth in use of the Internet, which in turn, could decrease the demand for our services and increase our cost of doing business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The application of new and existing laws and regulations to the Internet or other online services has had a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations in the past. For example, on April 17, 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1677, The Taxpayer Protection Act of 2007(“H.R. 1677”). Section 8 of H.R. 1677 would have amended Section 333, Title 31 of the U.S. Code to include Internet domain addresses in the prohibition on certain use of the U.S. Department of the Treasury names and symbols. Although the legislation was never passed by the Senate or signed into law and the bill ceased with the ending of the 110th Congress in January 2009, there is no guarantee that similar legislation won’t be introduced and passed into law by the current or future Congress. While the ultimate impact of any such proposed legislation is not presently determinable, if enacted, such legislation may adversely impact our overall operations. We own the Internet domain address US Tax Center at www.irs.com, which is an acronym commonly associated with the Internal Revenue Service, a division of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. While the bill was never passed into law, if enacted, the passage of such legislation could have severely adversely affected our use of our Internet domain address US Tax Center at www.irs.com as well as our overall operations. In the event a bill such as H.R. 1677 were to become law, we intend to be continue to be diligent in our communications with the Internal Revenue Service and Congress in an effort to mitigate any potential negative effects of such legislation. We are subject to the extensive regulations that govern a broker-dealer. MyStockFund Securities, Inc., one of our websites (MyStockFund.com), is a broker-dealer registered with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, and a member of a self-regulatory organization, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). Broker-dealers are subject to federal and state laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers’ funds and securities, minimum net capital requirements, record-keeping and retention, anti-money laundering, privacy laws, and the conduct of their directors, officers, employees and other associated persons. Violations of the federal and state laws and regulations governing a broker-dealers actions could result in civil and criminal liability and administrative liability in the form of censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators. We face intense competition from larger, more established companies, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could reduce demand for our services. We compete for Internet advertising revenues with the personal finance sections of general interest sites such as Bankrate.com, Yahoo!Finance.com, and Smartmoney.com, and we will compete for Internet advertising revenues with numerous websites focusing on the young adult demographic. Nearly all our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Our competitors may secure more favorable revenue arrangements with advertisers, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive growth strategies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we do. In addition, the Internet media and advertising industries continue to experience consolidation, including the acquisitions of companies offering finance related content and services and paid search services. Industry consolidation has resulted in larger, more established and well-financed competitors with a greater focus. If these industry trends continue, or if we are unable to compete in the Internet media and paid search markets, our financial results may suffer. Additionally, larger companies may implement policies and/or technologies into their search engines or software that make it less likely that consumers can reach our websites and less likely that consumers will click-through on sponsored listings from our advertisers. The implementation of such technologies could result in a decrease in our revenues. If we are unable to successfully compete against current and future competitors, our operating results will be adversely affected. Historically, a few of our advertising networks and direct advertisers have provided a substantial portion of our revenue; the loss of one of these partners may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We cannot assure you that, should agreements with our advertising networks, strategic sales and marketing partners, and /or direct advertisers fail to be renewed or should the contracts be terminated or modified in advance of their expiration, we will 11 be able to timely replace the sponsored listings they provide us. We have had similar agreements in the past that have failed to be renewed or been modified prior to their termination where our financial results were harmed. We may not succeed in marketing and monetizing our assets to potential customers or developing strategic partnerships for the distribution of our products and services. Our plans to market and monetize our assets in the United States are still relatively new, and we have limited experience in owning and operating websites in the United States. We may not be successful in establishing a customer base of our owned and operated websites. If we are not successful in developing, releasing and/or marketing these owned and operated websites and services on a profitable basis, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY We may not have sufficient liquidity to support our operations. As of December 31, 2013, the Company’s total cash and cash equivalents balance was approximately $1.3 million. The Company has incurred net losses and generated substantial negative cash flow from operations in the twelve months ended December 31, 2013 and in each fiscal year since its inception and has an accumulated deficit of $111.7 million as of December 31, 2013. The Company intends to fund its future operations through revenue growth in its Brands segment, particularly its personal finance and 18-to-34 year old lifestyle properties. However, absent any acquisitions of new businesses, the addition of new customers, or the material increase in revenue from its existing customers, current revenue growth may not be sufficient to sustain the Company's operations in the long term. As such, the Company may need to obtain additional equity financing and/or divest of certain assets or businesses, neither of which can be assured on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, any equity financing that might be obtained could substantially dilute existing stockholders. There is no certainty that the Company will be successful at raising capital, nor is there certainty around the amount of funds that may be raised. For further details regarding liquidity, refer to our "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in this Form 10-K. In addition, the success of the Company will be subject to performance of the markets and investor sentiment regarding the macro and micro economic conditions under which we operate including stock market volatility. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful at generating more revenues or selling any of its assets. Any failure by the Company to successfully implement these plans would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, including the possible inability to continue operations. Based on the Company’s current financial projections, the new Term Loan Agreements, conversion of the old Term Loan Agreements, and the reduction in expenses, all discussed above, the Company believes it has sufficient existing cash resources to fund operations through December 2014. However, projecting operating results is inherently uncertain. Accordingly, the Company’s cash resources could be fully utilized prior to December 2014. The market price of our stock is likely to be volatile and various factors could negatively affect the market price or market for our common stock. The market for and price of our common stock could be affected by the following factors: · general market and economic conditions; · our common stock has been thinly traded; and · minimal third party research is available regarding our company. Additionally, the terms of the Discovery Merger provided that payment to HowStuffWorks stockholders for a significant portion of HowStuffWorks’ ownership of our common stock would not be paid at the October 2007 closing of the transaction and instead are payable to HowStuffWorks’ former stockholders in three semi-annual installments. Discovery has distributed all such shares of Remark Media to the HowStuffWorks’ former stockholders. Accordingly, the amount of shares of our common stock Discovery owns has decreased. All of our rights to publish HowStuffWorks content will remain effective regardless of the number of shares Discovery owns in the future. As a result of such distributions, relative to the daily market trading volumes for our common stock, such stockholders may sell a significant number of shares. These factors could also affect our common stock, and depress the market price for our common stock or limit the market for resale of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, particularly in the recent stock market turmoil, and is also based on other factors outside of our control. 12 The anticipated benefits of the acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The acquisitions of Banks.com and Pop Factory involved the integration of companies that have previously operated independently with principal offices in different distinct locations. Significant management attention and resources have been and will be required to integrate the companies. Delays in this process could adversely affect the combined company's business, financial results, financial condition, and stock price following the merger. Even if the combined company were able to integrate the business operations successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration and that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. We have a history of operating losses and if we do not reach profitability, we may not be able to fund and operate our businesses. Although Remark Media was founded in 2006, our business strategy is still evolving, and we have a limited operating history. We are in varying development stages of our businesses, including online publishing and international and domestic digital markets, with a limited operating history upon which investors and others can evaluate our current business and prospects. We have had operating losses in each year of our operations. If we are not able to reach profitability, we may not be able to fund our operations in the future. During 2013, we significantly increased our revenues compared to 2012 from $0.5 million to $2.0 million. The increase was principally due to the acquisitions of Pop Factory and Banks.com. The Company has also implemented multiple cost saving measures in 2013. However, we cannot be certain that our business strategy will be successful or that it will successfully address these risks. Any failure by us to successfully implement our new business plans would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Acquisitions, business combinations and other transactions present integration risk and may have negative consequences for our business and our stockholders. We plan to continuously monitor certain strategic acquisition opportunities. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations may result in unforeseen difficulties and liabilities and may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. Difficulties that we encounter in integrating the operations of acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, we may not realize any of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and integration costs may exceed anticipated amounts. Our investment in Sharecare’s equity securities involves a substantial degree of risk. Sharecare is a recently formed company with limited history of operations. Its prospects must be considered in light of the many risks, uncertainties, expenses, delays and difficulties encountered by companies in their early stages of development. Moreover, Sharecare operates in the highly competitive Internet industry and might not achieve profitability or consumer acceptance in the near term, if ever. Our investment in Sharecare’s equity securities is illiquid and might fail to appreciate and might decline in value or become worthless. It is unlikely our Sharecare equity securities will pay current dividends, and our ability to realize a return on our investment, as well as to recover our investment, will be dependent on the success of Sharecare. Even if Sharecare is successful, our ability to realize the value of our investment might be limited. Because it is a private company, there is no public market for Sharecare’s securities, and the Sharecare securities are subject to restrictions on resale that might prevent us from selling these securities during periods in which it would be advantageous to do so. As a result, we might have to wait for a liquidity event, such as a public offering or the sale of Sharecare, to realize the value of our investment, if any. A liquidity event is not expected in the near term. We accounted for our investment in Sharecare under the equity method of accounting through November 2012, under which we record our proportionate share of Sharecare’s net income or loss. As of December 2012, we moved to the cost method. It is likely that Sharecare will need to raise additional capital, or make additional acquisitions, and our equity position in Sharecare may be diluted if Sharecare issues additional equity, options, or warrants. If Sharecare makes a capital call of its existing equity holders, our position may be diluted if we choose not to contribute additional capital. Our interest ownership in the common stock of Sharecare was 8.19% at December 31, 2013. If we do not scale and adapt our business to technological needs of increased traffic and technological changes, it could cause inefficiencies or disruptions on our websites and loss of users, contributors, and advertisers. As our business grows, our technological and network infrastructure must keep in-line with our traffic and advertiser needs. Future demand is difficult to forecast and we may not be able to adequately handle large increases unless we spend substantial amounts to augment our ability to handle increased traffic. Additionally, the implementation of increased network 13 capacity contains some execution risks and may lead to ineffectiveness or inefficiency. This could lead to a diminished experience for our consumers and advertisers and damage our reputation and relationship with them, leading to lower marketability and negative effects on our operating results. Moreover, the pace of innovative change in network technology is fast and if we do not keep up, we may lag behind competitors. The costs of upgrading and improving technology could be substantial and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are vulnerable to failures of third party network and technology providers who may fail to provide adequate services in the future. This could cause technical problems or failure of our websites or traffic, which could inhibit our revenues or damage our reputation and relationships with users, advertisers, and content providers. We rely on many third party businesses for technological, network, and expert services. Our ability to operate successfully depends on the successful operation of these third party businesses, which carry their own risks. If one of our third party vendors fails to deliver expected services, our websites and business could suffer operating problems or temporary failures. If there is a problem or failure with our websites, it could hurt our ability to advertise and damage our reputation with consumers and advertisers. We utilize third party services to host our websites. If one of these third parties experiences a failure, it could cause the failure of our websites, which may cause material adverse effects to our business. Additionally, a termination of our hosting agreements or failure to renew on favorable terms could affect our business. Shifting hosting services could require management focus and time and potentially disrupt operations of our websites. In addition, as operators of content websites reliant on user traffic to sell advertising, our users must have adequate and functioning Internet access. Technical problems with Internet access providers such as cable, DSL satellite or mobile companies may inhibit user access to our websites and slow traffic. Such events as power outages caused by blackouts, brown outs, storm outages or other power issues could also cause loss of user access to our websites. Our network operations may be vulnerable to hacking, viruses and other disruptions, which may make our products and services less attractive and reliable. User traffic to our owned and operated websites could decline if any well-publicized compromise of our security occurs. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in our service. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect our owned and operated websites against hackers. If our security measures are breached as a result of third party action, employee error or otherwise, we could incur liability and our reputation would be damaged, which could lead to the loss of current and potential customers. If we experience any breaches of our network security or sabotage, we might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy, protect against or alleviate these and related problems, and we may not be able to remedy these problems in a timely manner, or at all. Because techniques used by outsiders to obtain unauthorized network access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. We cannot ensure that any measures we may take will be effective. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, as well as materially damage our reputation and decrease our user traffic. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it is possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws of the PRC and Brazil are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our brands and services will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may in the future be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the 14 intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. In particular, if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against us may result in substantial monetary liability or may materially disrupt the conduct of our business. If we are not able to attract and retain key management, we may not successfully integrate the acquired assets into our historical business or achieve our other business objectives. We will depend upon the contributions of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, for our future business success. The loss of the service of any of the key members of our senior management may significantly delay or prevent the integration of the contributed assets and other business objectives. We could incur asset impairment charges for intangible assets or other long-lived assets. We have intangible assets and other long-lived assets, therefore future lower than anticipated financial performance or changes in estimates and assumptions, which in many cases require significant judgment, could result in impairment charges. We test intangible assets that are determined to have an indefinite life for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and assess whether factors or indicators, such as unfavorable variances from established business plans, significant changes in forecasted results or volatility inherent to external markets and industries, become apparent that would require an interim test. Adverse changes in the operating environment and related key assumptions used to determine the fair value of our indefinite lived intangible assets or declines in the value of our common stock may result in future impairment charges for a portion or all of these assets. In December 2012, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.4 million resulting from abandoning certain projects in our Content and Platform Services business. In September 2011, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.4 million resulting from our analysis of a triggering event tied to the strategic reductions in investment in our China operations to better align expenses to the revenues being generated at that time. If any of the assumptions used in the analysis change in the future, an impairment charge for a portion or all of the assets may be required. In addition, in December 2010, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.5 million, primarily because of changes in our assumptions as to the time and cost required to obtain licenses to operate in China similar to the ones we currently hold. An additional impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, but would not be expected to have an impact on our cash flows or liquidity. As of December 31, 2013, we evaluated our portfolio of intangible assets and other long-lived assets for impairment and determined that no impairment was deemed necessary. Our Information Technology Infrastructure is cloud-based. In December 2013, we converted from hardware storage in data room to a cloud-based infrastructure. Like many companies using the cloud, we continually strive to meet industry information security standards relevant to our business. We continuously perform vulnerability assessments, review log/access, perform system maintenance, and manage network perimeter protection. A breach of external perimeter may lead to the loss of confidential information. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price has fluctuated considerably and is likely to remain volatile, in part due to the limited market for our common stock Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. From January 1, 2013, through March 30, 2014, the high and low sales prices for our common stock were $6.10 and $1.12, respectively. There is a limited public market for our common stock, and we cannot provide assurances that a more active trading market will develop. As a result of low trading volume in our common stock, the purchase or sale of a relatively small number of shares could result in significant share price fluctuations. The concentration of our stock ownership may limit individual stockholder ability to influence corporate matters. HowStuffWorks, a subsidiary of Discovery, beneficially owns a 6.53% of our outstanding common stock and is a party of a stockholders’ agreement. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kai-Shing Tao may be deemed to beneficially own 3,890,402 shares or 34% of our common stock including 3,556,372 beneficially owned by Digipac, LLC, of which he is the manager and a member. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, and might affect the prevailing market price for our securities. 15 If these stockholders act together, they may be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all of our stockholders. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of the Company more difficult, which acquisition may be beneficial to stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware ("DGCL"), may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of the Company, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include the following: only our Board of Directors may call special meetings of our stockholders; our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; we have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval. Additionally, Section 2013 of the DGCL prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. We have not opted out of the restriction under Section 2013, as permitted under DGCL. The concentration of our stock ownership, as well as our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws, stockholders agreement and Delaware law contain provisions that may make our acquisition more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, which could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving our change of control. As of December 31, 2013, Kai-Shing Tao, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, together, with all of his managed and controlled entities, including Digipac, LLC and Pacific Star Management, LP, holds approximately 34% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, it will be difficult for our other stockholders to approve a takeover of us without cooperation of Mr. Tao. In addition, Digipac, LLC issued a $3.5 million convertible promissory note on January 29, 2014 that may convert both the unpaid, accrued interest and principal at a rate of $5.03 into shares of the Company's common stock. As of March 31, 2014, if Digipac elected to convert its outstanding principal and accrued interest into shares of common stock - which also have registration and piggyback rights - the transaction would result in an additional 703 thousand of common stock, representing an additional 4% of equity interest and increasing his ownership position from 34% to 38%. Furthermore, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions, including but not limited to the following provisions: · only our Board of Directors may call special meetings of our stockholders; · our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; · we have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; · SEC Rule 14a-8 requires that we receive notice of stockholder proposals at least 120 days prior to the date of our proxy statement for the previous year’s annual meeting or we do not have to include them in our proxy materials; and · for stockholder proposals not requested to be included in our proxy materials under Rule 14a-8, we require advance notice of not less than 60 nor more than 90 days prior to a meeting for the proposal to be introduced and considered. In addition, the stockholders agreement gives HowStuffWorks the right to designate nominees to our Board of Directors. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change of control of us. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for individual investors and other stockholders to cause us to take other corporate actions individual investors and other stockholders desire. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may also delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interest. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a publicly-held Delaware corporation 16 and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us that our stockholders consider to be in their best interest. A significant number of additional shares of our common stock may be issued upon the exercise or conversion of existing securities, which issuances would substantially dilute existing stockholders and may depress the market price of our common stock As of December 31, 2013, we had convertible notes and accrued interest convertible into 2,521,929 shares of common stock, and options and warrants to purchase approximately 284,329 shares of common stock outstanding. The issuance of these shares of common stock would substantially dilute the proportionate ownership and voting power of existing stockholders, and their issuance, or the possibility of their issuance, may depress the market price of our common stock. If we fail to meet all listing requirements, we might not be able to remain listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market. On May 21, 2013, The NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) notified the Company that it did not comply with Listing Rule 5550(b) (the “Rule”), which requires a minimum $2,500,000 stockholders’ equity, $35,000,000 market value of listed securities, or $500,000 net income from continuing operations. As a result of the conversion of certain convertible notes into equity; on November 12, 2013, the Company believes it has regained compliance with the stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing set forth in Listing Rule 5550(b). There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to satisfy the requirements to maintain a continued listing on The NADAQ Capital Market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 