Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this report. This report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. We generally identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “could,” “intends,” “target,” “projects,” “contemplates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other similar words. These statements are only predictions. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our customers’ or our industry’s actual results, levels of activity, performance or 10 Table of Contents achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, to differ. “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business,” as well as other sections in this report, discuss some of the factors that could contribute to these differences. The forward-looking statements made in this report relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. This report also contains market data related to our business and industry. These market data include projections that are based on a number of assumptions. If these assumptions turn out to be incorrect, actual results may differ from the projections based on these assumptions. As a result, our markets may not grow at the rates projected by these data, or at all. The failure of these markets to grow at these projected rates may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Business We will need to raise additional capital to meet our business requirements in the future and such capital raising may be costly or difficult to obtain and could dilute current stockholders’ ownership interests. We will need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We raised approximately $9.9 million in net proceeds in our June 2007 private placement, approximately $3.5 million in net proceeds in our May 2008 private placement, approximately $5.5 million in net proceeds in our private placement completed in June and August 2009, approximately $4.5 million in net proceeds in our private placement that completed in December 2009 and January 2010, approximately $6.8 million in net proceeds in our registered offering that completed in July 2010 and approximately $27.5 million in net proceeds in our private placement that completed in May 2011(the “May 2011 Private Placement”). We have also raised approximately $1.8 million net of origination fees from a term loan in December 2010 (repaid in connection with the May 2011 Private Placement) and approximately $8.8 million in net proceeds from the issuance of convertible preference shares in our Malaysian subsidiary. We expect that such proceeds, together with our income, will fund our operations until 2013. We will need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings to meet various business objectives including, but not limited to: • pursuing growth opportunities, including more rapid expansion; • acquiring complementary businesses; • making capital improvements to improve our infrastructure; • hiring qualified management and key employees; • developing new services, programming or products; • responding to competitive pressures; • complying with regulatory requirements such as licensing and registration; and • maintaining compliance with applicable laws. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or equity backed securities may dilute current stockholders’ ownership percentages and could also result in a decrease in the market value of our equity securities. The terms of any securities issued by us in future capital transactions may be more favorable to new investors, and may include preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, which may have a further dilutive effect on the holders of any of our securities then outstanding. Furthermore, any additional debt or equity financing that we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to obtain such additional financing on a timely basis, we may have to curtail our development activities and growth plans and/or be forced to sell assets, perhaps on unfavorable terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and ultimately could be forced to discontinue our operations and liquidate, in which event it is unlikely that stockholders would receive any distribution on their shares. See 11 Table of Contents “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” below. Further, we may not be able to continue operating if we do not generate sufficient revenues from operations needed to stay in business. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we issue, such as convertible promissory notes and warrants, which may adversely impact our financial condition. We are highly leveraged. In the May 2011 Private Placement, we issued convertible promissory notes in the initial aggregate face value of $15,275,000, which accrue interest at a rate of 5% per annum through November 27, 2014, and which had accrued a total of $460,383 in interest added to principal as of December 31, 2011. The principal, including the accrued interest added to principal under these convertible promissory notes, is convertible into our common stock at $0.57 per share. These securities may have negative consequences for us, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • limiting funds available to us because we may need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest expense, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market and industry conditions; and • limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged and that may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns. We have experienced a decline in sales, and we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to achieve profitable operations. Our future is dependent upon the success of the current and future generations of one or more of the products we sell or propose to sell, including the SmartChip System. Historically, there have been limited sales of any of our products, and we experienced no system sales during the nine months ended December 31, 2011. If future market acceptance of our products is poor, we will not be able to generate adequate sales to achieve profitable operations. We have a limited history of commercial sales of systems and consumable products, and our success depends on our ability to develop commercially successful products and on market acceptance of our new and relatively unproven technologies. We may not possess all of the resources, capability and intellectual property rights necessary to develop and commercialize all of the products or services that may result from our technologies. Our long-term viability growth and profitability will depend upon successful testing, approval and commercialization of the SmartChip System incorporating our technology resulting from our research and development activities. Adverse or inconclusive results in the development and testing of our SmartChip System could significantly delay or ultimately preclude commercialization of our technology. Accordingly, there is only a limited basis upon which to evaluate our business and prospects. An investor in our Company should consider the challenges, expenses, and difficulties we will face as an emerging company seeking to develop and manufacture a new product in a relatively new market. We must conduct a substantial amount of additional research and development before some of our products will be ready for sale. We currently have fewer resources available for research and development activities than many of our competitors. We may not be able to develop or launch new products in a timely manner, or at all, or they may not meet customer requirements or be of sufficient quality or at a price that enables us to compete effectively in the marketplace. Challenges frequently encountered in connection with the development or early commercialization of products and services using new and relatively unproven technologies might limit our ability to develop and successfully commercialize these products and services. In addition, we may need to enter into agreements to obtain the intellectual property rights necessary to commercialize some of our products or services, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. 12 Table of Contents We have a history of operating losses which may continue, in which case we may not be able to reach profitability. We have a history of losses and may continue to incur operating and net losses for the foreseeable future. We incurred a net loss of $13.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $56.4 million. We have not achieved operating profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We may not be able to reach a level of revenue to achieve profitability. To date, our revenues have been insufficient to achieve our business plan. Our revenues were $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and $0.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. If our revenues grow slower than anticipated, or if operating expenses exceed expectations, then we may not be able to achieve profitability in the near future or at all, which may depress our common stock price. We have a limited operating history for investors to evaluate our business. We have had limited operations in the genetic analysis segment of the life science industry. Since we are a company with a limited operating history developing products focused on the analysis of genetic function and variation, it is difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business. Our future operations and growth will likely depend on our ability to fully develop and market our SmartChip products and services. Our proposed operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in light of the expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the formation of any new business, as well as those risks that are specific to the life science industry. In evaluating us, investors should consider the delays, expenses, problems and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies developing markets for new products, services and technologies. We may never overcome these obstacles and become profitable. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets may significantly affect our ability to raise additional capital. The ongoing worldwide financial and credit crisis may continue indefinitely. Because of severely reduced market liquidity, we may not be able to raise additional capital when we need it. Because the future of our business will depend on the completion of one or more investment transactions for which, most likely, we will need additional capital, we may not be able to complete such transactions or acquire revenue producing assets. As a result, we may not be able to generate income and, to conserve capital, we may be forced to curtail our current business activities or cease operations entirely. Currency risk related to obligations and expenses denominated in Malaysian Ringgit could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. All of the convertible preference shares (“CPS”) issued by our Malaysian subsidiary, WGBM, were issued in consideration for Malaysian Ringgit, and significant amounts of this subsidiary’s expenses are paid for in this currency. At December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $1.4 million in assets in Malaysia. Fluctuations in the exchange rate could negatively impact our business operating results and financial condition by resulting in exchange losses or increased expenses. Translation adjustments in any particular reporting period could significantly affect, positively or negatively, our reported operating results. Because our business depends on research and development spending levels for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic and governmental research institutions, our success and our operating results will substantially depend on these customers. We expect that our revenues in the foreseeable future will be derived primarily from products and services provided to a relatively small number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic, governmental and other research institutions. Our success will depend upon their demand for and use of our products and services. Our operating results may fluctuate substantially due to reductions and delays in research and development expenditures by these customers. For example, reductions in capital or operating expenditures by these customers may result in lower than expected instrumentation sales and similarly, reductions in operating expenditures by these customers could result in lower than expected sales by us. We expect that our results of operations will fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and service projects, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, the timing and amount of government grant funding programs and other unpredictable 13 Table of Contents factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. Given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue and/or a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. If revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to achieve and maintain profitability. Any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above could adversely affect our revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenues. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. If our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price probably would decline. We may encounter difficulties in managing our expected growth, which could increase our losses. We expect to experience rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans, which will place a strain on our human and capital resources. If we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our losses could increase. Our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. If we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. Failure to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees will further strain our human resources and could impede our growth. Our financial condition could be adversely affected in the event of uninsured or inadequately insured loss or damage. We may not be able to obtain insurance policies on terms affordable to us that would adequately insure our business and property against damage, loss or claims by third parties. To the extent our business or property suffers any damages, losses or claims by third parties, which are not covered or adequately covered by insurance, the financial condition of our Company may be materially adversely affected. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. We are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including our chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief scientific officer and chief financial officer. The loss of any of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing and technical support. We compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. Competition for these individuals, particularly in the San Francisco Bay area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. Failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. Our planned activities will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products developed through our technologies, including the life sciences and healthcare industries. Thus, we will need to add new personnel, including management, and develop the expertise of existing management. The failure to do so could impair the growth of our business. Corporate governance rules, including those contained in and issued under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may make it difficult for us to retain or attract qualified officers and directors, which could adversely affect the management of our business and our ability to obtain or retain listing of our common stock. We may be unable to attract and retain those qualified officers, directors and members of board committees required to provide for our effective management because of the changes in the rules and regulations that govern publicly held 14 Table of Contents companies, including, but not limited to, certifications by principal executive officers. The enactment of Sarbanes-Oxley has resulted in the issuance of a series of rules and regulations and the strengthening of existing rules and regulations by the SEC, as well as the adoption of more stringent rules by the stock exchanges. The perceived increased personal risk associated with these recent changes may deter qualified individuals from accepting roles as directors and executive officers. Further, some of these recent changes heighten the requirements for board or committee membership, particularly with respect to an individual’s independence and level of experience in finance and accounting matters. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining directors with the requisite qualifications. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified officers and directors, the management of our business and our ability to obtain or retain the listing of our common stock on any stock exchange (assuming we elect to seek and are successful in obtaining such listing) could be adversely affected. We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our wholly owned subsidiaries to meet our obligations. After the Merger, we became a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of Wafergen, Inc. All our operations are still conducted by this company and our other wholly owned subsidiaries. We currently expect that the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries will primarily be retained and used by them in their operations, including servicing any debt obligations they may have now or in the future. All of our former liabilities survived the Merger and there may be undisclosed liabilities that could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Pursuant to the Merger, we acquired the business of Wafergen as our sole line of business, and accordingly are not pursuing our prior business. Although due diligence activities were performed on us and Wafergen prior to the Merger, the due diligence process may not have revealed all liabilities (actual or contingent) of us or Wafergen that existed or which may arise in the future relating to our activities before the consummation of the Merger. Notwithstanding that all of our then-known liabilities were transferred to La Burbuja Leaseco pursuant to the split-off in connection with the Merger, it is possible that claims for liabilities may still be made against us, which we will be required to defend or otherwise resolve. The provisions and terms of the merger agreement and split-off may not be sufficient to protect us from claims and liabilities and any breaches of related representations and warranties. Although escrow provisions and limited post-closing adjustments in the merger agreement are available to the stockholders of Wafergen and our pre-Merger stockholders, there is no comparable protection offered to our other stockholders. Any liabilities remaining from our pre-Merger company or Wafergen, Inc. could harm our financial condition. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or detect fraud. Consequently, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting and this may decrease the trading price of our common stock. We must maintain effective disclosure and internal controls to provide reliable financial reports. We have been assessing our controls to identify areas that need improvement. Based on our evaluation as of December 31, 2011, we concluded that there was a material weakness in our internal controls and procedures as of December 31, 2011. We are in the process of implementing improvements to our controls, but have not yet completed implementing these changes. Failure to implement these changes to our controls or any others that we identify as necessary to maintain an effective system of such controls could harm our operating results and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Any such loss of confidence would have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Because we are not yet required to comply with rules requiring the adoption of certain corporate governance measures, our stockholders have limited protections against interested director transactions, conflicts of interest and similar matters. Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as rule changes proposed and enacted by the SEC, the New York and American Stock Exchanges and The NASDAQ Stock Market, as a result of Sarbanes-Oxley, require the implementation of various measures relating to corporate governance. These measures are designed to enhance the integrity of corporate management and the securities markets and apply to securities which are listed on those exchanges. Because we are not presently required to comply with many of the corporate governance provisions, we have not yet adopted these measures. Until we comply with the corporate governance measures adopted by the national securities exchanges after the enactment of Sarbanes-Oxley, regardless of whether such compliance is required, the absence of standards of corporate governance may leave our stockholders without protections against interested director transactions, conflicts of interest and similar matters 15 Table of Contents and investors may be reluctant to provide us with funds in the future if we determine it is necessary to raise additional capital. We intend to comply with all applicable corporate governance measures relating to director independence once applicable. Litigation or other proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services or adversely impact our stock price. Our commercial success depends in part on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties and the ability to protect our own intellectual property. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization even if we are not. As we enter new markets, we expect that competitors will likely assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into those markets. Third parties such as Life Technologies Corporation, the Roche family of companies, Biometra Biomedizinische Analytik GmbH, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., Eppendorf AG, Enzo Biochem, Inc., Affymetrix, Inc., Illumina, Inc., Agilent Technologies, Inc., GE Healthcare, Beckman Coulter, Inc., Qiagen N.V., Idaho Technology, Inc., PerkinElmer, Inc., Fluidigm Corporation, Cepheid, Pacific Biosciences of California, Inc., the Exiqon family of companies, Luminex Corporation, and others may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents and claim that manufacture, use and/or sale of our technologies, methods or products infringes these patents. We could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against these claims even if we are eventually successful in defending ourselves against these claims. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to further develop, commercialize, manufacture, use and sell methods and products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from making, using or selling certain methods and/or products. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all. In that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products could materially affect our ability to grow and to attain profitability. Our proprietary intellectual property rights may not adequately protect our products and technologies. Although we have filed a number of United States and international patent applications, we have three issued patents, which do not cover all of our products and technologies. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for our products and technologies. Patent law relating to claims in the technology fields in which we operate is uncertain, so we cannot be assured the patent rights we have, or may obtain in future, will be valuable or enforceable. We may only be able to protect products and technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep a competitive advantage. The patent positions of life sciences companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents has emerged to date in the United States. The laws of some countries other than the United States do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or pharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of any patents we may obtain in such countries. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. For example: • we might not have been the first to conceive or reduce to practice one or more inventions disclosed in our pending patent applications; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; 16 Table of Contents • others may independently develop similar or alternative products and technologies or duplicate any of our products and technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents, and even if they issue as patents, they may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, and/or may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary products and technologies that are patentable; and • third-party patents may have an adverse effect on our ability to continue to grow our business. We have applied, and continue to apply, for patents covering our intellectual property (e.g., products and technologies and uses thereof), as we deem appropriate. However, we may fail to apply for patents on products and/or technologies in a timely fashion or at all. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we attempt to use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. If we were to attempt to enforce a claim that a third-party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it could be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome could be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets than courts inside the United States. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, it may be difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property and our business could be harmed. If we are not able to defend the patent or trade secret protection position of our products and technologies, then we may not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing products, and we may not generate enough revenue from product sales to justify the cost of development of our products and to achieve or maintain profitability. We may be unable to protect the intellectual property rights of the third parties from whom we license certain of our intellectual property or with whom we have entered into other strategic relationships, which could negatively impact our competitive advantage. None of our intellectual property rights are currently licensed from third parties but, in the future, we may have to license intellectual property from key strategic partners. We may become reliant upon such third parties to protect their intellectual property rights to any licensed technology. Such third parties may not protect the intellectual property rights that we license from them and we may be unable defend such intellectual property rights on our own or we may have to undertake costly litigation to defend the intellectual property rights of such third parties. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have proprietary rights to any of the intellectual property that we license from such third parties or otherwise have the right to use through similar strategic relationships. Any loss or limitations on use with respect to our right to use such intellectual property licensed from third parties or otherwise obtained from third parties or with whom we have entered into strategic relationships could negatively impact our competitive advantage. We expect intense competition in our target markets, which could render our products and/or technologies obsolete, result in significant price reductions or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. This would limit our ability to compete and achieve and maintain profitability. If we cannot continuously develop and commercialize new products, our revenue may not grow as intended. Future competition will likely come from existing competitors as well as other companies seeking to develop new technologies for analyzing genetic information, such as next generation sequencing. Some of our competitors have various products and/or methodologies for gene detection, expression, characterization, and/or analyses that may be competitive with our products and/or methodologies. In addition, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have significant needs for genomic information and may choose to develop or acquire competing technologies to meet these needs. In the molecular diagnostics field, competition will likely come from established diagnostic companies, companies developing and marketing DNA probe tests for genetic and other diseases and other companies conducting research on new technologies to ascertain and analyze genetic information. Further, in the event that we develop new technology and products that compete with existing technology and products of well-established companies, there can be no guarantee that the marketplace will readily adopt any such new technology and products that we may introduce in the future. The market for genetic research and molecular diagnostic products is highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share. Established genetic research and diagnostic companies also have an installed base of 17 Table of Contents instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories. In addition, these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies which provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests. We may not be able to compete effectively with these companies. Our manufacturing capacity may limit our ability to sell our products. There are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities and we may not be able to increase our capacity in a timely manner. For example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facility and launch new products. As a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. Due to the intricate nature of manufacturing products, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products, or to produce them economically, prevent us from achieving expected performance levels or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers. If we are unable to develop and maintain our manufacturing capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. We currently possess only one facility capable of manufacturing our products and services for both sale to our customers and internal use. If a natural disaster were to significantly damage our facility or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, these events could prevent us from developing and manufacturing our products and services. If our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it would adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and may prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. Our reliance on outside manufacturers and suppliers to provide certain instruments could subject us to risks that may harm our business. From time to time we may change manufacturers, and any new manufacturer engaged by us may not perform as expected. If our vendors experience shortages or delays in their manufacture of our instruments, or if we experience quality problems with our vendors, then our shipment schedules could be significantly delayed or costs significantly increased. Certain of our instruments may be manufactured by a single vendor, which could magnify the risk of shortages. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. As we pursue our business plan, we will become subject to a variety of federal, state and municipal environmental, health and safety laws based on our use of hazardous materials in both our manufacturing and research and development operations. These laws and regulations can often require expensive compliance procedures or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations can result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions and/or operational shutdown. Furthermore, we may become liable for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination, whether intentional or unintentional, and we could be responsible for damages related to the clean-up of such contamination or individual injury caused by such contamination. We may also be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials as a result of such contamination. Some of these matters may require expending significant amounts for investigation, cleanup or other costs. Events such as these could negatively impact our financial position. Our sales, marketing and technical support organization may limit our ability to sell our products. We currently have limited resources available for sales and marketing and technical support services as compared to some of our primary competitors. In order to effectively commercialize our gene expression systems and other products to follow, we will need to expand our sales, marketing and technical support staff both domestically and internationally. We may not be successful in establishing or maintaining either a direct sales force or distribution arrangements to market our products and services. In addition, we compete primarily with much larger companies that have larger sales and distribution staffs and a significant installed base of products in place, and the efforts from a limited sales and marketing force may not be sufficient to build the market acceptance of our products required to support continued growth of our business. 18 Table of Contents We may be exposed to liability due to product defects. The risk of product liability claims is inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of research products for therapeutic and diagnostic development. We may seek to acquire additional insurance for clinical liability risks. We may not be able to obtain such insurance or general product liability insurance on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. A product liability claim or recall could negatively impact our financial position. Risks Related to Our Industry Our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. We design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries. The usefulness of our technology depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. We are initially focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely gene expression profiling. This market is new and emerging, and may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach its full potential. Other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. Also, researchers may not seek or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information through the analysis of genetic variation and biological function. In addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. If useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. We may not be able to deliver acceptable products to our customers due to the rapidly evolving nature of genetic sequence information upon which our products are based. The genetic sequence information upon which we may rely to develop and manufacture our products is contained in a variety of public and private databases throughout the world. These databases are rapidly expanding and evolving. In addition, the accuracy of such databases and resulting genetic research is dependent on various scientific interpretations, and it is not expected that global genetic research efforts will result in standardized genetic sequence databases for particular genomes in the near future. Although we have implemented ongoing internal quality control efforts to help ensure the quality and accuracy of our products, the fundamental nature of our products requires us to rely on genetic sequence databases and scientific interpretations which are continuously evolving. As a result, these variables may cause us to develop and manufacture products that incorporate sequence errors or ambiguities. The magnitude and importance of these errors depends on multiple and complex factors that would be considered in determining the appropriate actions required to remedy any inaccuracies. Our inability to timely deliver acceptable products as a result of these factors would likely adversely affect our relationship with customers, and could negatively impact our financial condition. We face risks associated with technological obsolescence and emergence of standardized systems for genetic analysis. High throughput genetic analyses and quantitative detection methodologies (including, for example, PCR) is undergoing rapid evolution and technological changes. New technologies, techniques or products could emerge which might allow the packaging and analysis of genomic information at densities similar to, or even higher than, our existing or future technology. Other companies may begin to offer products that are directly competitive with, or are technologically superior to, our products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our technological advantages over emerging technologies in the future. Over time, we will need to respond to technological innovation in a rapidly changing industry. Standardization of tools and systems for genetic research is still ongoing and there can be no assurance that our products will emerge as the standard for genetic research. The emergence of competing technologies and systems as market standards for genetic research may result in our products becoming uncompetitive which would have an adverse effect on our business. Our success depends on the continuous development of new products and our ability to manage the transition from our older products to new products. We compete in markets that are new, intensely competitive, highly fragmented and rapidly changing, and many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. In 19 Table of Contents addition, many current and potential competitors have greater name recognition, more extensive customer bases and access to proprietary genetic content. The continued success of our products will depend on our ability to produce products with smaller feature sizes and create greater information capacity at our current or lower costs. The successful development, manufacture and introduction of our new products is a complicated process and depend on our ability to manufacture and supply enough products in sufficient quantity and quality and at acceptable cost in order to meet customer demand. If we fail to keep pace with emerging technologies or are unable to develop, manufacture and introduce new products, we will become uncompetitive, our pricing and margins will decline, and our business will suffer. Our failure to successfully manage the transition between our older products and new products may adversely affect our financial results. As we introduce new or enhanced products, we must successfully manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and provide sufficient supplies of new products to meet customer demands. When we introduce new or enhanced products, we face numerous risks relating to product transitions, including the inability to accurately forecast demand and difficulties in managing different sales and support requirements due to the type or complexity of the new products. Ethical, legal and social concerns surrounding the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products. Genetic testing has raised ethical issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. For these reasons, governmental authorities and others may call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible. Any of these scenarios could reduce the potential markets for our products. Risks Related to Our Organization Even though we are not a California corporation, our common stock could still be subject to a number of key provisions of the California General Corporation Law. Under Section 2115 of the California General Corporation Law ("CGCL"), corporations not organized under California law may still be subject to a number of key provisions of the CGCL. This determination is based on whether the corporation has significant business contacts with California and if more than 50% of its voting securities of record are held by persons having addresses in California. In the immediate future, the majority of our business operations, revenue and payroll will be conducted in, derived from, and paid to residents of California. Therefore, depending on our ownership, we could be subject to some provisions of the CGCL. Among the more important provisions are those relating to the election and removal of directors, cumulative voting, standards of liability and indemnification of directors, distributions, dividends and repurchases of shares, stockholder meetings, approval of some corporate transactions, dissenters’ and appraisal rights, and inspection of corporate records. If we are required to comply with these provisions, this compliance could cause us to incur additional administrative and legal expenses and divert our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business. Because we have become public by means of a reverse merger, we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms. There may be risks associated with our becoming a public company through a “reverse merger.” Securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of us since there is no incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. No assurance can be given that brokerage firms will, in the future, want to conduct any secondary offerings on our behalf. Also, if securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect its market price. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock has a limited bid history and prospective investors may not be able to resell their shares at their purchase price, if at all. Our common stock is currently available for trading in the over-the-counter market and is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “WGBS.OB.” Prior to the closing of the Merger, there was no bid history for our common stock and there is no assurance that a regular trading market will develop or, if developed, will be sustained. We may never be able to satisfy 20 Table of Contents the qualitative or quantitative listing requirements for our common stock to be listed on an exchange. These factors may severely limit the liquidity of our common stock and may likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and on our ability to raise additional capital. The market price of the common stock has fluctuated significantly since it was first quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board on June 6, 2007. Since this date, through December 31, 2011, the intra-day trading price has fluctuated from a low of $0.09 to a high of $3.15. The price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • the limited number of holders of the common stock, and the limited liquidity available through the OTC Bulletin Board; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other biotechnology companies; • our announcement of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales or other transactions involving our capital stock. Our common stock may be considered “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is currently less than $5.00 per share and therefore is designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose some information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell the common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. These regulations may likely have the effect of limiting the trading activity of our common stock and reducing the liquidity of an investment in our common stock. In addition, since the common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, investors may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of the common stock and may experience a lack of buyers to purchase our stock or a lack of market makers to support the stock price. Stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock and our preferred stock. In the future, we may issue our authorized but previously unissued equity securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are authorized to issue an aggregate of 310,000,000 shares of capital stock consisting of 300,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of which 41,614,402 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011, and 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share, of which 4,500,000 are designated Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, of which 2,937,499.97 shares are issued and outstanding, and of which 4,500,000 are designated Series A-2 Convertible Preferred Stock, none of which are issued and outstanding. The Series A-1 Preferred Stock and Series A-2 Preferred Stock have preferences and rights as set forth in a certificate of designation. The remaining 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock will have preferences and rights as may be determined by our board of directors at the time of issuance. Specifically, our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval. As a result, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of common stock. In addition, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that has greater voting power than our common stock or that is convertible into common stock, which could decrease the relative voting power of the common stock or result in dilution to our existing stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, (i) our 2,937,499.97 outstanding shares of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, absent the declaration of a dividends totaling $458,208, presently accrued but unpaid, would have been convertible into 30,253,078 shares of our common stock, (ii) we had outstanding convertible promissory notes with an initial aggregate face value of $15,275,000, 21 Table of Contents which, after giving effect to interest paid in kind by addition to principal totaling $460,383, are convertible into 27,605,935 shares of our common stock, (iii) our Malaysian subsidiary had outstanding 4,567,066 CPS not held by the Company which were potentially convertible into an aggregate of 35,836,087 shares of our common stock, and (iv) we had 5,000 outstanding unvested restricted stock units, outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 4,306,900 shares of our common stock and outstanding warrants and comparable instruments to purchase an aggregate of 73,090,180 shares of our common stock, 8,577,389 shares of which are subject to certain anti-dilution protections against future dilutive events (including the issuance of stock at a price below their exercise price). Further, as of November 27, 2014, 4,701,852 additional shares of our common stock will be issuable upon the conversion of our outstanding shares of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, assuming maximum accrual of unpaid dividends on such shares of preferred stock after December 31, 2011, and 4,288,329 additional shares of our common stock will be issuable upon the conversion of our outstanding convertible promissory notes, assuming maximum accrual of unpaid interest on such notes after December 31, 2011. The future conversion of debt and exercise of these options and warrants will subject our existing stockholders to experience dilution of their ownership interests. We may also issue additional shares of common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with hiring or retaining employees, future acquisitions, future sales of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. The future issuance of any additional shares of our common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to issue additional shares, warrants or other convertible securities in the future in conjunction with any capital raising efforts, including at a price (or exercise prices) below the price at which shares of our common stock are then traded. Our principal stockholders will have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of other stockholders. Our officers and directors, and their affiliates, control approximately 14.8% of our outstanding common stock. If all of these stockholders act together, they will be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our stockholders. Stockholders should not anticipate receiving cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 