D. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Anticipated major projects in the oil sands may not materialize. Notwithstanding the National Energy Board’s estimates regarding new investment and growth in the Canadian oil sands, planned and anticipated projects in the oil sands and other related projects may not materialize. The underlying assumptions on which the projects are based are subject to significant uncertainties, and actual investments in the oil sands could be significantly less than estimated. Projected investments and new projects may be postponed or cancelled for any number of reasons, including among others: • changes in the perception of the economic viability of these projects; • shortage of pipeline capacity to transport production to major markets; • lack of sufficient governmental infrastructure to support growth; • shortage of skilled workers in this remote region of Canada; and • cost overruns on announced projects. Changes in our customers’ perception of oil prices over the long-term could cause our customers to defer, reduce or stop their investment in oil sands projects, which would, in turn, reduce our revenue from those customers. Due to the amount of capital investment required to build an oil sands project, or construct a significant expansion to an existing project, investment decisions by oil sands operators are based upon long-term views of the economic viability of the project. Economic viability is dependent upon the anticipated revenues the project will produce, the anticipated amount of capital investment required and the anticipated cost of operating the project. The most important consideration is the customer’s view of the long-term price of oil which is influenced by many factors, including the condition of developed and developing economies and the resulting demand for 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements oil and gas, the level of supply of oil and gas, the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, governmental regulation, political conditions in oil producing nations, including those in the Middle East, war or the threat of war in oil producing regions and the availability of fuel from alternate sources. If our customers believe the long-term outlook for the price of oil is not favorable, or believe oil sands projects are not viable for any other reason, they may delay, reduce or cancel plans to construct new oil sands projects or expansions to existing projects. Delays, reductions or cancellations of major oil sands projects could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Insufficient pipeline, upgrading and refining capacity could cause our customers to delay, reduce or cancel plans to construct new oil sands projects or expand existing projects, which would, in turn, reduce our revenue from those customers. For our customers to operate successfully in the oil sands, they must be able to transport the bitumen produced to upgrading facilities and transport the upgraded oil to refineries. Some oil sands projects have upgraders at mine site and others transport bitumen to upgraders located elsewhere. While current pipeline and upgrading capacity is sufficient for current production, future increases in production from new oil sands projects and expansions to existing projects will require increased upgrading and pipeline capacity. If these increases do not materialize, whether due to inadequate economics for the sponsors of such projects, shortages of labor or materials or any other reason, our customers may be unable to efficiently deliver increased production to market and may therefore delay, reduce or cancel planned capital investment. Such delays, reductions or cancellations of major oil sands projects would adversely affect our prospects and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Lack of sufficient governmental infrastructure to support the growth in the oil sands region could cause our customers to delay, reduce or cancel their future expansions, which would, in turn, reduce our revenue from those customers. The development in the oil sands region has put a great strain on the existing government infrastructure, necessitating substantial improvements to accommodate growth in the region. The local government having responsibility for a majority of the oil sands region has been exceptionally impacted by this growth and is not currently in a position to provide the necessary additional infrastructure. In an effort to delay further development until infrastructure funding issues are resolved, the local governmental authority has intervened in two recent hearings considering applications by major oil sands companies to the EUB for approval to expand their operations. Similar action could be taken with respect to any future applications. The EUB has issued conditional approval for the expansion in respect of one of the hearings despite the intervention by the local government authority, and a decision in the second hearing is pending. The EUB has indicated that it believes that additional infrastructure investment in the oil sands region is needed and that there is a short window of opportunity to make these investments in parallel with continued oil sands development. If the necessary infrastructure is not put in place, future growth of our customers’ operations could be delayed, reduced or canceled which could in turn adversely affect our prospects and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Shortages of qualified personnel or significant labor disputes could adversely affect our business. Alberta, and in particular the oil sands area, has had and continues to have a shortage of skilled labor and other qualified personnel. New mining projects in the area will only make it more difficult for us and our customers to find and hire all the employees required to work on these projects. We are continuously exploring innovative ways to hire the people we need, which include project managers, trades people and other skilled employees. We have expanded our efforts to find qualified candidates outside of Canada who might relocate to our area. In addition, we have undertaken more extensive training of existing employees and we are enhancing our use of technology and developing programs to provide better working conditions. We believe the labor shortage, which affects us and all of our major customers, will continue to be a challenge for everyone in the 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements mining and oil and gas industries in western Canada for the foreseeable future. If we are not able to recruit and retain enough employees with the appropriate skills, we may be unable to maintain our customer service levels, and we may not be able to satisfy any increased demand for our services. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our customers are not able to recruit and retain enough employees with the appropriate skills, they may be unable to develop projects in the oil sands area. Substantially all of our hourly employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements to which we are a party or are otherwise subject. Any work stoppage resulting from a strike or lockout could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our customers employ workers under collective bargaining agreements. Any work stoppage or labor disruption experienced by our key customers could significantly reduce the amount of our services that they need. Cost overruns by our customers on their projects may cause our customers to terminate future projects or expansions which could adversely affect the amount of work we receive from those customers. Oil sands development projects require substantial capital expenditures. In the past, several of our customers’ projects have experienced significant cost overruns, impacting their returns. If cost overruns continue to challenge our customers, they could reassess future projects and expansions which could adversely affect the amount of work we receive from our customers. Our ability to grow our operations in the future may be hampered by our inability to obtain long lead time equipment and tires, which are currently in limited supply. Our ability to grow our business is, in part, dependent upon obtaining equipment on a timely basis. Due to the long production lead times of suppliers of large mining equipment, we must forecast our demand for equipment many months or even years in advance. If we fail to forecast accurately, we could suffer equipment shortages or surpluses, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Global demand for tires of the size and specifications we require is exceeding the available supply. For example, two of our trucks are currently not in service because we cannot get tires for these particular trucks. We expect the supply/demand imbalance for certain tires to continue for several years. Our inability to procure tires to meet the demands for our existing fleet as well as to meet new demand for our services could have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Our customer base is concentrated, and the loss of or a significant reduction in business from a major customer could adversely impact our financial condition. Most of our revenue comes from the provision of services to a small number of major oil sands mining companies. Revenue from our five largest customers represented approximately 65%, 70% and 68% of our total revenue for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and those customers are expected to continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues in the future. In addition, the majority of our Pipeline revenues in previous fiscal years resulted from work performed for one customer. If we lose or experience a significant reduction of business from one or more of our significant customers, we may not be able to replace the lost work with work from other customers. Our long-term contracts typically allow our customers to unilaterally reduce or eliminate the work which we are to perform under the contract. Our contracts generally allow the customer to terminate the contract without cause. The loss of or significant reduction in business with one or more of our major customers, whether as a result of completion of a contract, early termination or failure or inability to pay amounts owed to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Because most of our customers are Canadian energy companies, a downturn in the Canadian energy industry could result in a decrease in the demand for our services. Most of our customers are Canadian energy companies. A downturn in the Canadian energy industry could cause our customers to slow down or curtail their current production and future expansions which would, in turn, reduce our revenue from those customers. Such a delay or curtailment could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Lump-sum and unit-price contracts expose us to losses when our estimates of project costs are lower than actual costs. Approximately 66%, 58% and 51% of our revenue for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, was derived from lump-sum and unit-price contracts. See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Revenue Recognition.” Lump-sum and unit-price contracts require us to guarantee the price of the services we provide and thereby expose us to losses if our estimates of project costs are lower than the actual project costs we incur. Our profitability under these contracts is dependent upon our ability to accurately predict the costs associated with our services. The costs we actually incur may be affected by a variety of factors beyond our control. Factors that may contribute to actual costs exceeding estimated costs and which therefore affect profitability include, without limitation: • site conditions differing from those assumed in the original bid; • scope modifications during the execution of the project; • the availability and cost of skilled workers; • the availability and proximity of materials; • unfavorable weather conditions hindering productivity; • inability or failure of our customers to perform their contractual commitments; • equipment availability and productivity and timing differences resulting from project construction not starting on time; and • the general coordination of work inherent in all large projects we undertake. When we are unable to accurately estimate the costs of lump-sum and unit-price contracts, or when we incur unrecoverable cost overruns, the related projects result in lower margins than anticipated or may incur losses, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Until we establish and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will have appropriate procedures in place to eliminate future financial reporting inaccuracies and avoid delays in financial reporting. We have financial reporting obligations arising from our listings on the New York Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange. We have had continuing problems providing accurate and timely financial information and reports and restated NAEPI’s financial statements three times since the beginning of our 2005 fiscal year. In April of 2005, we had to restate NAEPI’s financial statements for the first and second quarters of 2005 to properly account for costs incurred in those quarters. During 2006, we had to restate NAEPI’s financial statements for each period after November 26, 2003 to the quarter ended December 31, 2004 and the quarter ended June 30, 2005 to eliminate the impact of hedge accounting with respect to the derivative financial instruments. We also had to restate NAEPI’s financial statements for the first quarter of 2006 to correct the accounting for various aspects of the refinancing transactions which occurred in May 2005. Each of these restatements resulted in our inability to file NAEPI’s financial statements within the deadlines imposed by covenants in the indentures governing our 8 3/4% senior notes and 9% senior secured notes. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have identified a number of significant weaknesses (as defined under Canadian auditing standards) in our financial reporting processes and internal controls. See “Significant Weaknesses in Financial Reporting and Internal Controls.” As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate accurate financial reports in a timely manner. Failure to do so would cause us to breach the U.S. and Canadian securities regulations with respect to reporting requirements in the future as well as the covenants applicable to our indebtedness. This could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Until we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, we may not have appropriate measures in place to eliminate financial statement inaccuracies and avoid delays in financial reporting. If, as of the end of our 2008 fiscal year, we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our auditors are unable to confirm our assessment, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our common shares and our business could be adversely affected. We are in the process of documenting, and plan to test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, commencing with our year ending March 31, 2008. Effective March 31, 2008 the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires an annual assessment by management of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by independent auditors on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that we will be able to comply with all of our reporting obligations and successfully complete the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner. During the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remedy in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Effective internal control over financial reporting is important to help produce reliable financial reports and to prevent financial fraud. If, as of the end of fiscal 2008, we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent auditors are unable to attest that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we could be subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our common shares and our ability to maintain confidence in our business could be adversely affected. Our substantial debt could adversely affect us, make us more vulnerable to adverse economic or industry conditions and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. We have a substantial amount of debt outstanding and significant debt service requirements. As of March 31, 2007, we had outstanding $240.3 million of debt, including $9.7 million of capital leases. We also had cross-currency and interest rate swaps with a balance sheet liability of $60.9 million as of March 31, 2007. These swaps are secured equally and ratably with our revolving credit facility. We also had $25.0 million of outstanding, undrawn letters of credit, which reduce the amount of available borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have serious consequences, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, potential growth or other purposes; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business; • limiting our ability to post surety bonds required by some of our customers; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; • increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility in planning for, adverse changes in economic, industry and competitive conditions; and • increasing our vulnerability to increases in interest rates because borrowings under our revolving credit facility and payments under some of our equipment leases are subject to variable interest rates. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The potential consequences of our substantial indebtedness make us more vulnerable to defaults and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Further, if we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we would need to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to achieve on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The terms of our debt agreements may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or take certain actions. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our notes limit, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: • incur or guarantee additional debt, issue certain equity securities or enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • pay dividends or distributions on our shares or repurchase our shares, redeem subordinated debt or make other restricted payments; • incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting certain of our subsidiaries; • issue equity securities of subsidiaries; • make certain investments or acquisitions; • create liens on our assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and • transfer or sell assets, including shares of our subsidiaries. Our revolving credit facility and some of our equipment lease programs also require us, and our future credit facilities may require us, to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy specified financial tests, some of which become more restrictive over time. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet those tests. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. The breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under our revolving credit facility or any future credit facilities or under the indenture governing our notes. Under our revolving credit facility, our failure to pay certain amounts when due to other creditors, including to certain equipment lessors, or the acceleration of such other indebtedness, would also result in an event of default. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our revolving credit facility or future credit facilities, the lenders could elect to stop lending to us or declare all amounts outstanding under such credit facilities to be immediately due and payable. Similarly, upon the occurrence of an event of default under the indenture governing our notes, the outstanding principal and accrued interest on the notes may become immediately due and payable. If amounts outstanding under such credit facilities and indenture were to be accelerated, or if we were not able to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we could become insolvent or be forced into insolvency proceedings and you could lose your investment in us. Between March 31, 2004 and May 19, 2005, it was necessary to obtain a series of waivers and amend our then-existing credit agreement to avoid or to cure our default of various covenants contained in that credit agreement. We ultimately replaced that credit agreement with a new credit agreement on May 19, 2005, which was amended and restated on July 19, 2006, which we replaced with our current amended and restated credit agreement dated as of June 7, 2007. Our inability to file NAEPI’s financial statements for the periods ended December 31, 2004, March 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005 with the SEC within the deadlines imposed by the regulators caused us to be out of 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements compliance with the covenants in the indentures governing our 8 3/4% senior notes and our 9% senior secured notes (the latter indenture having been subsequently repaid and terminated on November 28, 2006). In each case, we filed these financial statements before the lack of compliance became an event of default under the indentures. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service and other obligations due to events beyond our control. For 2005, we had negative operating cash flow of $5.7 million. Our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness and meet other capital requirements will depend on our future operating and financial performance. Our future performance will be impacted by a range of economic, competitive and business factors that we cannot control, such as general economic and financial conditions in our industry or the economy generally. A significant reduction in operating cash flows resulting from changes in economic conditions, increased competition, reduced work or other events could increase the need for additional or alternative sources of liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and our ability to service our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, seeking additional equity capital or reducing capital expenditures. We may not be able to effect any of these alternative strategies on satisfactory terms, if at all, or they may not yield sufficient funds to make required payments on our indebtedness. Currency rate fluctuations could adversely affect our ability to repay our 8 3/4% senior notes and may affect the cost of goods we purchase. We have entered into cross-currency and interest rate swaps that represent economic hedges of our 8 3/4% senior notes, which are denominated in U.S. dollars. The current exchange rate between the Canadian and U.S. dollars as compared to the rate implicit in the swap agreement has resulted in a large liability on the balance sheet under the caption “derivative financial instruments.” If the Canadian dollar increases in value or remains at its current value against the U.S. dollar, then if we repay the 8 3/4% senior notes prior to their maturity in 2011, we will have to pay this liability. Exchange rate fluctuations may also cause the price of goods to increase or decrease for us. For example, a decrease in the value of the Canadian dollar compared to the U.S. dollar would proportionately increase the cost of equipment which is sold to us or priced in U.S. dollars. Between January 1, 2007 and May 31, 2007, the Canadian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate varied from a high of 0.9376 Canadian dollars per U.S. dollar to a low of 0.8419 Canadian dollars per U.S. dollar. If we are unable to obtain surety bonds or letters of credit required by some of our customers, our business could be impaired. We are at times required to post a bid or performance bond issued by a financial institution, known as a surety, to secure our performance commitments. The surety industry experiences periods of unsettled and volatile markets, usually in the aftermath of substantial loss exposures or corporate bankruptcies with significant surety exposure. Historically, these types of events have caused reinsurers and sureties to reevaluate their committed levels of underwriting and required returns. If for any reason, whether because of our financial condition, our level of secured debt or general conditions in the surety bond market, our bonding capacity becomes insufficient to satisfy our future bonding requirements, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Some of our customers require letters of credit to secure our performance commitments. Our second amended and restated revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of letters of credit up to $125.0 million, 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and at March 31, 2007, we had $25.0 million of issued letters of credit outstanding. One of our major contracts allows the customer to require up to $50.0 million in letters of credit. If we were unable to provide letters of credit in the amount requested by this customer, we could lose business from such customer and our business and cash flow would be adversely affected. If our capacity to issue letters of credit under our revolving credit facility and our cash on hand are insufficient to satisfy our customers, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. A change in strategy by our customers to reduce outsourcing could adversely affect our results. Outsourced mining and site preparation services constitute a large portion of the work we perform for our customers. For example, our mining and site preparation project revenues constituted approximately 74% to 75% of our revenues in each of 2007, 2006 and 2005. The election by one or more of our customers to perform some or all of these services themselves, rather than outsourcing the work to us, could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our operations are subject to weather-related factors that may cause delays in our project work. Because our operations are located in western Canada and northern Ontario, we are often subject to extreme weather conditions. While our operations are not significantly affected by normal seasonal weather patterns, extreme weather, including heavy rain and snow, can cause delays in our project work, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We are dependent on our ability to lease equipment, and a tightening of this form of credit could adversely affect our ability to bid for new work and/or supply some of our existing contracts. A portion of our equipment fleet is currently leased from third parties. Further, we anticipate leasing substantial amounts of equipment to perform the work on contracts for which we have been engaged in the upcoming year, particularly the overburden removal contract with CNRL. Other future projects may require us to lease additional equipment. If equipment lessors are unable or unwilling to provide us with the equipment we need to perform our work, our results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our business is highly competitive and competitors may outbid us on major projects that are awarded based on bid proposals. We compete with a broad range of companies in each of our markets. Many of these competitors are substantially larger than we are. In addition, we expect the anticipated growth in the oil sands region will attract new and sometimes larger competitors to enter the region and compete against us for projects. This increased competition may adversely affect our ability to be awarded new business. Approximately 80% of the major projects that we pursue are awarded to us based on bid proposals, and projects are typically awarded based in large part on price. We often compete for these projects against companies that have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do and therefore can better bear the risk of underpricing projects. We also compete against smaller competitors that may have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we can. Our business may be adversely impacted to the extent that we are unable to successfully bid against these companies. The loss of existing customers to our competitors or the failure to win new projects could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. A significant amount of our revenue is generated by providing non-recurring services. More than 66% of our revenue for 2007 was derived from projects which we consider to be non-recurring. This revenue primarily relates to site preparation and piling services provided for the construction of extraction, upgrading and other oil sands mining infrastructure projects. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Demand for our services may be adversely impacted by regulations affecting the energy industry. Our principal customers are energy companies involved in the development of the oil sands and in natural gas production. The operations of these companies, including their mining operations in the oil sands, are subject to or impacted by a wide array of regulations in the jurisdictions where they operate, including those directly impacting mining activities and those indirectly affecting their businesses, such as applicable environmental laws. As a result of changes in regulations and laws relating to the energy production industry, including the operation of mines, our customers’ operations could be disrupted or curtailed by governmental authorities. The high cost of compliance with applicable regulations may cause customers to discontinue or limit their operations, and may discourage companies from continuing development activities. As a result, demand for our services could be substantially affected by regulations adversely impacting the energy industry. Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to liability arising out of our operations or the operations of our customers. Our operations are subject to numerous environmental protection laws and regulations that are complex and stringent. We regularly perform work in and around sensitive environmental areas such as rivers, lakes and forests. Significant fines and penalties may be imposed on us or our customers for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations, and our contracts generally require us to indemnify our customers for environmental claims suffered by them as a result of our actions. In addition, some environmental laws impose strict, joint and several liability for investigative and remediation costs in relation to releases of harmful substances. These laws may impose liability without regard to negligence or fault. We also may be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damage if we cause the release of, or any exposure to, harmful substances. We own or lease, and operate, several properties that have been used for a number of years for the storage and maintenance of equipment and other industrial uses. Fuel may have been spilled, or hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been released on these properties. Any release of substances by us or by third parties who previously operated on these properties may be subject to laws which impose joint and several liability for clean-up, without regard to fault, on specific classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of harmful substances into the environment. Failure by our customers to obtain required permits and licenses may affect the demand for our services. The development of the oil sands requires our customers to obtain regulatory and other permits and licenses from various governmental licensing bodies. Our customers may not be able to obtain all necessary permits and licenses that may be required for the development of the oil sands on their properties. In such a case, our customers’ projects will not proceed, thereby adversely impacting demand for our services. Our projects expose us to potential professional liability, product liability, warranty or other claims. We install deep foundations, often in congested and densely populated areas, and provide construction management services for significant projects. Notwithstanding the fact that we generally will not accept liability for consequential damages in our contracts, any catastrophic occurrence in excess of insurance limits at projects where our structures are installed or services are performed could result in significant professional liability, product liability, warranty or other claims against us. Such liabilities could potentially exceed our current insurance coverage and the fees we derive from those services. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of a significant magnitude, could result in substantial losses. We may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from any future acquisitions, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to pursue selective acquisitions as a method of expanding our business. However, we may not be able to identify or successfully bid on businesses that we might find attractive. If we do find attractive acquisition 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements opportunities, we might not be able to acquire these businesses at a reasonable price. If we do acquire other businesses, we might not be able to successfully integrate these businesses into our then-existing business. We might not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies will have achieved or might achieve separately. Successful integration of acquired operations will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. Because of difficulties in combining operations, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that we hoped to achieve through these acquisitions. Any of these factors could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Aboriginal peoples may make claims against our customers or their projects regarding the lands on which their projects are located. Aboriginal peoples have claimed aboriginal title and rights to a substantial portion of western Canada. Any claims that may be asserted against our customers, if successful, could have an adverse effect on our customers which may, in turn, negatively impact our business. Unanticipated short term shutdowns of our customers’ operating facilities may result in temporary cessation or cancellation of projects in which we are participating. The majority of our work is generated from the development, expansion and ongoing maintenance of oil sands mining, extraction and upgrading facilities. Unplanned shutdowns of these facilities due to events outside our control or the control of our customers, such as fires, mechanical breakdowns and technology failures, could lead to the temporary shutdown or complete cessation of projects in which we are working. When these events have happened in the past, our business has been adversely affected. Our ability to maintain revenues and margins may be affected to the extent these events cause reductions in the utilization of equipment. Many of our senior officers have either recently joined the company or have just been promoted and have only worked together as a management team for a short period of time. We recently made several significant changes to our senior management team. In May 2005, we hired a new Chief Executive Officer and promoted our Vice President, Operations to Chief Operating Officer. In January 2005 we hired a new Treasurer, who is now our Vice President, Supply Chain. In June 2006, we hired a new Vice President, Human Resources, Health, Safety and Environment. In September 2006, we hired a new Chief Financial Officer. Our Chief Operating Officer has resigned effective July 31, 2007. As a result of these and other recent changes in senior management, many of our officers have only worked together as a management team for a short period of time and do not have a long history with us. Because our senior management team is responsible for the management of our business and operations, failure to successfully integrate our senior management team could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will incur significantly higher costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we will incur significantly higher legal, accounting and other expenses than we did as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as similar or related rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, Canadian securities regulatory authorities, the New York Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange, have imposed substantial requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices and requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 