Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to numerous risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this report. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities. Risks Related to Our Business We depend to a great extent on the economies and the demographics of the local communities that we serve and are also susceptible to general economic downturns, which could have a material and adverse impact on our advertising and circulation revenues and on our profitability. Our advertising revenues and, to a lesser extent, circulation revenues, depend upon a variety of factors specific to the communities that our publications serve. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, local economic conditions in general and the economic condition of the retail segments of the communities that our publications serve. If the local economy, population or prevailing retail environment of a community we serve experiences a downturn, our publications, revenues and profitability in that market could be adversely affected. Our advertising revenues are also susceptible to negative trends in the general economy that affect consumer spending. The advertisers in our newspapers and other publications and related websites are primarily retail businesses, which can be significantly affected by regional or national economic downturns and other developments. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and reduce the funds available to us for other purposes, including dividend payments. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2006, we had total indebtedness of $558.0 million under our then outstanding first lien credit facility. Our pro forma interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 is $49.7 million. At December 31, 2006, the borrowings under our first lien credit facility were subject to a floating interest rate of 7.6%. The borrowings under our first lien credit facility were hedged through the execution of interest rate hedge agreements that convert the floating interest rate component to an effective interest rate of 4.14% on $300.0 million of these borrowings through June 15, 2012 and 5.36% on the remaining $258.0 million of these borrowings through July 1, 2011. On February 27, 2006, we entered into the 2007 Credit Facility. Our total indebtedness under the 2007 Credit Facility was $690.0 as of March 9, 2007. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health in the following ways: Ÿ a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest on our outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes, including our ability to pay dividends on our common stock; Ÿ our substantial degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or other adverse events in our business; Ÿ our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired, limiting our ability to maintain the value of our assets and operations; and Ÿ there would be a material and adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we are unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed. In addition, our first lien credit facility contains, and future indebtedness may contain, financial and other restrictive covenants, ratios and tests that limit our ability to incur additional debt and engage 31 Table of Contents in other activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our ability to comply with the covenants, ratios or tests contained in our amended and restated first lien credit facility or in the agreements governing our future indebtedness may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our amended and restated first lien credit facility prohibits us from making dividend payments on our common stock if we are not in compliance with our restricted payment covenant. In addition, events of default, if not waived or cured, could result in the acceleration of the maturity of our indebtedness under our amended and restated first lien credit facility or our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our amended and restated first lien credit facility could proceed against the security granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders accelerate the payment of our indebtedness under our amended and restated first lien credit facility or other indebtedness, if any, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. Although our amended and restated first lien credit facility limits the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, we are not subject to these limitations. Accordingly, we may incur significantly more debt, which could also adversely affect our financial health. We may not be able to pay or maintain dividends and the failure to do so may negatively affect our share price. We intend to pay regular quarterly dividends to the holders of our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends, if any, will depend on, among other things, our cash flows, our cash requirements, our financial condition, the degree to which we are or become leveraged, contractual restrictions binding on us, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our first lien credit facility contains certain restrictions on our ability to make dividend payments. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash from continuing operations in the future, or have sufficient surplus or net profits, as the case may be, under Delaware law, to pay dividends on our common stock. Our dividend policy is based upon our directors’ current assessment of our business and the environment in which we operate and that assessment could change based on competitive or technological developments (which could, for example, increase our need for capital expenditures) or new growth opportunities. Our board of directors may, in its discretion, amend or repeal our dividend policy to decrease the level of dividends or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends. The reduction or elimination of dividends may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We may not retain a sufficient amount of cash or generate sufficient funds from operations to consummate acquisitions, fund our operations or repay our indebtedness at maturity or otherwise. We intend to pay regular quarterly dividends to the holders of our common stock. As a result, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance growth opportunities, including acquisitions, or fund our operations, including unanticipated capital expenditures. Our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business, including through acquisitions or increased capital spending, will depend more than it otherwise would on our ability to obtain third party financing. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available to us at all, or at an acceptable cost. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness as required will depend on our ability to generate cash flow from operations in the future. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. 32 Table of Contents We intend to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities, which may subject us to considerable business and financial risk. We have grown through, and anticipate that we will continue to grow through, acquisitions of paid daily and weekly newspapers and free circulation and total market coverage publications, such as shoppers, as well as other forms of local media such as directories, traders and direct mail. We evaluate potential acquisitions on an ongoing basis and from time-to-time are actively pursuing acquisition opportunities. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of these opportunities and consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. Furthermore, suitable acquisition opportunities may not even be made available or known to us. Acquisitions may expose us to particular business and financial risks that include, but are not limited to: Ÿ diverting management’s attention; Ÿ incurring additional indebtedness and assuming liabilities; Ÿ incurring significant additional capital expenditures, transaction and operating expenses and non-recurring acquisition-related charges; Ÿ experiencing an adverse impact on our earnings from the amortization or write-off of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets; Ÿ failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; Ÿ acquiring businesses with which we are not familiar; Ÿ entering new markets with which we are not familiar; and Ÿ failing to retain key personnel, readers and customers of the acquired businesses. We may not be able to successfully manage acquired businesses or increase our cash flow from these operations. If we are unable to successfully implement our acquisition strategy or address the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than other profitable areas. In addition, we may compete for certain acquisition targets with companies having greater financial resources than we do. We anticipate that we may finance acquisitions through cash provided by operating activities, borrowings under our first lien credit facility and other indebtedness, which would reduce our cash available for other purposes, including the repayment of indebtedness and payment of dividends. If there is a significant increase in the price of newsprint or a reduction in the availability of newsprint, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. The basic raw material for our publications is newsprint. We generally maintain only a 30-day inventory of newsprint, although participation in a newsprint-buying consortium helps ensure adequate supply. An inability to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint at a favorable price or at all in the future could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce our publications. Historically, the price of newsprint has been volatile, reaching a high of approximately $750 per metric ton in 1996 and dropping to a low of almost $410 per metric ton in 2002. The average price of newsprint for 2006 was approximately $662 per metric ton. Significant increases in newsprint costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Business—Newsprint” in Item 1 of this report. 33 Table of Contents We compete with a large number of companies in the local media industry; if we are unable to compete effectively, our advertising and circulation revenues may decline. Our business is concentrated in newspapers and other print publications located primarily in small and midsize markets in the United States. Our revenues primarily consist of advertising and paid circulation. Competition for advertising revenues and paid circulation comes from direct mail, directories, radio, television, outdoor advertising, other newspaper publications, the internet and other media. For example, as the use of the internet has increased, we have lost some classified advertising and subscribers to online advertising businesses and our free internet sites that contain abbreviated versions of our publications. Competition for advertising revenues is based largely upon advertiser results, advertising rates, readership, demographics and circulation levels. Competition for circulation is based largely upon the content of the publication and its price and editorial quality. Our local and regional competitors vary from market to market and many of our competitors for advertising revenues are larger and have greater financial and distribution resources than us. We may incur increasing costs competing for advertising expenditures and paid circulation. We may also experience a decline of circulation or print advertising revenue due to alternative media, such as the internet. If we are not able to compete effectively for advertising expenditures and paid circulation, our revenues may decline. See “Business—Competition” in Item 1 of this report. Our business is subject to seasonal and other fluctuations, which affects our revenues and operating results. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations that we expect to continue to be reflected in our operating results in future periods. Our first fiscal quarter of the year tends to be our weakest quarter because advertising volume is at its lowest levels following the holiday season. Correspondingly, our fourth fiscal quarter tends to be our strongest quarter because it includes heavy holiday season advertising. Other factors that affect our quarterly revenues and operating results may be beyond our control, including changes in the pricing policies of our competitors, the hiring and retention of key personnel, wage and cost pressures, distribution costs, changes in newsprint prices and general economic factors. We could be adversely affected by declining circulation. According to the Newspaper Association of America, overall daily newspaper circulation, including national and urban newspapers, has declined at an average annual rate of 0.8% during the three-year period from 2002 to 2004. There can be no assurance that our circulation will not decline in the future. We have been able to maintain our annual circulation revenue from existing operations in recent years through, among other things, increases in our per copy prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to increase prices to offset any declines in circulation. Further declines in circulation could impair our ability to maintain or increase our advertising prices, cause purchasers of advertising in our publications to reduce or discontinue those purchases and discourage potential new advertising customers which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have a history of losses and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in the future. We experienced operating losses from continuing operations of approximately $14.9 million and $14.1 million on a pro forma basis in 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $30.7 million in 2004. Our results of operations in the future will depend on many factors, including our ability to execute our business strategy and realize efficiencies through our clustering strategy. Our failure to achieve 34 Table of Contents profitability in the future could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital and, accordingly, our ability to grow our business. We are subject to environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations that could cause us to incur significant compliance expenditures and liabilities. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to the environment, storage tanks and the management and disposal of wastes at our facilities. Under various environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for contamination resulting from the release or threatened release of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum at that property. Such laws often impose liability on the owner or operator without regard to fault and the costs of any required investigation or cleanup can be substantial. Our operations are also subject to various employee safety and health laws and regulations, including those pertaining to occupational injury and illness, employee exposure to hazardous materials and employee complaints. Environmental and employee safety and health laws tend to be complex, comprehensive and frequently changing. As a result, we may be involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and investigations related to environmental and employee safety and health issues. These proceedings and investigations could result in substantial costs to us, divert our management’s attention and adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop our real property. Furthermore, if it is determined we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or if our properties are contaminated, it could result in significant liabilities, fines or the suspension or interruption of the operations of specific printing facilities. Future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, new laws or regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to us, may give rise to additional compliance or remedial costs that could be material. We depend on key personnel and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our key personnel or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future. We are dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. In particular, we are dependent upon the management and leadership of Michael E. Reed, our Chief Executive Officer, Mark Thompson, our Chief Financial Officer, and Scott T. Champion and Randall W. Cope, our Co-Presidents and Co-Chief Operating Officers. The loss of Mr. Reed, Mr. Thompson, Mr. Champion, Mr. Cope or other key personnel could affect our ability to run our business effectively. The success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to retain our current management and other key personnel and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our key personnel, these agreements do not ensure that our key personnel will continue in their present capacity with us for any particular period of time. We do not have key man insurance for any of our current management or other key personnel. The loss of any key personnel would require our remaining key personnel to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. An inability to find a suitable replacement for any departing executive officer on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. A shortage of skilled or experienced employees in the media industry, or our inability to retain such employees, could pose a risk to achieving improved productivity and reducing costs, which could adversely affect our profitability. Production and distribution of our various publications requires skilled and experienced employees. A shortage of such employees, or our inability to retain such employees, could have an adverse impact on our productivity and costs, our ability to expand, develop and distribute new products and our entry into new markets. The cost of retaining or hiring such employees could exceed our expectations. 35 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and the interests of our principal stockholder may conflict with interests of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2006, Fortress beneficially owned approximately 56.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Fortress can control fundamental and significant corporate matters and transactions, including: the election of directors; mergers, consolidations or acquisitions; the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other decisions affecting our capital structure; the amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws; and our dissolution. The interests of Fortress may not always coincide with our interests or the interest of our other stockholders. For example, Fortress could delay, deter or prevent acts that may be favored by our other stockholders such as hostile takeovers, changes in control and changes in management. As a result of such actions, the market price of our common stock could decline or stockholders might not receive a premium for their shares in connection with a change of control transaction. Fortress has the right to, and has no duty to abstain from exercising such right to, engage or invest in the same or similar business as us. Fortress, together with its affiliates, has other business activities in addition to their ownership of us. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, Fortress has the right to, and has no duty to abstain from exercising such right to, engage or invest in the same or similar business as us, do business with any of our clients, customers or vendors or employ or otherwise engage any of our officers, directors or employees. If Fortress, any of its affiliates or any of their officers, directors or employees acquire knowledge of a potential transaction that could be a corporate opportunity, they have no duty to offer such corporate opportunity to us, our stockholders or our affiliates. In the event that any of our directors and officers who is also a director, officer or employee of Fortress acquires knowledge of a corporate opportunity or is offered a corporate opportunity, provided that this knowledge was not acquired solely in such person’s capacity as our director or officer and such person acted in good faith, then such person is deemed to have fully satisfied such person’s fiduciary duty and is not liable to us if Fortress pursues or acquires such corporate opportunity or if such person did not present the corporate opportunity to us. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. We have a number of anti-takeover devices in place that can hinder takeover attempts, including: Ÿ a staggered board of directors consisting of three classes of directors, each of whom serves a three-year term; Ÿ removal of directors only for cause and only with the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote; Ÿ blank-check preferred stock; 36 Table of Contents Ÿ provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws preventing stockholders from calling special meetings or acting by written consent in lieu of a meeting (with the exception of Fortress, so long as Fortress beneficially owns at least 50% of our issued and outstanding common stock); Ÿ advance notice requirements for stockholders with respect to director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and Ÿ no provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock can elect all the directors standing for election. Our first lien credit facility also limited, and the 2007 Credit Facility currently limits, our ability to enter into certain change of control transactions, the occurrence of which would have constituted an event of default under our first lien credit facility. However, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders in certain situations, will not apply to us. This may make it easier for a third party to acquire an interest in some or all of us with Fortress’ approval, even though our other stockholders may not deem such an acquisition beneficial to their interests. We are a holding company and our access to the cash flow of our subsidiaries is subject to restrictions imposed by our indebtedness. We are a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we own in our direct subsidiary, GateHouse Media Holdco, Inc. (“Holdco”), through which we indirectly own equity interests in our operating subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to make dividend payments. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and have no obligation to make funds available to us. Holdco and certain of its subsidiaries are parties to our first lien credit facility, which imposes restrictions on their ability to make loans, dividend payments or other payments to us. Any payment of dividends to us were and will be subject to the satisfaction of certain financial conditions set forth in our first lien credit facility and the 2007 Credit Facility, respectively. The ability of Holdco and its subsidiaries to comply with these conditions may be affected by events that are beyond our control. We expect future borrowings by our subsidiaries to contain restrictions or prohibitions on the payment of dividends to us. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our operations, business, securities and ability to comply with applicable regulations and requirements. On April 20, 2006, we received a letter from KPMG LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, in connection with the audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, which identified two material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting for the same period. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board defines a material weakness as a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. 37 Table of Contents KPMG LLP identified the following two material weaknesses: Ÿ insufficient analysis of GAAP to determine the appropriate accounting for certain unusual transactions, such as restructuring of our balance sheet in connection with the extinguishment of debt and acquisition related accounting, resulting in a number of significant adjustments to our consolidated financial statements; and failure to maintain a policy that requires a formal review of unusual or significant transactions; and Ÿ in conjunction with the Merger, failure to appropriately establish a new basis of accounting, as required under GAAP, failure to record transaction costs associated with the Merger in the appropriate period and failure to record in the general ledger our post-closing entries to reflect the new basis of accounting. To strengthen our accounting and finance group, we began recruiting additional finance and accounting personnel in November 2005. Since January 2006, we have hired an experienced senior management team, including a general counsel, and a strong and experienced finance and accounting group consisting of seven corporate accounting professionals and 15 shared services accounting professionals, many of whom have public company experience. The Acquisitions further strengthened our finance and accounting staff. We are in the process of centralizing certain of the accounting and reporting functions. We have also endeavored to ensure that sufficient time is made available for our personnel to adequately research, document, review and conclude on reporting matters and to increase our accounting, reporting and legal resources. While we have taken actions to address the material weaknesses identified above and believe we have adequately addressed them, additional measures may be necessary and these measures, along with other measures we expect to take to improve our internal controls, may not be sufficient to address the issues identified by KPMG LLP. If we are unable to correct weaknesses in internal controls in a timely manner or if we are unable to scale these systems to our growth, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC may be adversely affected. This failure could materially and adversely impact our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities and could result in the imposition of sanctions, including the suspension or delisting of our common stock from the New York Stock Exchange, the inability of registered broker dealers to make a market in our common stock, or investigation by regulatory authorities. Further and continued determinations that there are significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting could also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures to comply with applicable requirements. The requirements of being a newly public company may strain our resources, including personnel, and cause us to incur additional expenses. Our stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange in October 2006. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These requirements may place a strain on our people, systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight is required. This resource allocation may divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Our costs have increased as a result of having to comply with the Exchange Act, and the New York Stock Exchange listing requirements, which require us, among other things, to maintain an internal audit function. 38 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 