Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to numerous risks. Such risks, to the extent material, are described below. Risks Related to Our Business We depend to a great extent on the economies and the demographics of the local communities that we serve and we are also susceptible to general economic downturns, like the one currently being experienced, which has had, and could continue to have, a material and adverse impact on our advertising and circulation revenues and on our profitability. Our advertising revenues and, to a lesser extent, circulation revenues, depend upon a variety of factors specific to the communities that our publications serve. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, local economic conditions in general and the economic condition of the retail segments of the communities that our publications serve. If the local economy, population or prevailing retail environment of a community we serve experiences a downturn, our publications, revenues and profitability in that market could be adversely affected. Our advertising revenues are also susceptible to negative trends in the general economy, like the one currently being experienced, that affect consumer spending. The advertisers in our newspapers and other publications and related websites are primarily retail businesses, which can be significantly affected by regional or national economic downturns and other developments. Continuing or deepening softness in the U.S. economy could also significantly affect key advertising revenue categories, such as help wanted, real estate and automotive. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which we participate may negatively affect our business. Current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the markets in which we participate. Adverse changes may occur as a result of soft global economic conditions, rising oil prices, wavering consumer confidence, unemployment, declines in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, declines in real estate values, or other factors affecting economic conditions in general. These changes may negatively affect the sales of our products, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, or increase costs associated with publishing and distributing our publications. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and reduce the funds available to us for corporate purposes. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At January 1, 2012, we had total indebtedness of approximately $1.2 billion under our 2007 Credit Facility. Our interest expense for the year ended January 1, 2012 was $58.3 million. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health in the following ways: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest on our outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; • our flexibility to react to further deterioration in our industry and economic conditions generally may be limited; • our substantial degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable in the event of additional deterioration in general economic conditions or other adverse events in our business or the geographic markets that we serve; 36 • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired, limiting our ability to maintain the value of our assets and operations; and • there would be a material and adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we are unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed. In addition, our 2007 Credit Facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants, ratios and tests that limit our ability to incur additional debt and engage in other activities that we believe may be in our long-term best interests. Our ability to comply with the covenants, ratios or tests contained in our 2007 Credit Facility may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. In addition, events of default, if not waived or cured, could result in the acceleration of the maturity of our indebtedness under our 2007 Credit Facility. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our 2007 Credit Facility could proceed against the security granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders accelerate the payment of our indebtedness under our 2007 Credit Facility, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. In addition, a portion of our 2007 Credit Facility is unhedged, which means we are subject to the risk of interest rate fluctuations on such portion of our long-term debt. If the interest rate on such portion of the 2007 Credit Facility increases, it may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may not generate a sufficient amount of cash or generate sufficient funds from operations to fund our operations or repay our indebtedness at maturity or otherwise. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness as required depends on our ability to generate cash flow from operations in the future. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Currently we do not have the ability to draw upon our revolving credit facility which limits our immediate and short-term access to funds. If we are unable to repay our indebtedness at maturity we may be forced to liquidate or reorganize our operations and business under the federal bankruptcy laws. The collectability of accounts receivable under current adverse economic conditions could deteriorate to a greater extent than provided for in our financial statements and in our projections of future results. Adverse economic conditions in the United States have increased our exposure to losses resulting from the potential bankruptcy of our advertising customers. Our accounts receivable are stated at net estimated realizable value and our allowance for doubtful accounts has been determined based on several factors, including receivable agings, significant individual credit risk accounts and historical experience. If such collectability estimates prove inaccurate, adjustments to future operating results could occur. Further declines in our credit ratings and renewed volatility in the U.S. credit markets could significantly impact our ability to obtain new financing to fund our operations and strategic initiatives or to refinance our existing debt at reasonable rates as it matures. Our long-term debt is rated by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service. We are currently rated below-investment grade by both rating agencies, and any future long-term borrowing or the extension or replacement of our short-term borrowing will reflect the negative impact of these ratings, increasing our borrowing costs, limiting our financing options and subjecting us to more restrictive covenants than our existing debt arrangements. Additional reductions in our credit ratings could further increase our borrowing costs, subject us to more onerous terms and reduce or eliminate our borrowing flexibility in the future. Such limitations on our financing options may affect our ability to refinance existing debt when it becomes due. 37 If there is a significant increase in the price of newsprint or a reduction in the availability of newsprint, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. The basic raw material for our publications is newsprint. We generally maintain only a 45 to 55-day inventory of newsprint, although our participation in a newsprint-buying consortium helps ensure adequate supply. In addition we have an agreement with a newsprint vendor to supply certain of our properties, representing approximately 75% of our requirements, with all their newsprint requirements for calendar year 2012 at a fixed price. An inability to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint at a favorable price or at all in the future could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce our publications. Historically, the price of newsprint has been volatile, reaching a high of approximately $823 per metric ton in 2008 and dropping to a low of almost $410 per metric ton in 2002. The average price of newsprint for 2011 was approximately $657 per metric ton. Recent and future consolidation of major newsprint suppliers may adversely affect price competition among suppliers. Significant increases in newsprint costs for properties and periods not covered by our newsprint vendor agreement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We compete with a large number of companies in the local media industry; if we are unable to compete effectively, our advertising and circulation revenues may decline. Our business is concentrated in newspapers and other print publications located primarily in small and midsize markets in the United States. Our revenues primarily consist of advertising and paid circulation. Competition for advertising revenues and paid circulation comes from direct mail, directories, radio, television, outdoor advertising, other newspaper publications, the internet and other media. For example, as the use of the internet and mobile devices has increased, we have lost some classified advertising and subscribers to online advertising businesses and our free internet sites that contain abbreviated versions of our publications. Competition for advertising revenues is based largely upon advertiser results, advertising rates, readership, demographics and circulation levels. Competition for circulation is based largely upon the content of the publication and its price and editorial quality. Our local and regional competitors vary from market to market and many of our competitors for advertising revenues are larger and have greater financial and distribution resources than us. We may incur increased costs competing for advertising expenditures and paid circulation. We may also experience a decline of circulation or print advertising revenue due to alternative media, such as the internet. If we are not able to compete effectively for advertising expenditures and paid circulation, our revenues may decline. We are undertaking a strategic re-alignment of our business that could have a material adverse financial impact if unsuccessful. We are undertaking a strategic re-alignment of our business. Among other things we are implementing the standardization and centralization of systems and process, the outsourcing of certain financial processes and the use of new software for our circulation, advertising and editorial systems. As a result of ongoing strategic evaluation and analysis, we have made and will continue to make changes that, if unsuccessful, could have a material adverse financial impact. We have invested in growing our digital business, but such investments may not be as successful as expected which could adversely affect our results of operations. We continue to evaluate our business and how we intend to grow our digital business. Internal resources and effort are put towards this business and key partnerships have been entered into to assist with our digital business. There can be no assurances that the partnerships we have entered into or the internal strategy being employed will result in generating or increasing digital revenues. 38 If we are unable to retain and grow our digital audience and advertiser base, our digital businesses will be adversely affected. Given the ever-growing and rapidly changing number of digital media options available on the internet, we may not be able to increase our online traffic sufficiently and retain or grow a base of frequent visitors to our websites and applications on mobile devices. Accordingly, we may not be able to create sufficient advertiser interest in our digital businesses and to maintain or increase the advertising rates of the inventory on our websites. Technological developments and any changes we make to our business model may require significant capital investments. Due to restrictions our 2007 Credit Facility, we are limited in our ability to invest funds and resources in digital opportunities and our ability to undertake research and development in building and maintain the necessary and continually evolving technology infrastructure. Our business is subject to seasonal and other fluctuations, which affects our revenues and operating results. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations that we expect to continue to be reflected in our operating results in future periods. Our first fiscal quarter of the year tends to be our weakest quarter because advertising volume is at its lowest levels following the December holiday season. Correspondingly, our second and fourth fiscal quarters tend to be our strongest because they include heavy holiday and seasonal advertising. Other factors that affect our quarterly revenues and operating results may be beyond our control, including changes in the pricing policies of our competitors, the hiring and retention of key personnel, wage and cost pressures, distribution costs, changes in newsprint prices and general economic factors. We could be adversely affected by continued declining circulation. Overall daily newspaper circulation, including national and urban newspapers, has declined in recent years. There can be no assurance that our circulation will not continue to decline in the future. We have been able to maintain our annual circulation revenue from existing operations in recent years through, among other things, increases in our per copy prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to increase prices to offset any declines in circulation. Further declines in circulation could impair our ability to maintain or increase our advertising prices, cause purchasers of advertising in our publications to reduce or discontinue those purchases and discourage potential new advertising customers, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The increasing popularity of digital media could also adversely affect circulation of our newspapers, which may decrease circulation revenue and cause more marked declines in print advertising. If we are not successful in offsetting such declines in revenues from our print products, our business, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected. We have a history of losses and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in the future. We experienced losses from continuing operations of approximately $22.2 million, $26.2 million and $527.4 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our results of operations in the future will depend on many factors, including our ability to execute our business strategy and realize efficiencies through our clustering strategy. Our failure to achieve profitability in the future could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital and, accordingly, our ability to grow or maintain our business. The value of our intangible assets may become impaired, depending upon future operating results. As of January 1, 2012, goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $260.6 million, or 51.0% of our total assets. To determine whether all or a portion of the carrying values of our goodwill and other intangible 39 assets are no longer recoverable, which may require a charge to our earnings, we periodically evaluate such assets. Due to an operational management change in the fourth quarter of 2011, certain properties having a goodwill balance of $0.4 million were transferred to a reporting unit that previously did not have a goodwill balance. The Company performed a Step 1 analysis for this reporting unit and determined that its carrying value exceeded fair value. As a result of the Step 2 analysis, the entire $0.4 million of goodwill was impaired. The Company performed further analysis of this reporting unit’s intangible assets and determined that additional impairments were not present as of year-end. A review of impairment indicators was performed for the Company’s other reporting units and it was determined that financial results and forecast had not changed materially since the June 26, 2011 impairment test and it was determined that further impairment analysis was not required. We are subject to environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations that could cause us to incur significant compliance expenditures and liabilities. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to the environment, storage tanks and the management and disposal of wastes at our facilities. Under various environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for contamination resulting from the release or threatened release of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum at that property. Such laws often impose liability on the owner or operator without regard to fault and the costs of any required investigation or cleanup can be substantial. Although in connection with certain of our acquisitions we have rights to indemnification for certain environmental liabilities, these rights may not be sufficient to reimburse us for all losses that we might incur if a property acquired by us has environmental contamination. Our operations are also subject to various employee safety and health laws and regulations, including those pertaining to occupational injury and illness, employee exposure to hazardous materials and employee complaints. Environmental and employee safety and health laws tend to be complex, comprehensive and frequently changing. As a result, we may be involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and investigations related to environmental and employee safety and health issues. These proceedings and investigations could result in substantial costs to us, divert our management’s attention and adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or develop our real property. Furthermore, if it is determined that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or if our properties are contaminated, it could result in significant liabilities, fines or the suspension or interruption of the operations of specific printing facilities. Future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, new laws or regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to us, may give rise to additional compliance or remedial costs that could be material. Sustained increases in costs of employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability. Moreover, our pension plan obligations are currently unfunded, and we may have to make significant cash contributions to our plans, which could reduce the cash available for our business. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in the cost of employee medical benefits because of economic factors beyond our control, including increases in health care costs. At least some of these factors may continue to put upward pressure on the cost of providing medical benefits. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce the profitability of our businesses. Our pension and post retirement plans were underfunded (accumulated benefit obligation) by $13.9 million at January 1, 2012. Our pension plan invests in a variety of equity and debt securities, many of which were affected by the recent disruptions in the credit and capital markets in 2009 and 2010. Future volatility and disruption in the stock markets could cause further declines in the asset values of our pension plans. In addition, a decrease in the discount rate used to determine minimum funding requirements could result in increased future contributions. If either occurs, we may need to make additional pension contributions above what is currently estimated, which could reduce the cash available for our businesses. 40 We may not be able to protect intellectual property rights upon which our business relies and, if we lose intellectual property protection, our assets may lose value. Our business depends on our intellectual property, including, but not limited to, our content and services, which we attempt to protect through patents, copyrights, trade laws and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements. We believe our proprietary and other intellectual property rights are important to our continued success and our competitive position. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our content, services and other intellectual property, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent any misappropriation or confusion among consumers and merchants, or unauthorized use of these rights. If we are unable to procure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, we may not realize the full value of these assets, and our business may suffer. If we must litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, such litigation may be costly and divert the attention of our management. We depend on key personnel and we may not be able to operate or grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our key personnel or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future. The success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to retain our current management and other key personnel and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our key personnel, these agreements do not ensure that our key personnel will continue in their present capacity with us for any particular period of time. We do not have key man insurance for any of our current management or other key personnel. The loss of any key personnel would require our remaining key personnel to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. An inability to find a suitable replacement for any departing executive officer on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate or grow our business. A shortage of skilled or experienced employees in the media industry, or our inability to retain such employees, could pose a risk to achieving improved productivity and reducing costs, which could adversely affect our profitability. Production and distribution of our various publications requires skilled and experienced employees. A shortage of such employees, or our inability to retain such employees, could have an adverse impact on our productivity and costs, our ability to expand, develop and distribute new products and our entry into new markets. The cost of retaining or hiring such employees could exceed our expectations which could adversely affect our results of operations. A number of our employees are unionized, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if labor negotiations or contracts were to further restrict our ability to maximize the efficiency of our operations. As of January 1, 2012, we employed approximately 5,202 employees, of whom approximately 785 (or approximately 15%) were represented by 23 unions. 95% of the unionized employees are represented by three of the 23 unions. These three unions are located in our Massachusetts, Illinois and Ohio locations and represent 33%, 35% and 27% of all employees in each of the locations, respectively. Most of our unionized employees work under collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2012. Although our newspapers have not experienced a union strike in the recent past nor do we anticipate a union strike occurring, we cannot preclude the possibility that a strike may occur at one or more of our newspapers. We believe that, in the event of a newspaper strike, we would be able to continue to publish and deliver to subscribers, which is critical to retaining advertising and circulation revenues, although there can be no assurance of this. 41 Our potential inability to successfully execute cost control measures could result in greater than expected total operating costs. We have implemented general cost control measures, and expect to continue such cost control efforts. If we do not achieve expected savings as a result of such measures or if our operating costs increase as a result of our growth strategy, our total operating costs may be greater than expected. In addition, reductions in staff and employee benefits could affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. Our common stock trades in the over-the-counter market, which makes it less liquid, more volatile and harder for us to raise capital. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the trading symbol “GHSE”. No assurance can be given that our common stock will continue to be traded on any stock market, that any broker will make a market in our common stock, or that any active trading market in our common stock will exist. Broker-dealers often decline to trade in “pink sheet” stocks given that (i) the market for such securities is often limited, (ii) such securities are generally more volatile, and (iii) the risk to investors is generally greater. Moreover, additional requirements pertaining to broker-dealers generally makes it more difficult for such broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy securities traded on the “pink sheets.” Consequently, selling our common stock can be difficult because smaller quantities of shares can be bought and sold, transactions can be delayed and securities analyst and media coverage of our Company is reduced. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock as well as lower trading volume. We cannot provide any assurance that, even if our common stock continues to be listed or quoted on the pink sheets or another market or system, the market for our common stock will be as liquid. This lack of liquidity also could make it even more difficult for us to raise capital in the future, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business. Companies that are quoted on the pink sheets are not subject to corporate governance requirements in order for their shares to be quoted. As a result, our stockholders have less protection from conflicts of interest, related party transactions and similar matters. Our common stock currently trades as an over-the-counter security on the “pink sheets.” Corporate governance requirements are not imposed on companies quoted on the pink sheets. As a result of our delisting from the NYSE, we are not required to comply with any, and our stockholders no longer have the protection of, various NYSE corporate governance requirements, including among others: • the requirement that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that a minimum of three members of our board of directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that we have an audit committee, a nominating committee and a compensation committee, in each case that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the audit, nominating and compensation committees; and • the requirement that our stockholders must be given the opportunity to vote on equity-compensation plans and material revisions thereto. We do not anticipate paying any dividends for the foreseeable future. We suspended the payment of quarterly cash dividends commencing with the second quarter of 2008 and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on, or making repurchases of, our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, to reduce leverage and increase liquidity, finance the 42 expansion of our operations and for general corporate purposes. In addition, covenants in our 2007 Credit Facility restrict our ability to pay dividends and make certain other payments. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. Moreover, the interests of our principal stockholder may conflict with interests of our other stockholders. As of January 1, 2012, Fortress beneficially owned approximately 39.6% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Fortress will continue to have effective control over fundamental and significant corporate matters and transactions, including but not limited to: the election of directors; mergers, consolidations or acquisitions; the sale of all or substantially all of our assets (or any portion thereof) and other decisions affecting our capital structure; the amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws; and our dissolution. The interests of Fortress may not always coincide with our interests or the interest of our other stockholders. For example, Fortress could delay, deter or prevent acts that may be favored by our other stockholders such as hostile takeovers, changes in control and changes in management. As a result of such actions, the market price of our common stock could decline or stockholders might not receive a premium for their shares in connection with a change of control transaction. Fortress has the right to, and has no duty to abstain from exercising such right to, engage or invest in the same or similar business as us. Fortress, together with its affiliates, has other business activities in addition to their ownership of us. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, Fortress has the right to, and has no duty to abstain from exercising such right to, engage or invest in the same or similar business as us, do business with any of our clients, customers or vendors or employ or otherwise engage any of our officers, directors or employees. If Fortress or any of its affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors or employees acquire knowledge of a potential transaction that could be a corporate opportunity, they have no duty to offer such corporate opportunity to us, our stockholders or our affiliates. In the event that any of our directors and officers who is also a director, officer or employee of Fortress acquires knowledge of a corporate opportunity or is offered a corporate opportunity, provided that this knowledge was not acquired solely in such person’s capacity as our director or officer and such person acted in good faith, such person is deemed to have fully satisfied such person’s fiduciary duty and is not liable to us if Fortress pursues or acquires such corporate opportunity or if such person did not present the corporate opportunity to us. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. We have a number of anti-takeover devices in place that can hinder takeover attempts, including: • a staggered board of directors consisting of three classes of directors, each of whom serves a three-year term; • removal of directors only for cause and only with the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote; • blank-check preferred stock; 43 • provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws preventing stockholders from calling special meetings or acting by written consent in lieu of a meeting (with the exception of Fortress, so long as Fortress beneficially owns at least 50% of our issued and outstanding common stock); • advance notice requirements for stockholders with respect to director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and • no provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock can elect all the directors standing for election. Our 2007 Credit Facility currently limits our ability to enter into certain change of control transactions, the occurrence of which would constitute an event of default. However, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders in certain situations, will not apply to us. This may make it easier for a third party to acquire an interest in some or all of us with Fortress’ approval, even though our other stockholders may not deem such an acquisition beneficial to their interests. We are a holding company and our access to the cash flow of our subsidiaries is subject to restrictions imposed by our indebtedness. We are a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we own in our direct subsidiary, GateHouse Media Holdco, Inc. (“Holdco”), through which we indirectly own equity interests in our operating subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and have no obligation to make funds available to us. Holdco and certain of its subsidiaries are parties to our 2007 Credit Facility, which imposes restrictions on their ability to make loans, dividend payments or other payments to us. Any payments of dividends to us are subject to the satisfaction of certain financial conditions set forth in our 2007 Credit Facility. Our ability to comply with these conditions may be affected by events that are beyond our control. We expect future borrowings by our subsidiaries to contain restrictions or prohibitions on the payment of dividends to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 