ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this prospectus before making a decision to invest in our units. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Subject to our initial objective of acquiring a business in the financial services industry, we have not yet selected a target business with which to consummate a business combination. As a result, we are unable to ascertain the merits or risks of the business in which we may ultimately operate. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and an investor could lose all or part of his investment. 18 Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, there is no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results to date. Therefore, our ability to begin operations is dependent upon obtaining financing through the public offering of our securities. Since we do not have an operating history, there is no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to consummate a business combination. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. If we are forced to dissolve and/or liquidate before a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders may receive less than $8.00 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. We must consummate a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of acquisition (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters' discount), or $77,600,000, excluding accrued interest not released to us to fund working capital requirements, or execute a letter of intent agreement in principle or definitive agreement by October 17, 2008 and, in any event, our corporate existence will cease on April 17, 2009 if we do not obtain stockholder approval to extend our existence in connection with the approval of a business combination. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time frames and are forced to dissolve and/or liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution may be less than $8.00. Furthermore, there will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless if we dissolve and/or liquidate before the consummation of a business combination. If we are unable to find a suitable target acquisition that would result in a business combination, the funds being held in the trust account may not be returned to investors for quite some time. We may not be able to find a suitable target acquisition which would result in a business combination. In such event, we will not be required to dissolve and liquidate until October 17, 2008, although our corporate existence will cease in any event on April 17, 2009 except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating pursuant for Section 278 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. As a result, in the event we fail to find a suitable target acquisition, the funds being held in the trust account may not be returned to investors for as long as two years plus the time required to effect our dissolution and/or liquidation. If we do not timely consummate a business combination or execute a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement by the October 17, 2008 deadline, we will be required to dissolve, but such dissolution requires the approval of holders of a majority of our outstanding stock in accordance with Delaware law. Without this stockholder approval, we will not be able to dissolve and liquidate until at least after our corporate existence ceases on April 17, 2009. If we do not consummate a business combination or execute a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement by the October 17, 2008 deadline, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that our corporate powers will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and we will not be able to engage in any other business activities. Pursuant to Delaware law, our dissolution also requires the affirmative vote of stockholders owning a majority of our then outstanding common stock. In order to solicit such stockholder approval: (i) our board of directors will cause to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting forth the board of directors' recommendation that we dissolve; (ii) we would expect that on the date that the board of directors adopts such recommendation, we 19 would file the preliminary proxy statement with the SEC; (iii) if the SEC does not review or notify us that they will review the preliminary proxy statement, then approximately 10 days following the filing of the preliminary proxy statement, we will mail a definitive proxy statement to our stockholders, and approximately 30 days following the date of such mailing we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our dissolution; and (iv) if the SEC does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive their comments approximately 30 days following the filing of the preliminary proxy statement. We will mail a definitive proxy statement to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty), and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our dissolution. In the event that we do not initially obtain approval for our dissolution by stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding common stock, we will continue to take all reasonable actions to obtain such approval, which may include adjourning the meeting from time to time to allow us to obtain the required vote and retaining a proxy solicitation firm to assist us in obtaining such vote. However, we cannot guarantee that our stockholders will approve our dissolution in a timely manner or ever approve our dissolution. If we are not able to obtain approval from a majority of our stockholders, we cannot liquidate until at least April 17, 2009 and we will not be able to distribute funds from our trust account to holders of our common stock sold in the offering until after such date. If the proceeds to us from our initial public offering not held in the trust account together with interest earned on the trust account available to us are insufficient to allow us to operate until at least April 17, 2009, we may not be able to consummate a business combination. We currently believe that the funds outside the trust account available to us from the proceeds of our initial public offering together with up to $1,600,000 of interest earned on the trust account that may be released to us will be sufficient to allow us to operate until at least April 17, 2009, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure investors that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of these funds to pay due diligence costs in connection with a potential business combination or to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target acquisition. We could also use a portion of these funds as a down payment or to fund a "no-shop" provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target acquisitions from "shopping" around for transactions with others on terms more favorable to such target acquisitions) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into such a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target acquisition and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to any other potential target acquisitions. Investors will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to consummate a business combination with an unidentified target acquisition, we may be deemed to be a "blank check" company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC promptly following consummation of our initial public offering including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies, such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to these rules, including Rule 419, we have a longer period of time to consummate a business combination in certain circumstances than we would if we were subject to such rule. 20 Unlike most other blank check offerings, we allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which certain investors may not agree, and certain investors may not receive the full amount of their original investment upon exercise of their conversion rights. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our private stockholders with respect to any shares they owned prior to the consummation of our initial public offering) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. We will consummate the initial business combination only if the following two conditions are met: (i) a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination and (ii) public stockholders owning 30% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering do not vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights. Most other blank check companies have a conversion threshold of 20%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their initial business combination. Thus, because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their conversion rights, it will be easier for us to consummate an initial business combination with a target business which certain investors may believe is not suitable for us, and certain investors may not receive the full amount of their original investment upon exercise of their conversion rights. Unlike most other blank check offerings, we allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. The ability of a larger number of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our private stockholders with respect to any shares they owned prior to the consummation of our initial public offering) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata share of the trust account. Unlike most other blank check offerings which have a 20% threshold, we allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. In the event that the acquisition involves the issuance of our stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our stock to make up for a shortfall in funds. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders will be less than the $8.00 per share held in the trust account. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Upon our dissolution, we will be required, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law Sections 280 and 281, to pay or make reasonable provision to pay all claims and obligations of the company. These claims may include contingent or conditional claims and claims of directors and officers entitled to indemnification under our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation. 21 We intend to pay any claim, to the extent sufficient to do so, from our funds not held in the trust account. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our management would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and would only enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver if management believed that such third party's engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. In addition, creditors may seek to interfere with the distribution process under state or federal creditor and bankruptcy laws. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders. We cannot assure investors that the per-share distribution from the trust account will not be less than $8.00 (of which approximately $0.24 per share is attributable to the deferred underwriters' discount), plus interest accrued not released to us to fund working capital requirements, due to such claims, or that there will not be delays in addition to those imposed by our duties to comply with Delaware General Corporation Law procedures and federal securities laws and regulations. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure investors we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least $8.00 per share. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until April 17, 2009. If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection thereto, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder's pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability 22 of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after April 17, 2009 and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We cannot assure investors that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such date. Accordingly, we cannot assure investors that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a "preferential transfer" or a "fraudulent conveyance." As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after April 17, 2009, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of our creditors. We cannot assure investors that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. Since we have not yet selected any target acquisition with which to consummate a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business' operations. Our stockholders currently have no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target acquisition. Although our management will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target acquisition, we cannot assure investors that they will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure investors that an investment in our units will ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in a target acquisition. Except for the limitation that a target acquisition have a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters' discount) at the time of the acquisition, we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. We may issue shares of our capital stock, including through convertible debt securities, to consummate a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 70,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. Currently there are approximately 35,925,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants) and the 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no current commitment, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to 23 consummate a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: •may significantly reduce equity interest for investors; •may subordinate the rights of holders of our common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; •will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and •may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our ability to successfully consummate a business combination and to be successful thereafter will be largely dependent upon the efforts of Gordon A. McMillan, our Chairman, Andrew A. McKay, our Chief Executive Officer, John Anderson, our Chief Financial Officer, and Philip Armstrong, Robert C. Hain, Stephen T. Moore and Robert Penteliuk, our directors. Our ability to successfully consummate a business combination is largely dependent upon the efforts of Gordon A. McMillan, our Chairman, Andrew A. McKay, our Chief Executive Officer, John Anderson, our Chief Financial Officer, and Philip Armstrong, Robert C. Hain, Stephen T. Moore and Robert Penteliuk, our directors, as well as the relationship we have with JovFunds. We have not entered into employment or consultant agreements with Messrs. McMillan, McKay, Anderson, Armstrong, Hain, Moore or Penteliuk, or obtained "key man" life insurance on their lives. The loss of any of Messrs. McMillan's, McKay's or Anderson's services or of those of any of our outside directors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully achieve our business objectives, including seeking a suitable target business with which to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors will allocate only a portion of their business time to our company, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. None of our officers and directors are obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If an officer or director is required to devote more substantial amounts of time to his other businesses and affairs, it could limit his ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure investors that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with additional entities that are, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. None of our officers or directors have been or currently are a principal of, or affiliated or associated with, a blank check company. However, our officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with additional entities, including other "blank check" companies which may be engaged in activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties or other contractual obligations. 24 Specifically, Mr. Penteliuk, one of our directors, is a principal of Genuity Capital Markets, a subsidiary of Genuity Financial Group. Genuity Capital Markets is a registered broker dealer which provides financial advisory services to its clients, which may also be appropriate for presentation to us. In addition, Mr. McMillan is the Chairman of the Board of JovFunds Management Inc., a Canadian asset management firm and one of our initial stockholders. Mr. Anderson is Chief Financial Officer of Impax Energy Services Income Trust, Mr. Armstrong is a director of JovFunds and the President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Jovian Capital Corporation, a TSX Venture Exchange-listed company which invests in financial services companies and is the parent company of JovFunds. Mr. Hain is the Chairman of City Financial Investment Company Limited, a London based investment firm primarily focused on providing mutual funds and for individual investors in the United Kingdom, Europe and the Middle East and Mr. Moore is a trustee of CI Financial Income Fund. Accordingly, our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure investors that any of these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Genuity Financial Group and its subsidiaries are under no legal or contractual obligation to identify acquisition opportunities or perform any other services on our behalf and Genuity Financial Group and its subsidiaries may take actions that conflict with our interests. Robert Penteliuk, a member of our board, is a principal of Genuity Capital Markets, a subsidiary of Genuity Financial Group. Because of this relationship, Mr. Penteliuk may, in the course of his financial services activities, help us to identify potential acquisition candidates. However, Mr. Penteliuk, Genuity Financial Group and its subsidiaries do not act as financial advisor to us and are under no legal or contractual obligation to perform these or any other services on our behalf. Mr. Penteliuk, Genuity Financial Group and its subsidiaries may present acquisition opportunities to others before they present these opportunities to us. Acquisition candidates brought to our attention through Mr. Penteliuk may include clients of Genuity Financial Group or its subsidiaries and Genuity Financial Group and its subsidiaries may have contractual, fiduciary or other obligations to these clients which may be inconsistent with, or adverse to, our interests and the interests of our stockholders. In addition, nothing precludes Mr. Penteliuk, Genuity Financial Group or its subsidiaries from representing, investing in or participating in other blank check entities or other companies that compete with us for acquisition candidates. Finally, while no such agreement or arrangement is currently in place or contemplated, Genuity Financial Group or its subsidiaries would not be prohibited from earning a fee in connection with our initial business combination which could lead to a conflict of interest for Mr. Penteliuk. Jovian Capital Corporation and its subsidiaries are under no legal or contractual obligation to perform any services on our behalf and they may take actions that conflict with our interests. Philip Armstrong, a member of our board, is the Chief Executive Officer and President and a director of Jovian Capital Corporation. Because of his position with Jovian Capital Corporation, Mr. Armstrong may become aware of potential acquisition candidates that might be appropriate for us. Mr. Armstrong has fiduciary duties to Jovian Capital Corporation which may conflict with our interests. Mr. Armstrong, Jovian Capital Corporation and its subsidiaries may have pre-existing fiduciary and contractual obligations to other parties which may conflict with our interests. For example, in the course of his duties for Jovian Capital Corporation, Mr. Armstrong may identify an acquisition candidate which could be appropriate for us, but he might be required to present that opportunity to Jovian Capital Corporation as a result of his fiduciary obligations to Jovian Capital Corporation and its subsidiaries. In addition, nothing prohibits Mr. Armstrong, Jovian Capital Corporation or its subsidiaries from investing in or participating in other blank check entities or other companies that compete with us for acquisition candidates. Neither Mr. Armstrong nor Jovian Capital Corporation is under any contractual obligation to perform any services on our behalf. 25 If we were to engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships with our existing stockholders, directors or officers, it may raise potential conflicts. If we were to engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships with our existing stockholders, directors or officers, it may raise potential conflicts. In particular, Robert Penteliuk, in his capacity as financial advisor to clients of Genuity Financial Group and its subsidiaries, may present us with acquisition opportunities on behalf of those clients and, although no agreement or arrangement is currently in place or contemplated, Genuity Financial Group and its subsidiaries would not be prohibited from earning a fee in connection with our initial business combination. Also, the completion of a business combination between us and an entity owned by a business in which one of our directors or officers may have an interest could enhance their prospects for future business from such client. For example, because one of our directors is a principal of Genuity Capital Markets, another director is President and Chief Executive Officer of Jovian Capital Corporation and a director of JovFunds, and because our Chairman is Chairman of the Board of JovFunds, each may have a conflict of interest in determining whether to recommend a business combination in which our officers or directors may have an interest. In order to avoid such potential conflicts, we will not enter into a business combination with our officers, directors or private stockholders, or an entity affiliated with any of them. Our current officers and directors may resign upon consummation of a business combination. Upon consummation of a business combination, the role of our officers and directors in the target business cannot presently be fully ascertained. While it is possible that one or more of our officers and directors will remain in senior management or as directors following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. If we acquire a target business in an all cash transaction, it would be more likely that our officers and certain of our directors would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company, following a business combination, it may be less likely that our officers or directors would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. If, as a condition to a potential business combination, our officers negotiate to be retained after the consummation of the business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. The ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, we will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business' management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain of our officers and directors remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company after the consummation of the business combination. Although we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure investors that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. The shares of common stock and warrants owned by our private stockholders, officers and directors will not participate in liquidation distributions, and a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular target acquisition is appropriate for a business combination. TFC Holdings Ltd., an entity owned 97% by Parkwood Holdings Ltd. and 3% by our outside directors, Parkwood Holdings Ltd., and our officers and directors beneficially own, in the aggregate, 3,125,000 shares of our common stock and 4,700,000 warrants but have waived their right to receive distributions (other than with respect to units they purchased in our initial public offering or common stock or warrants they purchase in the aftermarket) upon our dissolution and liquidation prior to a business combination. These shares and warrants will be worthless if we do not consummate a business 26 combination. In addition, the 3,125,000 shares of common stock and 4,700,000 warrants are held in escrow and may not be transferred until the first anniversary of the consummation of a business combination and ninety days after consummation of a business combination, respectively. The personal and financial interests of our private stockholders, officers and directors, including their interest in releasing these transfer restrictions and in releasing their common stock and warrants from escrow may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, the discretion of our private stockholders, officers and directors in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our public stockholders' best interest. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC's penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock will be subject to the "penny stock" rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: •make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; •receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; •provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in "penny stocks" and which describe the market for these "penny stocks" as well as a purchaser's legal remedies; and •obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a "penny stock" can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and our investors may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Initially, we may only be able to consummate one business combination, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Of the proceeds from our initial public offering and the private placement of warrants, $100,000,000 is held in the trust account and may be used by us to consummate a business combination. Our business combination must be with a business having a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters' discount) at the time of such acquisition. We have no limitation on our ability to raise additional funds through the sale of securities or the incurrence of indebtedness that would enable us to consummate a business combination with an operating business having a fair market value in excess of 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters' discount) at the time of such an acquisition. We have not entered into any such fundraising arrangement and have no current intention of doing so. Consequently, initially it is possible that we will have the ability to consummate only a single business combination. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including insufficient financing or the difficulties involved in consummating the contemporaneous acquisition of more than one operating company, as is required by our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Therefore, it 27 is possible that we will have the ability to consummate a business combination with only a single operating business, which may have only a limited number of products or services. The resulting lack of diversification may: •result in our dependency upon the performance of a single or small number of operating businesses; •result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services; and •subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to consummate several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry so as to diversify risks and offset losses. Further, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of the initial target business or businesses we acquire. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate a business combination during the prescribed time period. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies and operating businesses competing for the types of businesses that we intend to primarily focus on. Many of these individuals and entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and consummating, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of companies in the financial services industry. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge, than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous target businesses that we could potentially acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target businesses that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Also, our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we are unable to consummate an initial business combination within the prescribed time period, we will be forced to dissolve and/or liquidate. We will depend on the proceeds of our initial public offering not placed in the trust account and interest on the trust account available to us to fund our search for a target business or businesses and to consummate our initial business combination. We will depend on the $100,000 of proceeds of our initial public offering not placed in the trust account and up to $1,600,000 of interest earned on the trust account and released to us to provide us with working capital that we may need to identify one or more target businesses and to consummate our initial business combination. This may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to obtain additional funds from our initial stockholders or another source to continue operations. 28 Our private stockholders, including our directors and officers, may vote shares of common stock they acquired in or following our initial public offering on a proposed business combination any way they choose. In connection with the stockholder vote required for a business combination, all of our private stockholders, including our directors, have agreed to vote the shares of common stock owned by them immediately before our initial public offering in accordance with the majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders. Any common stock acquired by private stockholders in the offering or the aftermarket will be considered part of the holdings of the public stockholders. These private stockholders will have the same rights as other public stockholders with respect to such shares, including voting and conversion rights in connection with a potential business combination. Accordingly, they may vote such shares on a proposed business combination any way they choose. Our private stockholders, including our directors and officers, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our private stockholders (including our directors and officers), collectively own approximately 20.0% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these stockholders will have the ability to influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote, for example, the election of directors. Our staggered board may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. As a result, at any annual meeting only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election. Since our "staggered board" would prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our board of directors at any annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to consummate a business combination. In connection with our initial public offering, we issued warrants to purchase up to 12,500,000 shares of common stock. In addition, our initial stockholders and their affiliates own 4,700,000 warrants purchased in a private placement immediately prior to consummation of our initial public offering. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to consummate a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target acquisition. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to consummate the business combination. Therefore, our warrants may make it more difficult to consummate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target acquisition. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, our investors may experience dilution to their holdings. 29 If our private stockholders exercise their registration rights, such exercise may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of the registration rights may make it more difficult to consummate a business combination. Our private stockholders are entitled to make a demand that we register the resale of their shares of common stock at any time commencing three months prior to the date on which their shares are released from escrow. If our private stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock, there will be an additional 3,125,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market (as well as up to 4,700,000 additional shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the 4,700,000 warrants). The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make it more difficult to consummate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target acquisition, as the stockholders of the target acquisition may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of the registration rights may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to consummate a business combination, or we may be required to incur additional expenses if we are unable to dissolve after the expiration of the allotted time periods. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to consummate a business combination, including: •restrictions on the nature of our investments; and •restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: •registration as an investment company; •adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and •reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. To this end, the proceeds held in the trust account may be invested by the trust agent only in United States "government securities" within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 with a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Our proposed target acquisition company could itself be an investment company. Although our target acquisition might include a hedge fund or a fund of funds, or a company that buys, manages and sells real estate properties on behalf of separate account clients and commingled investment pools, in these cases we would acquire a controlling interest which would not be a security for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (for example, a general partner interest in a partnership). We also might acquire an investment adviser to a hedge fund, fund of funds or a real estate asset manager. In none of these cases would the target company fall within the definition of an investment company under Section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act. If we were to acquire an adviser to an investment company, then the Investment Company Act would apply to the relationship 30 between the adviser and the investment company. For example, under Section 15 of the Investment Company Act, the advisory contract between the adviser and the investment company would be subject to approval of a majority of the investment company's stockholders. If we are deemed to be an investment company at any time, we will be required to comply with additional regulatory requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940 which would require additional expenses for which we have not budgeted. We may or may not obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party as to the fair market value of a target acquisition or that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our stockholders. Pursuant to our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation which we will file with the Delaware Secretary of State prior to consummation of the offering, our board of directors is not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that either the target acquisition we select has a fair market value in excess of 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters' discount) or that the price we are paying is fair to stockholders unless either (i) the board of directors is not able to independently determine that the target acquisition has a sufficient fair market value, or (ii) a conflict of interest exists with respect to the transaction. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment of our board of directors regarding the valuation of the target acquisition. There may be tax consequences associated with our acquisition, holding and disposition of target companies and assets. We may incur significant taxes in connection with effecting acquisitions; holding, receiving payments from, and operating target companies and assets; and disposing of target companies and assets. There is no guarantee that a market for our securities will be maintained, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. Investors have access to information from only a relatively short period of our prior market history. The price of our securities may vary significantly due to reports of operating losses, one or more potential business combinations, the filing of periodic reports with the SEC and general market or economic conditions. Furthermore, an active trading market for our securities may not be sustained. Our investors may be unable to sell their securities unless a market can be sustained. The American Stock Exchange may require us to submit a new listing application, subject to the initial listing requirements, in connection with a business combination, or may delist our securities from trading on its exchange, which could limit investors' ability to effect transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot guarantee that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future. In addition, in connection with a business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange in the future, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: •a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; 31 •determination that our common stock is a "penny stock," which would require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; •more limited amount of news and analyst coverage for us; •decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and •decreased ability of our security holders to sell their securities in certain states. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. We may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units (including the warrants sold in the private placement) at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days' prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to be practically worthless. No warrant will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants comprising the units to be sold in the offering is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, the warrants may have no value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the warrants may expire worthless. Because we may acquire a company located outside of the United States, we may be subject to various risks of the foreign jurisdiction in which we ultimately operate in. If we acquire a company that has sales or operations outside the United States, we could be exposed to risks that negatively impact our future sales or profitability following a business combination, including: •tariffs and trade barriers; •regulations related to customs and import/export matters; •tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; 32 •government instability; •different or inadequate banking systems; •currency fluctuations; •foreign exchange controls; •restrictions on the repatriation of profits or payment of dividends; or •nationalization or expropriation of property. We may be subject to taxation in Canada, which would increase our operating expenses for which we have limited funds available. By virtue of maintaining an office in Canada, we may be subject to taxation in Canada, including Canadian income taxation. As a result, our aggregate tax liabilities in any particular taxation year may exceed the tax liabilities that would have arisen if we did not have an office or other permanent establishment in Canada. Canadian taxation legislation also differs in many material respects from tax legislation currently enacted in the United States, which may give rise to additional tax liabilities. These taxes may increase our operating expenses and we have limited funds available outside the trust account. Because any target business with which we attempt to complete a business combination will be required to provide our stockholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with and reconciled to United States generally accepted accounting principles, the pool of prospective target businesses may be limited. In accordance with the requirements of United States federal securities laws, in order to seek stockholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards. To the extent that a proposed target business does not have financial statements which have been prepared with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. GAAP, and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses. We are located outside the United States and, if we acquire one or more Canadian financial services businesses, our assets would be located and a number of our directors and officers would be resident outside the United States, which may hinder service of process or make it impossible, difficult or more costly for an investor to enforce a judgment granted by a United States court against us or such persons. We are incorporated under the laws of Delaware, but our head office is located and a number of our directors and officers may be resident in Canada. If we acquire one or more Canadian financial services businesses, a number of our directors and officers may be resident in Canada and a substantial portion of their assets and substantially all of our assets will be located in Canada. As a result, it may be difficult for an investor to effect service of process within the United States upon the directors and officers who are not residents of the United States. It may also be difficult for an investor to enforce judgments in the courts of the United States, including those based upon the civil liability under United States federal securities laws, against us where damages exceed the realizable value of U.S.-based assets or against directors and officers who are not residents of the United States. Therefore, judgments against us or such persons may have to be enforced in Canada and may be subject to additional defenses or may result in additional costs to the party seeking to enforce a judgment as a result. 33 Claim brought in Canadian courts, where appropriate, may be subject to defenses not available in actions in courts of the United States or may result in additional costs or different damages being awarded to the party bringing the claim. If we acquire one or more Canadian financial services businesses, we may incur additional costs due to currency exchange and we could experience gains or losses solely on changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. Dollar and the Canadian Dollar. If we make an acquisition of a Canadian financial services business in Canadian Dollars, fluctuation in the U.S./Canadian Dollar exchange rate could affect the cost of acquisition because our cash assets are in U.S. Dollars. For example, an increase in the value of the Canadian Dollar relative to the U.S. Dollar would result in our paying a higher U.S. Dollar purchase price because we would be required to convert more U.S. Dollars to buy the necessary amount of Canadian Dollars to fund the purchase price. If we acquire one or more Canadian financial services businesses with our cash assets, our assets, liabilities and earnings would be denominated in Canadian Dollars. As a result, our earnings may be affected favorably or unfavorably by changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the Canadian Dollar. For example, an increase in the value of the Canadian Dollar relative to the U.S. Dollar would result in higher profits when those profits are converted into U.S. Dollars. Conversely, a decrease in the value of the Canadian Dollar relative to the U.S. Dollar would result in lower profits when those profits are converted into U.S. Dollars. Similarly, the overall value of our assets and any Canadian Dollar liabilities would fluctuate up or down with the value of the Canadian Dollar. Fluctuations in the in the U.S./Canadian exchange rate could adversely affect the value of our shares. We may also incur transaction costs associated with exchanging Canadian Dollars into U.S. Dollars. We may manage the currency risks by hedging through forward currency contracts, currency futures, currency swap agreements or currency options, but there is no assurance that we will employ such measures or, if employed, they will effectively manage currency risk. Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include a staggered board of directors and the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. 34 Risks Related to the Financial Services Industry We may be subject to significant regulatory requirements in connection with our efforts to consummate a business combination with a financial services firm, which may result in our failure to consummate our initial business combination within the required time frame and may force us to liquidate. The Canadian Competition Act provides that pre-merger notification filings must be submitted in connection with mergers and acquisitions that meet certain asset and revenue thresholds, including where the assets or revenues of an acquired business exceed C$50,000,000. A notifiable transaction cannot ordinarily close until the expiration of a waiting period of either 14 or 42 days following notification, depending on the type of filing submitted, unless the parties obtain an advance ruling certificate. Moreover, acquisitions of Canadian businesses by non-Canadians may be subject to review by Industry Canada and Ministerial approval; in the case of an investment to acquire control of a Canadian business that provides any financial service, the threshold for such review is C$5,000,000. In addition, acquisition of financial services companies are often subject to significant regulatory requirements and consents, and we will not be able to consummate a business combination with certain types of financial services companies without complying with applicable laws and regulations and obtaining required governmental and other necessary third party consents, possibly in advance of transaction consummation. For example, if we were to attempt to acquire or acquire control of a dealer or adviser in Canada, the prior approval of the securities regulatory authorities in Canada would be required. In addition, if we were to acquire or attempt to acquire control of an investment management firm in Canada, we would be required to give notice to the firm's investment management clients; whereas, in the United States, we would have to obtain consents of the firm's investment management clients or enter into new contracts with them. There is no assurance that we would be able to obtain such consents or maintain existing or enter into new contracts. Similarly, if we were to attempt to acquire certain banks, we would be required to obtain, in Canada, approval of the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions and, in the United States, the prior approval of relevant federal and state banking agencies, which may include the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Systems, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision and/or state banking commissions. In determining whether to approve applications we may file, the agencies will consider a number of factors including, but not limited to, our current and pro forma financial condition and that of the target as well as the target's compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act and the USA PATRIOT Act. In addition, even if the applications are approved, federal and state banking regulators may impose conditions on the consummation of any transaction. If our acquisition target were an insurance company, in Canada, it would be necessary to obtain approval of the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions in the case of a federally-regulated insurance company and the applicable provincial insurance regulator in the case of a provincially-regulated insurance company, and, in the United States, state insurance commissioners in the state or states where the insurance company is domiciled would review an acquisition transaction and could prevent it by withholding their consent. Similar approvals would be required in the case of an acquisition of an insurance holding company. The acquisition of a business in other sectors of the financial services industry may require similar approvals or consents. In addition, in the United States, in connection with seeking prior approval for an acquisition of a bank or insurance company in the United States or providing notice of change to such company, any individual or entity holding a 10% or greater interest in our equity may be required to participate as notificants or applicants. Moreover, any bank holding company with a 5% or greater interest in our equity may be independently required to seek approval to retain such interest following our acquisition of certain types of banks. In Canada, any individual or entity seeking to acquire more than 10% of the shares of any class of shares of a bank or federally-regulated insurance company or bank or insurance holding company must first obtain approval of the Minister of Finance (by way of application to the Office of Superintendent of Financial Institutions). Moreover, there are different ownership restrictions 35 based on size thresholds that are applicable to larger banks and insurance companies. In the United States, there exists a presumption of "control" when an acquiring party acquires 10% or more (5% or more, in the case of Florida) of the voting securities of an insurance company or insurance holding company. Therefore, any person acquiring 10% or more (5% or more, in the case of Florida) of common stock or other voting securities of such a company would need the prior approval of the state insurance regulators in the state or states in which such company is domiciled or commercially domiciled. We may not receive any such required approvals or we may not receive them in a timely manner, including as a result of factors or matters beyond our control. Satisfying any requirements of regulatory agencies may delay the date of our consummation of our initial business combination beyond the required time frame (October 17, 2008 or April 17, 2009 if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed by October 17, 2008 and the initial business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated by October 17, 2008). If we fail to consummate our initial business combination within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate. The financial services industry faces substantial regulatory and litigation risks and conflicts of interest, and, after the consummation of a business combination with a company in the financial services industry, we may face legal liability and reduced revenues and profitability if our services are not regarded as compliant or for other reasons. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. Many regulators, including U.S., Canadian and other government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state and provincial securities commissions, insurance regulators and attorneys general, are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings and investigations that can result in, among other things, censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, prohibitions against engaging in some lines of business, suspension or termination of licenses or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, investment adviser or insurance distributor. The requirements imposed by regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers, policyholders and other third parties who deal with financial services firms and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Regulations and investigations may result in limitations on our activities, such as the restrictions imposed on several leading securities firms as part of a settlement these firms reached with federal and state securities regulators and self-regulatory organizations in 2003 to resolve investigations into equity research analysts' alleged conflicts of interest. Banks domiciled or operating in the United States and their holding companies are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by applicable federal and state banking agencies. Many of these regulations are intended to protect parties other than stockholders, such as depositors. If we were to acquire a bank, these regulations may limit our operations significantly and control the methods by which we conduct our business, including our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices and dividend policy. In addition, banks and their holding companies generally are subject to rigorous capital requirements and may be examined on a regular basis for their general safety and soundness and compliance with various federal and state legal regimes, including, but not limited to, the Community Reinvestment Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act. Failure to comply with these requirements or receive a satisfactory examination may subject a bank to informal or formal agreements, such as a memorandum of understanding, deferred prosecution agreement or cease-and-desist order, and may also result in the assessment of civil monetary penalties or the limitation of expansionary activities at both the bank and holding company levels. Canadian banks and their stockholders are subject to similar extensive regulation and supervision relating to the conduct of business, capital requirements, safety and soundness and compliance. 36 Governmental and self-regulatory organizations, including in Canada, the provincial securities commissions, such as the Ontario Securities Commission, the Investment Dealers Association and the Mutual Fund Dealers Association, and in the United States, the SEC, the FINRA and national securities exchanges such as the American Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange, impose and enforce regulations on broker-dealers, investment banking firms, investment advisers and similar financial services companies. In both Canada and the U.S., self-regulatory organizations adopt rules, subject to approval by the applicable Canadian securities regulatory authority and the SEC, respectively, that govern aspects of the financial services industry and conduct periodic examinations of the operations of registered investment dealers, broker-dealers and investment advisers. For example, Canadian investment dealers and U.S. broker-dealers are subject to rules and regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business including: sales methods and trade practices; use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities; capital structures; recordkeeping; the preparation of research; the extension of credit; and the conduct of officers and employees. The types of regulations to which investment advisers are subject are also extensive and include: minimum capital requirements (under Canadian provincial securities law), recordkeeping; fee arrangements; client disclosure; custody of customer assets; and the conduct of officers and employees. In addition, investment advisers and dealers in Canada are subject to anti-money laundering and privacy legislation. The Investment Dealers Association, the applicable Canadian securities authorities, the SEC, the FINRA and various regulatory agencies also have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities brokerage firms. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm to suspension or revocation of registration by applicable Canadian Securities authorities and SEC and suspension or expulsion from Investment Dealers Association and FINRA and other regulatory bodies, which ultimately could prevent any broker-dealers that we acquire or acquire control of from performing as a broker-dealer. In addition, a change in the net capital rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charge against net capital could limit the operations of broker-dealers, which could harm our business if we were to consummate a business combination with a securities brokerage firm. Similar capital requirements apply to insurance companies. In the United States, under laws adopted by individual states, insurers engaged in certain lines of business are subject to risk based capital requirements. Insurers having less total adjusted capital than that required under the risk based capital laws are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, depending on the level of capital inadequacy. Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus is also considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities. Failure by an insurance company to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny and enforcement. In addition, insurance companies are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they do business. For example, in the United States, state insurance departments have broad powers with respect to such things as: licensing companies to transact business; authorizing lines of business; imposing dividend limitations; licensing agents and distributors of insurance products; restricting companies' ability to enter and exit markets; mandating certain insurance benefits; restricting companies' ability terminate or cancel coverage; requiring companies to provide certain types of coverage; regulating premium rates, including the ability to increase premium rates; approving policy forms; regulating trade, marketing, sales and claims practices; imposing privacy requirements; establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards; restricting certain transactions between affiliates; and regulating the type, amounts and valuation of investments. The regulatory environment in which we will operate is also subject to modifications and further regulations. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to us also may adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes. For example, in the United States recently the insurance industry has been subject to a significant level of scrutiny by various regulatory bodies, including state attorneys general and insurance departments, concerning 37 certain practices within the insurance industry. These practices include, without limitation, the receipt of contingent commissions by insurance brokers and agents from insurance companies and the extent to which such compensation has been disclosed, bid rigging and related matters. As a result of these and related matters, including actions taken by the New York State Attorney General, there have been a number of proposals to modify various provincial and state laws and regulations and industry practices and guidelines regarding insurance agents and brokers, including proposals by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, that could impose additional legal obligations, including disclosure obligations, on us if we were to offer insurance or other financial products. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services firms has been increasing. After our initial business combination, our engagement agreements or arrangements may include provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be adhered to in all cases. We may also be subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or harassment, among other things. The risk of significant legal liability is often difficult to assess or quantify and its existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business. Financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts of interest. We will need to adopt various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, these policies, controls and procedures may result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. After the consummation of our initial business combination, we will face strong competition from financial services firms, many of whom have the ability to offer clients a wider range of products and services than we may be able to offer, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. After consummation of our initial business combination in the financial services industry, we will compete with other firms—both domestic and foreign—on a number of factors, including the quality of our employees, transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. We may fail to attract new business and we may lose clients if, among other reasons, we are not able to compete effectively. We will also face significant competition as result of a recent trend toward consolidation in this industry. In the past several years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. In particular, since the passage of the Gramm- Leach-Bliley Act in 1999, which reduced barriers to banks providing a wide range of financial services, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products such as loans, deposit-taking and insurance, brokerage, investment management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenue in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure on other businesses. We believe, in light of increasing 38 industry consolidation and the regulatory overhaul of the financial services industry, that competition will continue to increase from providers of financial services products. The financial services industry has inherent risks, which may affect our net income and revenues. The financial services business is, by its nature, subject to numerous and substantial risks, including volatile trading markets and fluctuations in the volume of market activity. Consequently, our net income and revenues are likely to be subject to wide fluctuations, reflecting the effects of many factors, including: general economic conditions; securities market conditions; the level and volatility of interest rates and equity prices; competitive conditions; liquidity of global markets; international and regional political conditions; regulatory and legislative developments; monetary and fiscal policy; investor sentiment; availability and cost of capital; technological changes and events; outcome of legal proceedings; changes in currency values; inflation; credit ratings; and the size, volume and timing of transactions. These and other factors could affect the stability and liquidity of securities and futures markets, and the ability of issuers, other securities firms and counterparties to perform their obligations. A reduced volume of securities and futures transactions and reduced market liquidity generally results in lower revenues from principal transactions and commissions. Lower price levels for securities may result in a reduced volume of transactions and may also result in losses from declines in the market value of securities held in proprietary trading and underwriting accounts, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets, or in markets influenced by sustained periods of low or negative economic growth, including the risk of losses resulting from the ownership of securities, trading and the failure of counterparties to meet commitments. In particular, if we consummate a business combination with an investment management firm, our business could be expected to generate lower revenue in a market or general economic downturn. Under a typical arrangement for an investment management business, the investment advisory fees we could receive would be based on the market value of the assets under management. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities would be expected to cause our revenue and income to decline by: •causing the value of the assets under management to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory fees; •causing negative absolute performance returns for some accounts which have performance-based incentive fees, resulting in a reduction of revenue from such fees; or •causing some of our clients to withdraw funds from our investment management business in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity and lower risk, which also would result in lower investment advisory fees. Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in regulatory action against us or limit our growth. Financial services businesses are dependent on communications and information systems, including those of vendors. Any failure or interruption of these systems, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise, could materially adversely affect operating results. After the consummation of a business combination, we will need to continue to make investments in new and enhanced information systems. Interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities or adverse consequences from implementing new or enhanced systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our common stock and warrants. As our information system providers revise and upgrade their hardware, software and equipment technology, we may encounter difficulties in integrating these new technologies into our business. Additionally, our systems may be subject to infiltration by unauthorized persons. If our systems or facilities were infiltrated and damaged by unauthorized persons, our clients could experience 39 data loss, financial loss and significant business interruption. If that were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many financial services firms face credit risks which, if not properly managed, could cause revenues and net income to decrease. Many types of financial services firms, including banks and broker-dealers, lend funds to their customers. Among the risks all lenders face is the risk that some of their borrowers will not repay their loans. The ability of borrowers to repay their obligations may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, including local and general economic and market conditions. A substantial portion of the loans may be secured by liens on real estate or securities. These same factors may adversely affect the value of real estate and securities as collateral. If we enter into a business combination with a firm that makes loans, we would maintain an allowance for loan losses to reflect the level of losses determined by management to be inherent in the loan portfolio. However, the level of the allowance and the amount of the provisions would only be estimates based on management's judgment and regulatory guidance, and actual losses incurred could materially exceed the amount of the allowance or require substantial additional provisions to the allowance, either of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 