ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following describes risks that we believe to be material to our business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. This report also contains forward-looking statements and the following risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to Our Business The beauty products distribution industry is highly competitive and is consolidating. The beauty products distribution industry is highly fragmented, and there are few significant barriers to entry into the marketplaces for most of the types of products and services we sell. Sally Beauty Supply competes with other domestic and international beauty product wholesale and retail outlets, including local and regional open line beauty supply stores, professional-only beauty supply stores, salons, mass merchandisers, drug stores and supermarkets. BSG competes with other domestic and international beauty product wholesale and retail suppliers and with manufacturers selling professional beauty products directly to salons and individual salon professionals. We also face competition from authorized and unauthorized retailers as well as e-commerce retailers offering professional salon-only and other products. The availability of diverted professional salon products in unauthorized large format retail stores such as drug stores, grocery stores and others could have a negative impact on our business. The primary competitive factors in the beauty products distribution industry are the price at which we purchase branded and 17 Table of Contents exclusive-label products from manufacturers, the quality, perceived value, consumer brand name recognition, packaging and mix of the products we sell, customer service, the efficiency of our distribution network, and the availability of desirable store locations. Competitive conditions may limit our ability to maintain prices or may require us to reduce prices in efforts to retain business or marketplace share. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do and are less leveraged than our business, and may therefore be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions. We expect existing competitors, business partners and new entrants to the beauty products distribution industry to constantly revise or improve their business models in response to challenges from competing businesses, including ours. If these competitors introduce changes or developments that we cannot address in a timely or cost-effective manner, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, our industry is consolidating, which may give our competitors increased negotiating leverage with suppliers and greater marketing resources, resulting in a more effective ability to compete with us. For instance, we may lose customers if those competitors which have broad geographic reach attract additional salons (individual and chain) that are currently BSG customers, or if professional beauty supply manufacturers align themselves with our competitors. For example, BSG's largest supplier, L'Oreal, has been able to shift a material amount of revenue out of the BSG nationwide distribution network and into its own competitive regional distribution networks. L'Oreal has also acquired one manufacturer (that does not currently do business with BSG) and distributors which compete directly with BSG in the southeastern U.S., the midwestern U.S. and the west coast of the U.S. As a result, L'Oreal directly competes with BSG and there can be no assurance that there will not be further revenue losses over time at BSG, due to potential losses of additional L'Oreal related products as well as from the increased competition from L'Oreal-affiliated distribution networks. If L'Oreal (or another direct competitor) were to acquire or otherwise merge with another manufacturer which conducts business with BSG, we could lose that revenue as well. Not only does consolidation in distribution pose risks from competing distributors, but it may also place more leverage in the hands of those manufacturers to negotiate smaller margins on products sold through our network. If we are unable to compete effectively in our marketplace or if competitors divert our customers away from our networks, it would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and buying trends or manage our product lines and inventory commensurate with consumer demand. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely manner to changes in consumer spending patterns and preferences for specific beauty products. If we do not timely identify and properly respond to evolving trends and consumer demands in the marketplace for beauty products and changing consumer demands our sales may decline significantly and we may be required to mark down unsold inventory to prices which can be significantly lower than normal prices, which would adversely impact our margins and could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we depend on our inventory management and information technology systems in order to replenish inventories and deliver products to store locations in response to customer demands. Any systems-related problems could result in difficulties satisfying the demands of customers which, in turn, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. We expect the aging baby boomer population to drive future growth in professional beauty supply sales through an increase in the use of hair color and hair loss products. Additionally, we expect continuously changing fashion-related trends that drive new hair styles to result in continued demand for hair styling products. Changes in consumer tastes and fashion trends can have an impact on our financial performance. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to trends in the marketplace for beauty products and changing consumer demands, our business could suffer. 18 Table of Contents Our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance, including: •changes in our merchandising strategy or mix; •the performance of our new stores; •our ability to increase sales and meet forecasted levels of profitability at our existing stores; •the effectiveness of our inventory management; •the timing and concentration of new store openings, including additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening and other start-up costs; •levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; •the effect of our integration of acquired businesses and stores over time; •the varying cost and profitability of new stores opened in the U.S. and in foreign countries; •a portion of a typical new store's sales (or sales we make over the internet channel) coming from customers who previously shopped at other existing stores; •expenditures on our distribution system; •the timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities, particularly our Sally Beauty Club and ProCard promotions; •seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; •the level of sales made through our internet channels; •actions by our existing or new competitors; •fluctuations over time in the cost to us of products we sell; and •worldwide economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment in the U.S. Accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable store sales for any particular future period may not continue to increase at the same rates as we have recently experienced and may even decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend upon manufacturers who may be unable to provide products of adequate quality or who may be unwilling to continue to supply products to us. We do not manufacture any products we sell, and instead purchase our products from recognized brand manufacturers and private label fillers. We depend on a limited number of manufacturers for a significant percentage of the products we sell. During the fiscal year 2011, our five largest suppliers were Procter & Gamble Co., or P&G, the Professional Products Division of L'Oreal USA S/D, Inc., or L'Oreal, Conair Corporation, John Paul Mitchell Systems and Shiseido Cosmetics (America) Limited and accounted for approximately 42% of our consolidated merchandise purchases. In addition, BSG's largest supplier, L'Oreal, represented approximately 16% of BSG's merchandise purchases during the fiscal year 2011. Since we purchase products from many manufacturers and fillers under at-will contracts and contracts which can be terminated without cause upon 90 days notice or less, or which expire without express rights of renewal, manufacturers and fillers could discontinue sales to us immediately or upon short notice. Some of our contracts with manufacturers may be terminated if we fail to meet specified minimum purchase 19 Table of Contents requirements. If minimum purchase requirements are not met, we do not have contractual assurances of continued supply. In lieu of termination, a manufacturer may also change the terms upon which it sells, for example, by raising prices or broadening distribution to third parties. Infrequently, a supplier will seek to terminate a distribution relationship through legal action. For these and other reasons, we may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities or on acceptable terms in the future. Changes in Sally Beauty Supply's and BSG's relationships with suppliers occur often, and could positively or negatively impact the net sales and operating profits of both business segments. Some of our suppliers may seek to decrease their reliance on distribution intermediaries, including full-service/exclusive and open-line distributors like BSG and Sally Beauty Supply, by promoting their own distribution channels, as discussed above. These suppliers may offer advantages, such as lower prices, when their products are purchased from distribution channels they control. If our access to supplier-provided products were to diminish relative to our competitors or we were not able to purchase products at the same prices as our competitors, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Also, consolidation among suppliers may increase their negotiating leverage, thereby providing them with competitive advantages that may increase our costs and reduce our revenues, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. As discussed above, L'Oreal directly competes with BSG, and there can be no assurance that there will not be revenue losses over time at BSG, due to potential losses of additional L'Oreal related products as well as from the increased competition from L'Oreal-affiliated distribution networks. For example, L'Oreal could attempt to terminate our contracts to carry certain of their products in BSG stores, which accounted for approximately $108.0 million in U.S. sales for the fiscal year 2011 and expire in 2012. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the impact of these developments, if they were to occur, will not adversely impact revenue to a greater degree than we currently expect or that our efforts to mitigate the impact of these developments will be successful. If the impact of these developments is greater than we expect or our efforts to mitigate the impact of these developments are not successful, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although we plan to mitigate the negative effects resulting from potential unfavorable changes in our relationships with suppliers, such as L'Oreal, there can be no assurance that our efforts will partially or completely offset the loss of these distribution rights. Any significant interruption in the supply of products by manufacturers and fillers could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores and customers in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Manufacturers and exclusive-label fillers of beauty supply products are subject to certain risks that could adversely impact their ability to provide us with their products on a timely basis, including inability to procure ingredients, industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, union organizing activity, disruptions in logistics or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, and licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external factors over which neither they nor we have control. In addition, our operating results depend to some extent on the orderly operation of our receiving and distribution processes, which depend on manufacturers' adherence to shipping schedules and our effective management of our distribution facilities and capacity. If a material interruption of supply occurs, or a significant manufacturer or filler ceases to supply us or materially decreases its supply to us, we may not be able to acquire products with similar quality and consumer brand name recognition as the products we currently sell or to acquire such products in sufficient quantities to meet our customers' demands or on favorable terms to our business, any of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents If products sold by us are found to be defective in labeling or content, our credibility and that of the brands we sell may be harmed, marketplace acceptance of our products may decrease, and we may be exposed to liability in excess of our products liability insurance coverage and manufacturer indemnities. We do not control the production process for the products we sell. We may not be able to identify a defect in a product we purchase from a manufacturer or exclusive-label filler before we offer such product for resale. In many cases, we rely on representations of manufacturers and fillers about the products we purchase for resale regarding whether such products have been manufactured in accordance with applicable governmental regulations. Our sale of certain products exposes us to potential product liability claims, recalls or other regulatory or enforcement actions initiated by federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities or through private causes of action. Such claims, recalls or actions could be based on allegations that, among other things, the products sold by us are misbranded, contain contaminants or impermissible ingredients, provide inadequate instructions regarding their use or misuse, or include inadequate warnings concerning flammability or interactions with other substances. Claims against us could also arise as a result of the misuse by purchasers of such products or as a result of their use in a manner different than the intended use. We may be required to pay for losses or injuries actually or allegedly caused by the products we sell and to recall any product we sell that is alleged to be or is found to be defective. Any actual defects or allegations of defects in products sold by us could result in adverse publicity and harm our credibility or the credibility of the manufacturer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we may have indemnification rights against the manufacturers of many of the products we distribute and rights as an "additional insured" under the manufacturers' insurance policies, it is not certain that any manufacturer or insurer will be financially solvent and capable of making payment to any party suffering loss or injury caused by products sold by us. Further, some types of actions and penalties, including many actions or penalties imposed by governmental agencies and punitive damages awards, may not be remediable through reliance on indemnity agreements or insurance. Furthermore, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of indemnity or insurance coverage or be excluded under the terms of an indemnity agreement or insurance policy and claims for indemnity or reimbursement by us may require us to expend significant resources and may take years to resolve. If we are forced to expend significant resources and time to resolve such claims or to pay material amounts to satisfy such claims, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be adversely affected if we do not comply with laws and regulations or if we become subject to additional or more stringent laws and regulations. We are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations in the U.S., as well as applicable laws and regulations in each foreign marketplace in which we do business. These laws and regulations govern the composition, packaging, labeling and safety of the products we sell, as well as the methods we use to sell and import these products. Non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations of governmental authorities, including the FDA and similar authorities in other jurisdictions, by us or the manufacturers and fillers of the products sold by us could result in fines, product recalls and enforcement actions, and otherwise restrict our ability to market certain products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The laws and regulations applicable to us or manufacturers of the products sold by us may become more stringent. Continued legal compliance could require the review and possible reformulation or relabeling of certain products, as well as the possible removal of some products from the marketplace. Legal compliance could also lead to considerably higher internal regulatory costs. Manufacturers may try to recover some or all of any increased costs of compliance by increasing the prices at which we purchase products, and we may not be able to recover some or all of such increased cost in our own prices to our customers. We are also subject to state and local laws and regulations that affect our franchisor-franchisee relationships. Increased compliance costs and the loss of sales of certain products due to more stringent or new laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Laws and regulations impact our business in many areas that have no direct relation to the products we sell. For example, as a public company, we are subject to a number of laws and regulations related to the disclosure of financial and other information about us, as well as the issuance and sale of our securities. Another area of intense regulation is that of the relationships we have with our employees, including compliance with many different wage and hour and nondiscrimination related regulatory schemes. Violation of any of the laws or regulations governing our business or the assertion of individual or class-wide claims could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product diversion could have an adverse impact on our revenues. The majority of the products that BSG sells, including those sold by our Armstrong McCall franchisees, are meant to be used exclusively by salons and individual salon professionals or are meant to be sold exclusively by the purchasers, such as salons, to their retail consumers. However, despite our efforts to prevent diversion, incidents of product diversion occur, whereby our products are sold by these purchasers (and possibly by other bulk purchasers such as franchisees) to wholesalers and ultimately to general merchandise retailers, among others. These retailers, in turn, sell such products to consumers. The diverted product may be old, tainted or damaged and sold through unapproved outlets, all of which could diminish the value of the particular brand. In addition, such diversion may result in lower net sales for BSG should consumers choose to purchase diverted products from retailers rather than purchasing from our customers, or choose other products altogether because of the perceived loss of brand prestige. In the BSG arena, product diversion is generally prohibited under our manufacturers' contracts, and we are often under a contractual obligation to stop selling to salons, salon professionals and other bulk purchasers which engage in product diversion. If we fail to comply with our anti-diversion obligations under these manufacturers' contracts, (including any known diversion of products sold through our Armstrong McCall franchisees), these contracts could be adversely affected or even terminated. In addition, our investigation and enforcement of our anti-diversion obligations may result in reduced sales to our customer base, thereby decreasing our revenues and profitability. BSG's financial results are affected by the financial results of BSG's franchised-based business (Armstrong McCall). BSG receives revenue from products purchased by Armstrong McCall franchisees. Accordingly, a portion of BSG's financial results is to an extent dependent upon the operational and financial success of these franchisees, including their implementation of BSG's strategic plans. If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for Armstrong McCall's franchisees, their financial results may worsen. Additionally, the failure of Armstrong McCall franchisees to renew their franchise agreements, any requirement that Armstrong McCall restructure its franchise agreements in connection with such renewals, or any failure of Armstrong McCall to meet its obligations under its franchise agreements, could result in decreased revenues for BSG or create legal issues with our franchisees or with manufacturers. Our internet-based business may be unsuccessful or may cause internal channel conflict. We offer many of our beauty products for sale through our websites in the U.S. (such as www.sallybeauty.com, www.cosmoprofbeauty.com and www.ebobdirect.com) and abroad. Therefore, we encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced in internet-based businesses, including risks related to our ability to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis and our ability to operate, support, expand and develop our internet operations, websites and software and other related operational systems. In addition, our internet-based business may reduce the financial performance of our Sally Beauty Supply and other stores. For example, customers may choose to shop online rather than purchasing products from our Sally Beauty Supply stores. Although we believe that our participation in both e-commerce and physical store sales is a distinct advantage for us due to synergies and the potential for new customers, conflicts between these offerings could create issues that have the potential to adversely affect our results 22 Table of Contents of operations. For example, such conflict could cause some of our current or potential internet customers to consider competing distributors of beauty products. These events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully identify acquisition candidates or successfully complete desirable acquisitions. In the past several years, we have completed multiple acquisitions and we intend to pursue additional acquisitions in the future. We actively review acquisition prospects which would complement our existing lines of business, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates. If suitable candidates are identified, sufficient funds may not be available to make such acquisitions. We compete against many other companies, some of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Increased competition for acquisition candidates could result in fewer acquisition opportunities and higher acquisition prices. In addition, we are highly leveraged and the agreements governing our indebtedness contain limits on our ability to incur additional debt to pay for acquisitions. Additionally, the amount of equity that we can issue to make acquisitions or raise additional capital is severely limited. We may be unable to finance acquisitions that would increase our growth or improve our financial and competitive position. To the extent that debt financing is available to finance acquisitions, our net indebtedness could increase as a result of any acquisitions. If we acquire any businesses in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business or have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Any acquisitions that we do make may be difficult to integrate profitably into our business and may entail numerous risks, including: •difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, stores or products, including the loss of key employees from acquired businesses; •difficulties and costs associated with integrating and evaluating the distribution or information systems and/or internal control systems of acquired businesses; •expenses associated with the amortization of identifiable intangible assets; •problems retaining key technical, operational and administrative personnel; •diversion of management's attention from our core business, including loss of management focus on marketplace developments; •complying with foreign regulatory requirements, including multi-jurisdictional competition rules and restrictions on trade/imports; •enforcement of intellectual property rights in foreign countries; •adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, including the potential loss of suppliers of the acquired businesses; •operating inefficiencies and negative impact on profitability; •entering geographic areas or channels in which we have limited or no prior experience; and •those related to general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by U.S. companies in particular. In addition, during the acquisition process, we may fail or be unable to discover some of the liabilities of businesses that we acquire. These liabilities may result from a prior owner's noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. Acquired businesses may also not perform as we expect or we may not be able to obtain the expected financial improvements in the acquired businesses. 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to profitably open and operate new stores, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our future growth strategy depends in part on our ability to open and profitably operate new stores in existing and additional geographic areas. The capital requirements to open a U.S.-based Sally Beauty Supply or BSG store, excluding inventory, average approximately $70,000 and $80,000, respectively, with the capital requirements for international stores costing less or substantially more depending upon the marketplace. Despite these relatively low opening costs, we may not be able to open all of the new stores we plan to open and any new stores we open may not be profitable, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. There are several factors that could affect our ability to open and profitably operate new stores, including: •the inability to identify and acquire suitable sites or to negotiate acceptable leases for such sites; •proximity to existing stores that may reduce the new store's sales or the sales of existing stores; •difficulties in adapting our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores; •the potential inability to obtain adequate financing to fund expansion because of our high leverage and limitations on our ability to issue equity under our credit agreements, among other things; •increased (and sometimes unanticipated) costs associated with opening stores in international locations; •difficulties in obtaining any governmental and third-party consents, permits and licenses; •limitations on capital expenditures which may be included in financing documents that we enter into; and •difficulties in adapting existing operational and management systems to the requirements of national or regional laws and local ordinances. In addition, as we continue to open new stores, our management, as well as our financial, distribution and information systems, and other resources will be subject to greater demands. If our personnel and systems are unable to successfully manage this increased burden, our results of operations may be materially affected. The health of the economy in the channels we serve may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as beauty products and salon services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and internationally. Concerns over inflation, employment, energy costs, geopolitical issues, terrorism, the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage market, sovereign and private banking systems, sovereign deficits and increasing debt burdens and the real estate and other financial markets in the U.S. and Europe have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S. and certain foreign economies. We appeal to a wide demographic consumer profile and offer a broad selection of beauty products sold directly to retail consumers and salons and salon professionals. Continued uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionary items such as beauty products, as well as adversely impact the frequency of salon services performed by professionals using products purchased from us. Factors that could affect consumers' willingness to make such discretionary purchases include: general business conditions, levels of employment, interest rates, tax rates, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. In the event of a prolonged economic downturn or acute recession, consumer spending habits could be adversely affected and we could experience lower than expected net sales. In addition, a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory. The 24 Table of Contents economic climate could also adversely affect our vendors. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are not certain that our ongoing cost control plans will continue to be successful. Our business strategy substantially depends on continuing to control or reduce operating expenses. In furtherance of this strategy, we have engaged in ongoing activities to reduce or control costs, some of which are complicated and require us to expend significant resources to implement. We cannot assure you that our efforts will result in the increased profitability, cost savings or other benefits that we expect, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, specifically our trademarks and service marks, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The success of our business depends to a certain extent upon the value associated with our intellectual property rights. We own certain trademark and service mark rights used in connection with our business including, but not limited to, "Sally," "Sally Beauty," "Sally Beauty Supply," "Sally Beauty Club Card," "BSG," "CosmoProf," "Proclub," "Armstrong McCall," "ion," "Beyond the Zone" and "Salon Services." We protect our intellectual property rights through a variety of methods, including, but not limited to, applying for and obtaining trademark protection in the U.S., Canada and other countries throughout the world in which our business operates. We also rely on trade secret laws, in addition to confidentiality agreements with vendors, employees, consultants and others who have access to our proprietary information. While we intend to vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement, we may not be successful. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. The costs required to protect our intellectual property rights and trademarks are expected to continue to be substantial. Our ability to conduct business in international marketplaces may be affected by legal, regulatory and economic risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international marketplaces and to grow or maintain our current level of operations in our existing international marketplaces is subject to risks associated with our international operations. These risks include: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, trade barriers to some international marketplaces, economic and foreign currency fluctuations, potential difficulties in enforcing contracts, increasing levels of violence or terrorism, an inability to properly protect assets (including intellectual property), an inability to collect receivables, potential tax liabilities associated with repatriating funds from foreign operations and difficulties and costs of staffing, managing and accounting for foreign operations. We may be adversely affected by any disruption in our information technology systems. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. We rely upon such information technology systems to manage and replenish inventory, to fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis, to coordinate our sales activities across all of our products and services and to coordinate our administrative activities. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged time period (arising from, for example, system capacity limits from unexpected increases in our volume of business, outages or delays in our service) could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. Our systems might be damaged or interrupted by natural or man-made events (caused by us, by our service providers or others) or by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions affecting the internet. Such delays, problems or costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As our operations grow in both size and scope, we continuously need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure while maintaining their reliability and integrity. The expansion of our systems and 25 Table of Contents infrastructure will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before the volume of our business increases, with no assurance that the volume of business will increase. For example, we are in the process of designing and implementing a standardized ERP system internationally over the next few years. In addition, we are currently implementing new point-of-sale systems in a number of our divisions, which we anticipate will provide significant benefits, including enhanced tracking of customer sales. These and any other required upgrades to our systems and information technology, or new technology, now and in the future, will require that our management and resources be diverted from our core business to assist in meeting implementation objectives. Many of our systems are proprietary, and as a result our options are limited in seeking third-party help with the operation and upgrade of those systems. There can be no assurance that the time and resources our management will need to devote to operations and upgrades, any delays due to the installation of any upgrade (and customer issues therewith), any resulting service outages, or the impact on the reliability of our data from any upgrade or any legacy system, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The occurrence of natural disasters or acts of violence or terrorism could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. The occurrence of natural disasters or acts of violence or terrorism could result in physical damage to our properties, the temporary closure of stores or distribution centers, the temporary lack of an adequate work force, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products (or a substantial increase in the cost of those products) from domestic or foreign suppliers, the temporary disruption in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers (or a substantial increase in the cost of those deliveries), the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores, and/or the temporary reduction in visits to stores by customers. If one or more natural disasters or acts of violence or terrorism were to impact our business, we could, among other things, incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing products. Furthermore, insurance costs associated with our business may rise significantly in the event of a large scale natural disaster or act of violence or terrorism. Our accounting and other management systems, controls and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we are subject. As a publicly-traded company, we are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act and other federal securities regulations, such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. These obligations place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting resources. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We also have significant compliance costs under SEC and New York Stock Exchange rules and regulations. In addition, as a public company we are subject to rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require us to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our management's report on, and assessment of, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of such internal controls. If we fail to properly assess and/or achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, there is a risk that we will not comply with Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to help prevent financial fraud. Any adverse finding could result in a negative reaction in the financial marketplace due to loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our securities. To comply with these requirements, we are continuously upgrading our systems, including information technology systems, and implementing additional financial and management controls and disclosure processes, reporting systems and procedures. These and any other modifications to our financial and management controls and disclosure processes, reporting systems, information technology systems and procedures under the financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to us, now and in the 26 Table of Contents future, will require that our management and resources be diverted from our core business to assist in compliance with the requirements. There can be no assurance that the time and resources our management will need to devote to the requirements, any delays due to the installation of any upgrade, any resulting service outages, and any impact on the reliability of our data from an upgrade will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are a holding company with no operations of our own, and we depend on our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company and do not have any material assets or operations other than ownership of equity interests of our subsidiaries. Our operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries, and our ability to generate cash to meet our obligations or to pay dividends is highly dependent on the earnings of, and receipt of funds from, our subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans. The ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us and them to make scheduled payments on our obligations will depend on their future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. We cannot assure you that the cash flow and earnings of our operating subsidiaries will be adequate for our subsidiaries to service their debt obligations. If our subsidiaries do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy corporate obligations, we may have to: undertake alternative financing plans (such as refinancing), restructure debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any such alternative refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales, that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or that additional financing would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future that may severely restrict or prohibit our subsidiaries from making distributions, paying dividends or making loans to us. Risks Relating to Our Substantial Indebtedness We have substantial debt and may incur substantial additional debt, which could adversely affect our financial health, our ability to obtain financing in the future and our ability to react to changes in our business. In connection with the Separation Transactions, certain of our subsidiaries, including Sally Holdings LLC, which we refer to as Sally Holdings, incurred approximately $1,850.0 million in debt. As of September 30, 2011, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $1,413.1 million, including capital lease obligations, of outstanding debt, and a total debt to equity ratio of -6.45:1.00. Our substantial debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; •restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to us, which could limit our ability to conduct repurchases of our own equity securities or pay dividends to our stockholders, thereby limiting our ability to enhance stockholder value through such transactions; 27 Table of Contents •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations (because a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest), including borrowings under our senior secured term loan facilities and our asset-backed senior secured loan facility, which we refer to collectively as the senior secured credit facilities; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with proportionately less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates and that, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; •limit our ability to refinance indebtedness or cause the associated costs of such refinancing to increase; and •limit our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures, or prevent us from carrying out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins or our business. Any of the foregoing impacts of our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt, including secured debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the instruments governing our indebtedness do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. As of September 30, 2011, our senior credit facilities provided us commitments for additional borrowings of up to approximately $366.5 million under the asset-backed senior secured loan (or ABL) facility, subject to borrowing base limitations. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we face would increase, and we may not be able to meet all our debt obligations. In addition, the agreements governing our senior credit facilities as well as the indentures governing our senior notes and senior subordinated notes, which we refer to collectively as the Notes, do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business. The senior secured term loan facilities, which we refer to as the Term Loans, contain covenants that, among other things, restrict Sally Holdings and its subsidiaries' ability to: •dispose of assets; •incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees of additional indebtedness); •pay dividends, repurchase stock or make other distributions; •make voluntary prepayments on the Notes or make amendments to the terms thereof; •prepay certain other debt or amend specific debt agreements; •create liens on assets; •make investments (including joint ventures); •make acquisitions of all of the business or assets of, or stock representing beneficial ownership of, any person; •engage in mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of Sally Holdings' assets; •engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and •permit restrictions on Sally Holdings subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends to Sally Holdings. 28 Table of Contents The ABL credit facility contains covenants that, among other things, restrict Sally Holdings and its subsidiaries' ability to: •change their line of business; •engage in certain mergers, consolidations and transfers of all or substantially all of their assets; •make certain dividends, stock repurchases and other distributions; •make acquisitions of all of the business or assets of, or stock representing beneficial ownership of, any person; •dispose of certain assets; •make voluntary prepayments on the Notes or make amendments to the terms thereof; •prepay certain other debt or amend specific debt agreements; •change the fiscal year of Sally Holdings or its direct parent; and •create or incur negative pledges. The Term Loans contain a requirement that Sally Holdings not exceed a maximum ratio of net senior secured debt to consolidated EBITDA (as those terms are defined in the relevant credit agreement). In addition, if Sally Holdings fails to maintain a specified minimum level of borrowing capacity under the ABL credit facility, it will then be obligated to maintain a specified fixed-charge coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which in turn will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will also depend substantially on the pricing of our products, our success at implementing cost reduction initiatives and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. The indentures governing the Notes also contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of Sally Holdings and its restricted subsidiaries to: •dispose of assets; •incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees of additional indebtedness); •pay dividends, repurchase stock or make other distributions; •prepay subordinated debt; •create liens on assets (which, in the case of the senior subordinated notes, would be limited in applicability to liens securing pari passu or subordinated indebtedness); •make investments (including joint ventures); •engage in mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of Sally Holdings' assets; •engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and •permit restrictions on Sally Holdings' subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends. The restrictions in the indentures governing our Notes and the terms of our senior credit facilities may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot assure you that our subsidiaries, which are borrowers under these agreements, will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if they are unable to comply with these agreements, or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 29 Table of Contents Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the senior credit facilities and the indentures for the Notes may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants and restrictions could result in a default under either the senior credit facilities or the indentures that would permit the applicable lenders or note holders, as the case may be, to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay debt, lenders having secured obligations, such as the lenders under the senior credit facilities, could proceed against the collateral securing the debt. In any such case, our subsidiaries may be unable to borrow under the senior credit facilities and may not be able to repay the amounts due under the Term Loans and the Notes. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to service all of our debt and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance our obligations under, our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the financial and business factors, many of which may be beyond our control, described under "—Risks Relating to Our Business" above. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, particularly because of our high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt, as well as prevailing market conditions. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior credit facilities and the indentures governing the Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions. We cannot assure you we will be able to consummate those sales, or if we do, what the timing of the sales will be or whether the proceeds that we realize will be adequate to meet debt service obligations when due. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. A significant portion of our outstanding debt, including under our senior credit facilities, bears interest at variable rates. As a result, an increase in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or a decrease in our creditworthiness, would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. The impact of such an increase would be more significant for us than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial debt. The impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. We have exposure to different counterparties with regard to our interest rate swaps. These transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. We also have exposure to financial institutions used as depositories of our corporate cash balances. If our counterparties and financial institutions become impaired or insolvent, this could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Separation from Alberto-Culver and Relating To Our Largest Stockholder If the share distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock in the transactions separating us from Alberto-Culver did not constitute a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, or if we became liable for additional taxes owed by Alberto-Culver, then we may be responsible for payment of significant U.S. federal income taxes. The following discussion describes the risk that the share distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock in the Separation Transactions may have triggered significant tax liabilities for us, which could result in a material adverse effect on us. In connection with the share distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock in the separation, we received: (i) a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and (ii) an opinion of Sidley Austin LLP, counsel to Alberto-Culver, in each case, to the effect that the transactions qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code and a distribution eligible for non-recognition under Sections 355(a) and 361(c) of the Code. The private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel were based, in part, on assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by, among others, Alberto-Culver, us and representatives of Mrs. Carol L. Bernick, Mr. Leonard H. Lavin and certain of our other stockholders whom we refer to as the Lavin family stockholders, as requested by the IRS or counsel, which, if incorrect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by the IRS and counsel. The private letter ruling also did not address certain material legal issues that could affect its conclusions, and reserved the right of the IRS to raise such issues upon a subsequent audit. Opinions of counsel neither bind the IRS or any court, nor preclude the IRS from adopting a contrary position. If the Alberto-Culver share distribution were not to qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code, we would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the Alberto-Culver common stock distributed to our stockholders over our tax basis in such Alberto-Culver common stock. Even if the Alberto-Culver share distribution otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code, it would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to us if there was an acquisition of our stock or the stock of Alberto-Culver as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Alberto-Culver share distribution and that results in an acquisition of 50% or more of Alberto-Culver's or our outstanding common stock. In the event that we recognize a taxable gain in connection with the Alberto-Culver share distribution (either: (i) because the Alberto-Culver share distribution did not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code, or (ii) because of an acquisition by CDR Investors of 50% or more of Alberto-Culver or our outstanding common stock as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Alberto-Culver share distribution), the taxable gain recognized by us would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to us. Under the Code, we would be jointly and severally liable for these taxes for which Alberto-Culver may be required to indemnify us under the tax allocation agreement, and there can be no assurance that Alberto-Culver would be able to fulfill its obligations under the tax allocation agreement if Alberto-Culver was determined to be responsible for the taxes thereunder. The process for determining whether a prohibited change in control has occurred under the rules is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. If Alberto-Culver did not carefully monitor its, or we did not carefully monitor our, compliance with these rules, this might inadvertently cause or permit a prohibited change in the ownership of us or of Alberto-Culver to occur, thereby triggering Alberto-Culver's or our respective obligations to indemnify the other pursuant to the tax allocation agreement, which would have a material adverse effect on us. If any of the above events occur, we will be jointly and severally liable for these taxes, and there can be no assurance that Alberto-Culver would be able to fulfill its indemnification obligations to us under the tax allocation agreement if Alberto-Culver was determined to be responsible for these taxes thereunder. In addition, these mutual indemnity obligations could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire us. 31 Table of Contents Actions taken by the Lavin family stockholders or by the CDR investors could adversely affect the tax-free nature of the share distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock in connection with the transactions separating us from Alberto-Culver. Sales and/or acquisitions by the Lavin family stockholders of our common stock or Alberto-Culver's common stock may adversely affect the tax-free nature of the share distribution of Alberto-Culver's common stock in the Separation Transactions. First, with certain exceptions, sales by the Lavin family stockholders of our common stock or Alberto-Culver's common stock at any time after the Separation Transactions might be considered evidence that the share distribution was used principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits, particularly if the selling stockholder was found to have an intent to effect such sale at the time of the share distribution. If the IRS successfully asserted that the share distribution was used principally as such a device, the share distribution would not qualify as a tax-free distribution, and thus would be taxable to us. Second, with certain exceptions, if any of the Lavin family stockholders had sold an amount of our common stock that it received in connection with the Separation Transactions (or acquired additional shares of our common stock) within the two year period following completion of the Alberto-Culver share distribution, and that amount of stock, if added to the common stock that was acquired by CDR Investors were to equal or exceed 50% of our outstanding common stock, as determined under the Code and applicable Treasury regulations, a deemed acquisition of control of us in connection with the Alberto-Culver share distribution would be presumed. If this presumption were not rebutted, we would be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, which, if not reimbursed by Alberto-Culver, would have a material adverse effect on us. The CDR Investors own a significant percentage of our common stock which may discourage third party acquisitions of us at a premium, and the interests of the CDR Investors may differ from the interests of other holders of our common stock. The CDR Investors currently own approximately 35.5%, in the aggregate on an undiluted basis, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Pursuant to the stockholders agreement entered into by us, the CDR Investors and certain other stockholders, which we refer to as the Stockholders Agreement, CDRS currently has the right to designate four of our eleven directors. CDRS' right to nominate a certain number of directors will continue so long as it owns specified percentages of our common stock. So long as the CDR Investors continue to have influence over the election of our directors or directly or indirectly own a significant percentage of the outstanding shares of our common stock, the CDR Investors will continue to be able to strongly influence our decisions. The CDR Investors' ownership of our common stock and their ability to influence our decisions may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of us and may preclude holders of our common stock from receiving any premium above market price for their shares that may otherwise be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of us. Furthermore, the interests of the CDR Investors may differ from those of other holders of our common stock in material respects. For example, the CDR Investors may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings, re-financings, stockholder dividends or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their overall equity portfolio or the short-term value of their investment in us, even though such transactions might involve substantial risks to other holders of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 32 Table of Contents 