ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report and in any documents incorporated in this report by reference. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SERVICES & BRANDS We continue to evolve our business strategy and develop new brands and services, and prospects are difficult to evaluate. We are in varying development stages of our business, so our prospects must be considered in light of the many risks, uncertainties, expenses, delays, and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of development. Additionally, we have limited operating history of our owned websites in the United States market. Some of the risks and difficulties we expect to encounter include our ability to: · manage and implement new business strategies; · successfully commercialize and monetize our assets; · successfully attract advertisers for our owned and operated websites, and clients for our content and platform services; · continue to raise additional working capital; · manage our expense structure as a U.S. public company including, without limitation, compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley and Dodd Frank Acts; · manage the anticipated rise in operating expenses; · establish and take advantage of contacts and strategic relationships; · adapt to our potential diversification into other content verticals and service offerings; · manage and adapt to rapidly changing and expanding operations; · implement and improve operational, financial and management systems and processes; · respond effectively to competitive developments; · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and · manage each of the other risks set forth in this report. Because of our lack of operating history in the United States and the early stage of development of our business, we cannot be certain that our business strategy will be successful or that it will successfully address these risks. Any failure by us to successfully implement our new business plans could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our operating performance will suffer and our financial condition could be adversely affected. Substantial future growth will be required in order for us to realize our business objectives. To the extent we are capable of achieving this growth, it will place significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Additionally, this growth will require us to make significant expenditures, establish, train and manage a larger work force, and allocate valuable management resources. We must manage any such growth through appropriate systems and controls in each of these areas. If we do not manage the growth of our business effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The expansion of our Brands segments into new category verticals subjects us to additional business, legal, financial and competitive risks. A key component of our business strategy is to grow our network of owned and operated websites to cover a variety of category verticals to address consumer interests and needs. In doing so we will encounter a number of risks, including increased capital requirements, growth in our workforce, new competitors and development of new strategic relationships. We cannot ensure that our strategy will result in increased revenue or operating profit. Furthermore, growth into new areas may require changes to our cost structure, modifications to our infrastructure and exposure to new regulatory and legal risks, any of which may require expertise in areas in which we have little or no experience. If we cannot generate revenue as a result of our expansion into new areas that are greater than the cost of such expansion, our operating results could be negatively impacted. 9 We have and will continue to generate revenue from advertising, and the reduction in spending by or loss of advertisers could seriously harm our business. As we expand our Brands business, we will become increasingly reliant on online advertising. To date, we have had limited experience in selling online advertising. Our advertisers can generally terminate their contracts with us at any time. Advertisers will not continue to do business with us if their investment in advertising with us does not generate sales leads or if we do not deliver their advertisements in an appropriate and effective manner. If we are unable to be competitive and provide value to our advertisers, they may stop placing ads with us, which would negatively impact our revenues and business. Economic conditions, especially those associated with an emerging market or an industry where our Brands business has a focus such as banking and finance, could have a direct impact on advertising spend which would impact our revenue. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of economic issues or a subsequent economic recovery generally or in the online advertising market. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Any decreases in or delays in advertising spending due to general economic conditions could reduce our revenues or negatively impact our ability to grow our revenues. Our quarterly results of operations might fluctuate due to seasonality, which could adversely affect our growth rate and in turn the market price of our securities. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and will likely fluctuate in the future due to seasonal fluctuations in the level of Internet usage and interest in various topics of our Brands. Prolonged or severe decreases in usage during certain seasonal periods may adversely affect our growth rate and in turn the market price of our securities. In addition, we expect the revenues associated with our websites at www.irs.com and www.filelater.com to be largely seasonal in nature, with peak revenues occurring during January through April, corresponding to the U.S. tax season. If we are unable to attract and retain visitors to our web business in a cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our primary strategy for attracting and retaining users to our websites is to provide content and community-focused digital experiences. The success of these efforts depends, in part, upon our ability to create and distribute high-quality content as well as innovate and evolve our content and social media technology platforms at scale in a cost-effective manner. Failure to do so could adversely affect user experiences and reduce traffic to our owned and operated websites, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, our strategy could be flawed and might not result in the ability to attract and retain users in a cost-effective manner. A second strategy we utilize to attract traffic is the search engine optimization, (“SEO”), of our websites and the content published on them. SEO involves architecting websites with the objective of ranking well in unpaid search engine results. Our ability to successfully manage SEO efforts across our owned and operated websites is dependent on our timely and effective modification of SEO practices implemented in response to periodic changes in search engine algorithms and methodologies and changes in search query trends and our ability to offer websites and content responsive to ever-changing consumer interests and trends. Our failure to successfully manage our SEO strategy could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our owned and operated websites, or an inability to attract traffic to new websites that we launch which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if we succeed in attracting traffic to our owned and operated websites, we may not be successful in monetizing the traffic. Additionally, the costs of attracting and retaining users to our websites may exceed our ability to generate revenues from such activities, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a creator and a distributor of digital content, we face potential liability for legal claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we create or distribute, or that are accessible via our owned and operated websites. As a creator and distributor of original content and third-party provided content, we face potential liability for legal claims, including defamation, negligence, unlawful practice of a licensed profession, copyright or trademark infringement or other legal theories based on the nature, creation or distribution of this information, and under various laws, including the Lanham Act, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the Copyright Act. We may also be exposed to similar liability in connection with content that is posted to our owned and operated websites by users and other third parties through comments, profile pages, discussion forums and other social media features. In addition, it is also possible that visitors to our owned and operated websites could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance upon information provided on our owned and operated websites. Any of these claims could result in significant costs to investigate and defend, regardless of the merit of the claims. If we are not successful in our defense, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. While we run our content through a rigorous quality control process, there is no guarantee that we will avoid future liability and potential expenses for legal claims, which could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10 We may be subject to liability for information displayed by advertisers on our websites, which may affect our business. Laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their advertisers and for the content of their advertisers’ listings are currently unsettled. It is unclear whether we could be subjected to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or claims based on other theories relating to the information we publish on our websites. These kinds of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services as well as other print publications in the past. We may not successfully avoid liability for unlawful activities carried out by advertisers displayed on our websites. If we are subjected to such lawsuits, it may adversely affect our business. In addition, much of the information on websites in our personal finance vertical that is provided by advertisers and collected from third parties relates to the rates, costs and features for various loan, depositary, personal credit and investment products offered by financial institutions, mortgage companies, investment companies, insurance companies and others participating in the consumer financial marketplace. We are exposed to the risk that some advertisers may provide us, or directly post on our websites, (i) inaccurate information about their product rates, costs and features, or (ii) rates, costs and features that are not available to all consumers. This could cause consumers to lose confidence in the information provided by advertisers on our websites, and cause certain advertisers to become dissatisfied with our websites, and result in lawsuits being filed against us. Government and legal regulations have damaged our business in the past and may damage it in the future. We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. The Federal Trade Commission has recently reviewed the way in which search engines disclose paid search practices to Internet users. In 2002, the FTC issued guidance recommending that all search engine companies ensure that all paid search results are clearly distinguished from non-paid results, that the use of paid search is clearly and conspicuously explained and disclosed and that other disclosures are made to avoid misleading users about the possible effects of paid search listings on search results. The adoption of laws or regulations relating to placement of paid search advertisements or user privacy, defamation or taxation may inhibit the growth in use of the Internet, which in turn, could decrease the demand for our services and increase our cost of doing business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet or other online services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The application of new and existing laws and regulations to the Internet or other online services has had a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations in the past. For example, on April 17, 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1677, The Taxpayer Protection Act of 2007(“H.R. 1677”). Section 8 of H.R. 1677 would have amended Section 333, Title 31 of the U.S. Code to include Internet domain addresses in the prohibition on certain use of the U.S. Department of the Treasury names and symbols. Although the legislation was never passed by the Senate or signed into law and the bill ceased with the ending of the 110th Congress in January 2009, there is no guarantee that similar legislation won’t be introduced and passed into law by the current or future Congress. While the ultimate impact of any such proposed legislation is not presently determinable, if enacted, such legislation may adversely impact our overall operations. We own the Internet domain address www.irs.com, which is an acronym commonly associated with the Internal Revenue Service, a division of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. While the bill was never passed into law, if enacted, the passage of such legislation could have severely adversely affected our use of our Internet domain address www.irs.com as well as our overall operations. In the event a bill such as H.R. 1677 were to become law, we intend to be continue to be diligent in our communications with the Internal Revenue Service and Congress in an effort to mitigate any potential negative effects of such legislation. We may be subjected to large scale advertiser defections due to external organizations exerting influence. The passage of H.R. 1677 in April 2007 resulted in a modification of the 2008 Operating Agreement of the Free File Alliance and prohibited their members from advertising on the domain irs.com. The Free File Alliance is a public/private cooperative of certain online tax providers who provide certain U.S. citizens with access to free online tax preparation in cooperation with the Internal Revenue Service. Their members represent the vast majority of the online tax preparation market including TurboTax, H&R Block and TaxAct and the unexpected loss of their advertising dollars had an adverse affect on Banks.com, Inc.’s business in 2008. The Free File Alliance no longer prohibits their members from advertising on the banks.com domain but we cannot assure you that they will continue allow their members to advertise with us or that individual members will not decide on their own not to advertise with us. 11 We are subject to the extensive regulations that govern a broker-dealer. MyStockFund Securities, Inc., a broker-dealer registered with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, and a member of a self-regulatory organization, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). Broker-dealers are subject to federal and state laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers’ funds and securities, minimum net capital requirements, record-keeping and retention, anti-money laundering, privacy laws, and the conduct of their directors, officers, employees and other associated persons. Violations of the federal and state laws and regulations governing a broker-dealers actions could result in civil and criminal liability and administrative liability in the form of censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators. We face intense competition from larger, more established companies, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could reduce demand for our services. We compete for Internet advertising revenues with the personal finance sections of general interest sites such as Bankrate.com, Yahoo!Finance, and Smartmoney.com, and we will compete for Internet advertising revenues with numerous websites focusing on the 18-to-34 year old demographic. Nearly all our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Our competitors may secure more favorable revenue arrangements with advertisers, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive growth strategies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we do. In addition, the Internet media and advertising industries continue to experience consolidation, including the acquisitions of companies offering finance related content and services and paid search services. Industry consolidation has resulted in larger, more established and well-financed competitors with a greater focus. If these industry trends continue, or if we are unable to compete in the Internet media and paid search markets, our financial results may suffer. Additionally, larger companies may implement policies and/or technologies into their search engines or software that make it less likely that consumers can reach our websites and less likely that consumers will click-through on sponsored listings from our advertisers. The implementation of such technologies could result in a decrease in our revenues. If we are unable to successfully compete against current and future competitors, our operating results will be adversely affected. Historically, a few of our advertising networks and direct advertisers have provided a substantial portion of our revenue; the loss of one of these partners may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We cannot assure you that, should agreements with our advertising networks, strategic sales and marketing partners, and /or direct advertisers fail to renew or should the contracts be terminated or modified in advance of their expiration, we will be able to timely replace the sponsored listings they provide us. We have had similar agreements in the past that have failed to renew or been modified prior to their termination where our financial results were harmed. We may not succeed in marketing and monetizing our assets to potential customers or developing strategic partnerships for the distribution of our products and services. Our plans to market and monetize our assets in the United States are still relatively new, and we have limited experience in owning and operating websites in the United States. We may not be successful in establishing a customer base of our owned and operated websites or strategic partnerships for our services. If we are not successful in developing, releasing and/or marketing these owned and operated websites and services on a profitable basis, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, we may not have the resources available to simultaneously continue development of operations in China and Brazil. Accordingly, there may be a delay in developing such operations or we might decide not to pursue these markets, which could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our sublicensed content is subject to the terms and conditions of agreements between HowStuffWorks and third parties. Under the terms of our contribution agreements, HowStuffWorks transferred and contributed to us all rights, but only those rights, that belong to and are held by HowStuffWorks pursuant to third party licenses. Some of those licenses, including those with Publications International, Ltd., contain restrictions on the use of content and termination provisions for breaches of the license agreements. Accordingly, a breach of any third party license by HowStuffWorks may cause us to lose our license with such third party, which could have a material adverse effect on the implementation of our business plan, value of our content offering, financial condition, results of our operations and cash flows. 12 We may not have sufficient liquidity to support our operations. As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s total cash and cash equivalents balance was approximately $1.4 million. The Company has incurred net losses and generated substantial negative cash flow from operations in the twelve months ended December 31, 2012 and in each fiscal year since its inception and has an accumulated deficit of $105.8 million as of December 31, 2012. The Company had minimal revenues in 2012 due to the termination of certain agreements in the Content and Platform Services segment at the end of 2011 and its transition to owning and operating its own digital media properties. Since that time, the Company has been focused on building and acquiring wholly owned digital media properties for its Brands segment and pursuing new services agreements with new customers for its Content and Platform Services segment. On November 13, 2012, the Company entered into a Services Agreement with TheStreet Inc. (Nasdaq: TST) (“TheStreet”) in which Remark Media granted TheStreet an exclusive right to sell and serve advertisement and e-commerce on certain of Remark Media’s personal finance websites. TheStreet will also support the websites by providing personal finance content, various promotion and advertisements on TheStreet’s websites, and marketing support. The Company expects the agreement to provide at least $0.9 million in payments to the Company over the initial term of the agreement. On November 23, 2012, the Company entered into a $1.8 million Term Loan Agreement, at a 6.67% annual interest rate with a lender controlled by and in part owned by Mr. Kai-Shing Tao, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Tao has been a director of the Company since 2007. The Term Loan is secured by substantially all the tangible and intangible assets of the Company, excluding its shares of common stock of Sharecare. The principal and accrued interest under the Term Loan Agreement is convertible into Common Stock of the Company at the rate of $1.30 per share, which represents an approximately 33% premium to the average closing prices of the Company’s common stock for the ten days prior to entrance into the agreement and an approximately 53% premium to the closing price of the Company’s Common Stock on the day of entrance into the agreement. The full balance is due November 2014. On April 2, 2013, the Company entered into a $4.0 million Promissory Note, at a 6.67% annual interest rate for the first year and 8.67% for the second year, with a lender controlled by and in part owned by Mr. Kai-Shing Tao, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The Promissory Note is secured pursuant to the Term Loan Agreement detailed above, as amended by Amendment Number One to that Term Loan Agreement, dated April 2, 2013. The principal and accrued interest under the Promissory Note is convertible into Common Stock of the Company at the rate of $2.00 per share, which represents an approximately 11% premium to the average closing prices of the Company’s common stock for the ten days prior to entrance into the agreement and an approximately 8% premium to the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the day of entrance into the agreement. The full balance is due April 2015. If these two notes are not converted into Common Stock of the Company, or if the Company’s shareholders do not approve the ability to convert the April 2013 $4 million Promissory Note into Common Stock of the Company, the Company may be in a position where it is unable to repay the notes. Finally the Company has taken steps to reduce operating costs, primarily payroll through a reduction in personnel associated with its Content and Platform Services segment, which will result in a decline in annual salary expense of approximately $1.2 million. The Company will continue to evaluate other opportunities to control costs. The Company intends to fund its future operations through revenue growth in its Brands segment, particularly its personal finance and 18-to-34 year old lifestyle properties. Additionally, the Company is actively engaged in evaluating future acquisitions to provide revenue growth and the sale of certain non-core assets to provide capital. Absent any acquisitions of new businesses, the addition of new customers, or the material increase in revenue from its existing customers, current revenue growth may not be sufficient to sustain the Company’s operations in the long term. As such, the Company may need to obtain additional equity financing and/or divest of certain assets or businesses, neither of which can be assured on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, any equity financing that might be obtained would substantially dilute existing stockholders. There is no certainty that the Company will be successful at raising capital, nor is there certainty around the amount of funds that may be raised. In addition, the success of the Company will be subject to performance of the markets and investor sentiment regarding the macro and micro economic conditions under which we operate including stock market volatility. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful at generating more revenues or selling any of its assets. Any failure by the Company to successfully implement these plans would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, including the possible inability to continue operations. Based on the Company’s current financial projections, which incorporate the Services Agreement with TheStreet, the Term Loan Agreement and the Promissory Note, and the reduction in expenses, all discussed above, the Company believes it has sufficient existing cash resources to fund operations through December 2013. However, projecting operating results is inherently uncertain. Anticipated expenses can exceed those that are projected, and proceeds under TheStreet Agreement 13 could be delayed or not meet expectations. Accordingly, the Company’s cash resources could be fully utilized prior to December 2013. The market price of our stock is likely to be volatile and various factors could negatively affect the market price or market for our common stock. The market for and price of our common stock could be affected by the following factors: · general market and economic conditions; · our common stock has been thinly traded; and · minimal third party research is available regarding our company. Additionally, the terms of the Discovery Merger provided that payment to HowStuffWorks stockholders for a significant portion of HowStuffWorks’ ownership of our common stock would not be paid at the October 2007 closing of the transaction and instead are payable to HowStuffWorks’ former stockholders in three semi-annual installments. Discovery has distributed all such shares of Remark Media to the HowStuffWorks’ former stockholders. Accordingly, the amount of shares of our common stock Discovery owns has decreased. All of our rights to publish HowStuffWorks content will remain effective regardless of the number of shares Discovery owns in the future. As a result of such distributions, relative to the daily market trading volumes for our common stock, such stockholders may sell a significant number of shares. These factors could also affect our common stock, and depress the market price for our common stock or limit the market for resale of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, particularly in the recent stock market turmoil, and is also based on other factors outside of our control. The anticipated benefits of the mergers may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The mergers with Banks.com and Pop Factory involved the integration of companies that have previously operated independently with principal offices in different distinct locations. Significant management attention and resources has been and will be required to integrate the companies. Delays in this process could adversely affect the combined company's business, financial results, financial condition, and stock price following the merger. Even if the combined company were able to integrate the business operations successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration and that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY We have a history of operating losses and if we do not reach profitability, we may not be able to fund and operate our businesses. Although Remark Media was founded in 2006, our business strategy is still evolving, and we have a limited operating history. We are in varying development stages of our businesses, including online publishing and international and domestic digital markets, with a limited operating history upon which investors and others can evaluate our current business and prospects. We have had operating losses in each year of our operations. If we are not able to reach profitability, we may not be able to fund our operations in the future. Because of our limited operating history in U.S. digital media properties and the ongoing development of our business, we will have limited insight into trends and conditions that may exist or emerge and affect our business, especially with respect to the content and platform services and online publishing market. Our content and platform service agreements with Sharecare and Discovery Communications, which represented approximately 97% of our revenues for 2011, expired in December 2011. The Content and Platform Services business will have no revenues unless we enter into new services agreements with new customers. During 2012 and 2011, we have generated only minimal revenue in our Brands business. We cannot be certain that our business strategy will be successful or that it will successfully address these risks. Any failure by us to successfully implement our new business plans would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Acquisitions, business combinations and other transactions present integration risk and may have negative consequences for our business and our stockholders. We plan to continuously monitor certain strategic acquisition opportunities. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations may result in unforeseen difficulties and liabilities and may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. Difficulties that we encounter in integrating the operations of acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, we 14 may not realize any of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and integration costs may exceed anticipated amounts. We may enter into joint ventures, strategic alliances or similar arrangements with third parties. These transactions result in changes in the nature and scope of our operations and changes in our financial condition. Financing for these transactions may come from cash on hand, proceeds from the issuance of additional common stock or proceeds from debt financing. The issuance of additional equity or debt securities could: · cause substantial dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders at the time of the issuance; · cause substantial dilution of our earnings per share; · subject us to the risks associated with increased leverage and additional interest costs; · subject us to restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities; and · adversely affect the prevailing market price for our outstanding securities. Our investment in Sharecare’s equity securities involves a substantial degree of risk. Sharecare is a recently formed company with limited history of operations. Its prospects must be considered in light of the many risks, uncertainties, expenses, delays and difficulties encountered by companies in their early stages of development. Moreover, Sharecare operates in the highly competitive Internet industry and might not achieve profitability or consumer acceptance in the near term, if ever. Our investment in Sharecare’s equity securities is illiquid and might fail to appreciate and might decline in value or become worthless. It is unlikely our Sharecare equity securities will pay current dividends, and our ability to realize a return on our investment, as well as to recover our investment, will be dependent on the success of Sharecare. Even if Sharecare is successful, our ability to realize the value of our investment might be limited. Because it is a private company, there is no public market for Sharecare’s securities, and the Sharecare securities are subject to restrictions on resale that might prevent us from selling these securities during periods in which it would be advantageous to do so. As a result, we might have to wait for a liquidity event, such as a public offering or the sale of Sharecare, to realize the value of our investment, if any. A liquidity event is not expected in the near term. We accounted for our investment in Sharecare under the equity method of accounting through November 2012, under which we record our proportionate share of Sharecare’s net income or loss. As of December 2012, we moved to the cost method. It is likely that Sharecare will need to raise additional capital, or make additional acquisitions, and our equity position in Sharecare may be diluted if Sharecare issues additional equity, options, or warrants. If Sharecare makes a capital call of its existing equity holders, our position may be diluted if we choose not to contribute additional capital. Our interest ownership in the common stock of Sharecare was 10.8% at December 31, 2012. We may not have sufficient liquidity to support the ongoing development and growth of our businesses. The Company is in the process of developing and launching new content vertical websites as well as a website services business. We currently operate at a loss and with a substantial negative cash flow from operations. While we believe that our cash resources on hand at the time of this filing including the proceeds from our recent financing transactions, are sufficient to fund the launch and early growth of these through at least December 31, 2013, our cash resources are not necessarily sufficient to fund these businesses for an extended period beyond that unless revenues increase significantly or we find additional sources of capital, neither of which can be assured. Additionally, the development of new content vertical websites may require additional sources of capital for the Company. Our management and directors continue to evaluate our progress and likelihood of success in each of our markets, and our ability to raise additional capital, against the relative value of our resources and other opportunities. Accordingly, we implemented cost saving measures in 2011 and 2012 related to our Atlanta, Brazil and China operations in order to focus our limited resources in building our new content verticals, and we might decide to implement further cost savings measures or suspend our activities in one or more of our markets. We will need to raise additional funds in the future to support expansion, develop new or enhanced applications and services, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. If required, we may attempt to raise such additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements similar to the revolving credit agreement entered into in March 2011 and which expired on March 3, 2012, or the Term Loan Agreement and Promissory Note discussed above. In addition, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that such financing will not be dilutive to our stockholders. For further details regarding our liquidity, refer to our “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of the “ Management’s Discussion and Analysis” included in this Form 10-K. 15 If we do not scale and adapt our business to technological needs of increased traffic and technological changes, it could cause inefficiencies or disruptions on our websites and loss of users, contributors, and advertisers. As our business grows, our technological and network infrastructure must keep in-line with our traffic and advertiser needs. Future demand is difficult to forecast and we may not be adequately able to handle large increases unless we spend substantial amounts to augment our ability to handle increased traffic. Additionally, the implementation of increased network capacity contains some execution risks and may lead to ineffectiveness or inefficiency. This could lead to a diminished experience for our consumers and advertisers and damage our reputation and relationship with them, leading to lower marketability and negative effects on our operating results. Moreover, the pace of innovative change in network technology is fast and if we do not keep up, we may lag behind competitors. The costs of upgrading and improving technology could be substantial and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are vulnerable to failures of third party network and technology providers who may fail to provide adequate services in the future. This could cause technical problems or failure of our websites or traffic, which could inhibit our revenues or damage our reputation and relationships with users, advertisers, and content providers. We rely on many third party businesses for technological, network, and expert services. Our ability to operate successfully depends on the successful operation of these third party businesses, which carry their own risks. If one of our third party vendors fails to deliver expected services, our websites and business could suffer operating problems or temporary failures. If there is a problem or failure with our websites, it could hurt our ability to advertise and damage our reputation with consumers and advertisers. We utilize third party services to host our websites. If one of these third parties experiences a failure, it could cause the failure of our websites, which may cause material adverse effects to our business. Additionally, a termination of our hosting agreements or failure to renew on favorable terms could affect our business. Shifting hosting services could require management focus and time and potentially disrupt operations of our websites. In addition, as operators of content websites reliant on user traffic to sell advertising, our users must have adequate and functioning Internet access. Technical problems with Internet access providers such as cable, DSL satellite or mobile companies may inhibit user access to our websites and slow traffic. Such events as power outages caused by blackouts, brown outs, storm outages or other power issues could also cause loss of user access to our websites. Our network operations may be vulnerable to hacking, viruses and other disruptions, which may make our products and services less attractive and reliable. User traffic to our owned and operated websites could decline if any well-publicized compromise of our security occurs. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in our service. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect our owned and operated websites against hackers. If our security measures are breached as a result of third party action, employee error or otherwise, we could incur liability and our reputation would be damaged, which could lead to the loss of current and potential customers. If we experience any breaches of our network security or sabotage, we might be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy, protect against or alleviate these and related problems, and we may not be able to remedy these problems in a timely manner, or at all. Because techniques used by outsiders to obtain unauthorized network access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. We cannot ensure that any measures we may take will be effective. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, as well as materially damage our reputation and decrease our user traffic. We are subject to many government laws and regulations which could subject us to claims if we do not comply with such laws and regulations which could affect our reputation, business and financial position. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations regarding our business both within the United States, and in foreign territories in which we operate. Laws and regulations of particular importance to our business relate to: privacy, information security, intellectual property and other copyright, freedom of expression, domain registration, content distribution, and advertising. In particular, as a content company we may not be particularly protected from the Digital Millennium Copyright Act for infringing content posted on our website if we are not fully in compliance with the statutory requirements of this act. Our failure to comply with these regulations may result in claims against us or other liabilities. Such liabilities could be substantial and adversely affect our operations, reputation and financial condition. We may incur substantial legal expenses and management resources may be required to defend against such claims, even if meritless. 16 We are exposed to unique risks from operations in Emerging Market countries, including Brazil and China which could affect our operations in these countries. Our international operations expose us to a wide variety of risks including increased credit risks, customs duties, import quotas and other trade restrictions, potentially greater inflationary pressures, and the risk of failure or material interruption of wireless systems and services. Changes may occur in foreign trade and investment laws in the territories and countries where we will operate. United States laws and regulations relating to investment and trade in foreign countries could also change to our detriment. Any of these factors could adversely affect our revenues and profits. We are subject to risk of political instability and trade sanctions within China. China has traditionally been a closed market with strict political controls. As China shifts to a market economy, growing economic and social freedoms may conflict with the more restrictive political and governmental policies. In addition, democratic countries throughout the world have, from time to time, attempted to use economic and other sanctions to achieve political or social change in other countries. Each of these factors could result in economic sanctions, economic instability, the disruption of trading and war within China and the Asia Pacific Rim, any of which could result in our inability to conduct business operations in China. In the past, the Brazilian government has intervened in the Brazilian economy and occasionally made drastic changes in economic policy. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and affect other policies have included high interest rates, wage and price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on exports, among other actions. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, prospects and the market price of our securities may be adversely affected by changes in Brazilian government policies, as well as general economic factors, including: · currency fluctuations; · exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad, such as those that were briefly imposed on such remittances (including dividends) in 1989 and in the beginning of 1990; · inflation; · price instability; · energy policy; · interest rate increases; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; · changes in tax policy; and · other political, domestic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Also, the President of Brazil has considerable power to determine governmental policies and actions that relate to the Brazilian economy and, consequently, affect the operations and financial performance of businesses operating in Brazil. We have no control over, and cannot predict what policies or actions the Brazilian government may take in the future. Further risks relating to international operations include, but are not restricted to, unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs, exchange rates and other barriers, political and economic instability, possible effects of war and acts of terrorism, difficulties in accounts receivable collections, difficulties in managing distributors or representatives, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, difficulties in protecting our intellectual property overseas, seasonality of sales and potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of these factors could adversely affect our revenues and profits. Additional risks include, but are not limited to the following: · We may not succeed in marketing and monetizing our international assets to potential customers or developing strategic partnerships for the distribution of our websites and services. Our plans to market and monetize our assets in the Chinese and Brazilian online markets through the Internet are still relatively unproven. · The state of the Internet infrastructure in Emerging Markets may limit our growth in these countries. The Internet infrastructures in Emerging Market countries, including China and Brazil, are not well developed and are subject to regulatory control and, in the case of China, ownership by the Chinese government. The cost of Internet access is high relative to the average income in Emerging Market countries. Failure to further develop these infrastructures could limit our ability to grow. Alternatively, as these infrastructures improve and Internet use increases, we may not be able to scale our systems proportionately. Our reliance on these infrastructures makes us vulnerable to disruptions or failures in service, without sufficient access to alternative networks and services. Such disruptions or failures could reduce our user satisfaction. 17 · We may be sensitive to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the China and Brazil economies. This is particularly true in light of current financial and economic uncertainties. In response to adverse economic developments, companies have reduced spending on marketing and advertising. As a result, a slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in China or Brazil may materially reduce the demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our business. · Our Emerging Market operations subject us to other regulatory risks including unpredictable governmental regulation in China and Brazil. · Although Remark Media is incorporated in the State of Delaware, we have operations located in Brazil and the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce outside the United States any actions brought against us or our officers and directors in the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Brazil and the PRC, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States. Additional specific risks related to conducting business in China could affect our business operations in that country. The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in a number of respects, including: · structure; · level of government involvement; · level of development; · level of capital reinvestment; · growth rate; · control of foreign exchange; and · methods of allocating resources. Since 1949, China has been primarily a planned economy subject to a system of macroeconomic management. Although the Chinese government still owns a significant portion of the productive assets in China, economic reform policies since the late 1970s have emphasized decentralization, autonomous enterprises and the utilization of market mechanisms. We cannot predict what affects the economic reform and macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government may have on our business or results of operations. Specific risks, which could affect our business in China include: · Regulation and censorship of information collection and distribution in China may adversely affect our business. China has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. Furthermore, the Propaganda Department of the Chinese Communist Party has been given the responsibility to censor news published in China to ensure, supervise and control a particular political ideology. Periodically, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the distribution over the Internet of information, which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to cause any local Internet service provider to block any website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. If the PRC government were to take action to limit or eliminate the distribution of information through our portals or to limit or regulate current or future applications available to users of our portals, our business would be adversely affected. · PRC laws and regulations related to the PRC Internet sector are unclear and will likely change in the near future. If we are found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws or regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. · The PRC regulates its Internet sector by making pronouncements or enacting regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the PRC Internet sector and the existence and enforcement of content restrictions on the Internet. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of current PRC Internet laws and regulations. If we are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant PRC authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, without limitation, the following: · levying fines; · confiscating our income; · revoking our business licenses; · pursuing criminal sanctions against our business and personnel; 18 · shutting down our servers and/or blocking our websites; · requiring us to restructure our ownership structure or operations; and · requiring us to discontinue any portion or all of our Internet business based in China. · A 2006 regulation establishes more complex procedures in the PRC for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions. · The online advertising markets in China and Brazil are still developing and present risk to our revenues to be generated from our online publishing business. We do not expect our online publishing businesses in China and Brazil to derive significant revenue from online advertisements in the near term. The online advertising markets in China and Brazil are still developing, and future growth and expansion of these markets is uncertain. In February and September 2011, we implemented certain cost-saving measures in our Brazil and China operations, respectively, to bring costs in line with expected revenues while searching for strategic media partners in both countries and consideration of other strategic alternatives. These measures have also had an impact on our trend of revenues in both countries which would impact our financial condition, results or operations and cash flows generated in these countries. · Potential additional Chinese regulation could affect our business in China. The Ministry of Information Industry, the Chinese governmental agency that regulates the Internet in China, promulgated a directive effective January 31, 2008, providing that online videos can only be broadcast or streamed by state-owned or controlled companies. Subsequently, the Ministry of Information Industry acted to provide exceptions for certain non-state-owned or controlled companies. While it is possible that our Chinese website would not be permitted to display online videos, which could have a material effect on the content provided on such website, it is not yet clear what, if any, effect this regulation has upon our business in China. · New political and economic policies of the PRC government could affect our business. · The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties, which could limit the legal protections available to us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. We are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in mainland China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors. Any of these actions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to risks arising from some of our revenue being denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may cause our foreign revenues to be unpredictable and fluctuate quarterly and annually. Some of our revenues and operating expenses may be denominated in Chinese Renminbi. Currently, we may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions” without the approval of the SAFE. We may also retain foreign exchange in our current account (subject to a ceiling approved by the SAFE) to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Additionally, some of our revenues and operating expenses may be denominated in Brazilian Reais. Brazilian law allows the Brazilian government to impose restrictions on the conversion of the Real into foreign currencies and on the remittance to foreign investors of proceeds from their investments in Brazil. The government may impose such restrictions whenever there is a serious imbalance in Brazil’s balance of payments or there are reasons to foresee a serious imbalance. The Brazilian government last imposed remittance restrictions for approximately six months in 1989 and early 1990. The likelihood that the Brazilian government would impose such restrictions again depends on the extent of Brazil’s foreign currency reserves, the availability of foreign currency in the foreign exchange markets on the date a payment is due, the size of Brazil’s debt service burden relative to the economy as a whole, Brazil’s policy toward the International Monetary Fund and other factors. Since a portion of our revenues may be denominated in Renminbi, existing and future restrictions on the exchange of Renminbi to other currencies may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Similarly, in the event that a significant amount of our revenues are denominated in Reais, any future restrictions on the exchange of Reais for other currencies or the remittance to foreign investors of proceeds from their investments in Brazil may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Reais to fund our business activities outside Brazil, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. 19 Currency fluctuations, devaluations and exchange restrictions may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. In some countries, local currencies are not readily converted into Euros or U.S. dollars (or other “hard currencies”) or are only converted at government-controlled rates, and, in some countries, the transfer of hard currencies offshore has been restricted from time to time. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, if at all. Our revenues as expressed in our U.S. dollar financial statements will decline in value if Renminbi or Reais depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar to the extent we have revenues in China or Brazil. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into U.S. dollars or by Brazilian exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Reais into U.S. dollars. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it is possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws of the PRC and Brazil are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our brands and services will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may in the future be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. In particular, if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against us may result in substantial monetary liability or may materially disrupt the conduct of our business. If we are not able to attract and retain key management, we may not successfully integrate the contributed assets into our historical business or achieve our other business objectives. We will depend upon our senior management for our business success. The loss of the service of any of the key members of our senior management may significantly delay or prevent the integration of the contributed assets and other business objectives. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, consultants and advisors will be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these individuals, and our failure to do so would adversely affect our business. We may have additional tax liabilities if tax positions we have taken in prior years are challenged. Although the company has not been a substantial taxpayer to date, our subsidiaries and we are subject to taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We believe that our tax returns appropriately reflected our tax liability when those tax returns were filed. However, applicable tax authorities may challenge our tax positions. Any successful challenge to one or more of our prior tax positions could result in a material tax liability to us or to one or more of our subsidiaries, including INTAC, for one or more prior years. We could incur asset impairment charges for intangible assets or other long-lived assets. We have intangible assets and other long-lived assets, therefore future lower than anticipated financial performance or changes in estimates and assumptions, which in many cases require significant judgment, could result in impairment charges. We test intangible assets that are determined to have an indefinite life for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and assess whether factors or indicators, such as unfavorable variances from established business plans, significant changes in forecasted results or volatility inherent to external markets and industries, become apparent that would require an interim test. Adverse changes in the operating environment and related key assumptions used to determine the fair value of our indefinite lived intangible assets or declines in the value of our common stock may result in future impairment 20 charges for a portion or all of these assets. In December 2012, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.4 million resulting from abandoning certain projects in our Content and Platform Services business. In September 2011, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.4 million resulting from our analysis of a triggering event tied to the strategic reductions in investment in our China operations to better align expenses to the revenues being generated at that time. If any of the assumptions used in the analysis change in the future, an impairment charge for a portion or all of the assets may be required. In addition, in December 2010, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.5 million, primarily because of changes in our assumptions as to the time and cost required to obtain licenses to operate in China similar to the ones we currently hold. An additional impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, but would not be expected to have an impact on our cash flows or liquidity. Our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent all possible errors that could occur. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be satisfied. Internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are designed to give a reasonable assurance that they are effective to achieve their objectives. We cannot provide absolute assurance that all of our possible future control issues will be detected. These inherent limitations include the possibility that judgments in our decision-making can be faulty, and that isolated breakdowns can occur because of simple human error or mistake. The design of our system of controls is based in part upon assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed absolutely in achieving our stated goals under all potential future or unforeseeable conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error could occur and not be detected. We are not required to have our independent auditors attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over our financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires public companies to have and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and preparation of financial statements, and have management review the effectiveness of those controls on an annual basis. We are required to comply with these requirements, but as a “smaller reporting company,” as defined by SEC rules, we are not required to have our independent auditors attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over our financial reporting. As a result, we may not have comparable procedures in place as compared to other larger public companies. Our operations are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events. While we believe we have adequate backup systems in place, we could still experience system failures and electrical outages from time to time in the future, which could disrupt our operations. All of our servers and routers are currently hosted in a single location, which poses site redundancy risk. Although our site is a Tier 4 data center, which is composed of multiple active power and cooling distribution paths, has redundant components, is fault tolerant, and provides 99.995% availability, we do not have a documented disaster recovery plan in the event of damage from fire, flood, typhoon, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, break in or similar events. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may experience a temporary system shutdown. If there is significant disruption or damage to the data center hosting our web servers, our ability to provide access to our websites would be interrupted. We do not carry any business interruption insurance. Although we carry property insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, particularly with respect to loss of business and reputation that may occur. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK There is a risk that an active and robust market for our common stock may not be available. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, a robust exchange with substantial liquidity. It is not guaranteed that an active and robust market will exist for our common stock. However, if the NASDAQ Capital Market changes its listing requirements or ceases to operate in its current manner, there is no guarantee that we will be able to list on another exchange. This could severely limit the market liquidity of our stock and could adversely affect its price. Moreover, the market for our common stock will be subject to general market economic conditions. Internet stocks in particular have exhibited extreme price fluctuations and volume volatility. In the event of adverse economic shifts in the Internet and Media stock sectors or the stock market in general, there is a risk that trading liquidity in our stock may not be available. 21 The market price of our stock is likely to be volatile and various factors could negatively affect the market price or market for our common stock. The market for and price of our common stock could be affected by the following factors: · general market and economic conditions; · our common stock has been thinly traded; and · minimal third party research is available regarding our company. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, particularly in the recent stock market turmoil, and is also based on other factors outside of our control. The concentration of our stock ownership may limit individual stockholder ability to influence corporate matters. HowStuffWorks, a subsidiary of Discovery, beneficially owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock and is a party of a stockholders’ agreement. The stockholders’ agreement entitles HowStuffWorks to designate nominees to our Board of Directors. As a result, Discovery may have the ability to influence our management and affairs and determine the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to the charter, approval of equity-based employee compensation plans and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of Discovery and its affiliates may materially conflict with the interests of other stockholders. For as long as they exert a significant influence over our business affairs, they will have the ability to cause us to take actions that may be adverse to the interests of other stockholders or inconsistent with other stockholders’ investment objectives. Digipac, an entity associated with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, holds approximately $6 million of convertible notes made by the Company, which if converted would result in a Digipac owning a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Digipac may have the ability to influence our management and affairs and determine the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to the charter, approval of equity-based employee compensation plans and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of Digipac and its affiliates may materially conflict with the interests of other stockholders. In the future, Digipac may have the ability to cause us to take actions that may be adverse to the interests of other stockholders or inconsistent with other stockholders’ investment objectives. Two of our stockholders also have substantial Sharecare investments, and potential conflicts of interests could harm us. Jeff Arnold, a member of the Board of Directors until June 2010 and former Chief of Global Digital Strategy for Discovery, the parent company of HowStuffWorks, together with Discovery beneficially own approximately 15% of our common stock at December 31, 2012. Both Mr. Arnold and Discovery own significant interests in Sharecare. Mr. Arnold and a representative of Discovery serve on the Board of Directors of Sharecare, and Mr. Arnold is also Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Sharecare. As a result, Mr. Arnold and Discovery have the ability to significantly influence and manage the affairs of both Remark Media and Sharecare and determine the outcome of matters submitted for approval to stockholders of each company. If Remark Media and Sharecare’s interests diverge, there is a risk that Mr. Arnold or Discovery will favor actions by Sharecare that are adverse to Remark Media. The concentration of our stock ownership, as well as our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws, stockholders agreement and Delaware law contain provisions that may make our acquisition more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, which could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving our change of control. As of December 31, 2012, Discovery owned approximately 11% of our outstanding shares of common stock through its HowStuffWorks subsidiary. As a result, it will be difficult for our other stockholders to approve a takeover of us without the cooperation of Discovery. Furthermore, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions, including but not limited to the following provisions: · only our Board of Directors may call special meetings of our stockholders; · our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; · we have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; 22 · SEC Rule 14a-8 requires that we receive notice of stockholder proposals at least 120 days prior to the date of our proxy statement for the previous year’s annual meeting or we do not have to include them in our proxy materials; and · for stockholder proposals not requested to be included in our proxy materials under Rule 14a-8, we require advance notice of not less than 60 nor more than 90 days prior to a meeting for the proposal to be introduced and considered. In addition, the stockholders agreement gives HowStuffWorks the right to designate nominees to our Board of Directors. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change of control of us. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for individual investors and other stockholders to cause us to take other corporate actions individual investors and other stockholders desire. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may also delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interest. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a publicly-held Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us that our stockholders consider to be in their best interest. Resales of our common stock and additional obligations to issue our common stock may cause the market price of our stock to fall. As of December 31, 2012, there were approximately 7,113,744 shares of our common stock outstanding, and options and warrants to purchase another approximately 982,468 shares outstanding. At December 31, 2012, we also had reserved an additional 373,049 shares for future issuance under our equity compensation plans. Resale of outstanding shares or issuance of new shares could depress the market price for our common stock. If we fail to meet all listing requirements, we might not be able to remain listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market. In September 2009, we received a notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that we no longer complied with the continued listing requirement that our shares of common stock maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00. In response, we conducted a reverse stock split and regained compliance with continued listing standards. In March 2010, the Company received a notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that we were not in compliance with the continued listing requirement that the publicly held shares of the Company, which is calculated by subtracting all shares held by officers, directors or beneficial owners of 10% or more from the total shares outstanding, maintain a minimum market value of $5,000,000. In July 2010, the Company received a notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that it had regained compliance with this rule. In April 2011, Remark Media received notification from the NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that the Company no longer complied with the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market because the Company’s stockholders’ equity has fallen below $10 million as reported on our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. The Company’s stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2010 was $8,775,882. The Company was allowed until May 19, 2011, to submit a plan to NASDAQ to regain compliance. Rather than submit a plan, we elected to move our listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2011 was $2,693,183. Our stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2012 was $2,777,105. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to satisfy the requirements to maintain a continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. On November 15, 2012, the Company received a notice from The NASDAQ Stock Marketing indicating that we no longer complied with the majority independent board requirement nor the Audit Committee member requirement, due to the resignations of two board members. In response, the Company asked for an extension in which to comply with the requirements. On January 7, 2013, Remark Media received notification from the NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that the Company was granted an extension until May 14, 2013, to regain compliance with the continued listing rules by appointing two independent directors to its Board of Directors, who will also be appointed to the Audit Committee. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 