ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS New Alberto-Culver faces intense competition in its markets, and the failure to compete effectively could have an adverse impact on its business, financial condition and results of operations. New Alberto-Culver faces intense competition from consumer product companies both in the U.S. and in its international markets. Most of New Alberto-Culver’s products compete with other widely advertised brands within each product category. New Alberto-Culver also encounters competition from similar and alternative products, many of which are produced and marketed by major multinational or national concerns. New Alberto-Culver’s products generally compete on the basis of: • specific benefits to consumers; • marketing (including advertising, promotion, merchandising, packaging and trade customer relations); • product quality; and • price. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising and sales promotion. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continuing advertising and promotional support to maintain its relative market position. Many of New Alberto-Culver’s competitors are larger and have financial resources greater than those of New Alberto-Culver and may therefore be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than New Alberto-Culver. In addition, New Alberto-Culver’s competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by New Alberto-Culver. Competitive pricing may require New Alberto-Culver to reduce prices and could lead to a reduction in its sales or its profit margins. If New Alberto-Culver is unable to compete effectively, such failure could have an adverse impact on its business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 New Alberto-Culver depends on a limited number of customers for a large portion of its net sales, and the loss of any of these customers or a material reduction in sales to any of these customers could have an adverse effect on New Alberto-Culver’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A limited number of customers account for a large percentage of New Alberto-Culver’s net sales. New Alberto-Culver’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliated companies, accounted for approximately 19%, 18% and 17% of its net sales during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. During fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, New Alberto-Culver’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 29%, 28% and 27% of its net sales, respectively. New Alberto-Culver expects that a significant portion of its net sales will continue to be derived from a small number of customers and that these percentages may increase if the growth of mass merchandisers continues. As a result, changes in the strategies of New Alberto-Culver’s largest customers, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, may harm New Alberto-Culver’s net sales. In addition, New Alberto-Culver’s business is based primarily upon individual sales orders and New Alberto-Culver rarely enters into long-term contracts with its customers. Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from New Alberto-Culver at any time and for any reason. If New Alberto-Culver loses a significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer materially decrease, it could have an adverse effect on New Alberto-Culver’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure of New Alberto-Culver to effectively anticipate and respond to market trends and changes in consumer preferences could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. New Alberto-Culver’s continued success depends in large part on its ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely and effective manner to changes in consumer spending patterns and preferences for beauty and other consumer products. New Alberto-Culver must continually work to develop, produce and market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of its brands, achieve a favorable mix of products, and refine its approach as to how and where it markets and sells its products. While New Alberto-Culver devotes considerable effort and resources to shape, analyze and respond to consumer preferences, consumer spending patterns and preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and can change rapidly. If New Alberto-Culver is unable to anticipate and respond to trends in the market for beauty and other consumer products and changing consumer demands, its business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Furthermore, material shifts or decreases in market demand for New Alberto-Culver’s products, including changes in consumer spending patterns and preferences, could result in New Alberto-Culver carrying inventories that are too high or cannot be sold at anticipated prices or increased product returns by its customers. Failure to maintain proper inventory levels or increased product returns by its customers could have an adverse effect on New Alberto-Culver’s business, financial condition and results of operations. New Alberto-Culver manufactures and packages almost all of its products. New Alberto-Culver purchases from various suppliers the raw materials for these products. The loss of one or more suppliers or a significant disruption or interruption in the supply chain could have an adverse effect on the manufacturing and packaging of New Alberto-Culver’s products. Price increases in raw materials could harm New Alberto-Culver’s profit margins. As noted above, New Alberto-Culver manufactures and packages almost all of its products. The principal raw materials used by New Alberto-Culver include essential oils, chemicals, containers and packaging components. Increases in the costs of these or other raw materials used in New Alberto-Culver’s business may adversely affect New Alberto-Culver’s profit margins if it is unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution. 7 Large sophisticated customers may take actions that adversely affect New Alberto-Culver’s margins and results of operations. In recent years, New Alberto-Culver has experienced a consumer trend away from traditional grocery and drug store channels and toward mass merchandisers, which include super centers and club stores. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of these mass merchandisers. As these mass merchandisers grow larger and become more sophisticated, they may demand lower pricing, special packaging, or impose other requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics, or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If New Alberto-Culver does not effectively respond to the demands of these mass merchandisers, they could decrease their purchases from New Alberto-Culver, causing New Alberto-Culver’s sales and profitability to decline. New Alberto-Culver is a holding company with no operations of its own and depends on its subsidiaries for cash. New Alberto-Culver is a holding company and, following the Separation, does not have any assets or operations other than ownership of its subsidiaries. New Alberto-Culver’s operations are conducted through its subsidiaries and its ability to generate cash to meet its debt service obligations or to pay dividends is highly dependent on the earnings of, and receipt of funds from, its subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans. However, none of New Alberto-Culver’s subsidiaries are obligated to make funds available to New Alberto-Culver for payment of dividends or to service its debt. If New Alberto-Culver is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, specifically its trademarks, its ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The market for New Alberto-Culver’s products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with its trademarks and brand names, including “Alberto VO5,” “St. Ives,” “TRESemmé” and “Nexxus.” New Alberto-Culver owns the trademarks and brand name rights used in connection with marketing and distribution of its major products both in the United States and in other countries. Although most of New Alberto-Culver’s material intellectual property is registered in the United States and in certain foreign countries in which it operates, it may not be successful in asserting trademark or brand name protection. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect New Alberto-Culver’s intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect New Alberto-Culver’s trademarks and brand names is expected to continue to be substantial. New Alberto-Culver’s business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. New Alberto-Culver’s international sales are generally denominated in foreign currencies, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. Approximately 45.7% of its net sales were from international operations in fiscal year 2006. Its primary exposures are to fluctuations in exchange rates for the United States dollar versus the Swedish krona, the British pound sterling, the Canadian dollar, the Euro, the Australian dollar, the Mexican peso, the Argentine peso, the New Zealand dollar, the Polish zloty and the Danish krone. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which New Alberto-Culver and its foreign competitors sell products in the same market. Although New Alberto-Culver occasionally hedges some exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, it cannot ensure that foreign currency fluctuations will not have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. 8 New Alberto-Culver’s ability to conduct business in or import products from international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. Approximately 45.7% of New Alberto-Culver’s net sales were from international operations in fiscal year 2006. New Alberto-Culver’s ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to grow or maintain the current level of operations in its existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets. New Alberto-Culver is also subject to political and economic risks in connection with its international operations, including: • political instability; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and • economic fluctuations in specific markets. New Alberto-Culver cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the United States, the European Union or other countries upon the import or export of its products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in regulatory or geopolitical policies and other factors may have an adverse effect on New Alberto-Culver’s business in the future or may require it to modify its current business practices. Any future acquisitions may expose New Alberto-Culver to additional risks. New Alberto-Culver frequently reviews acquisition prospects that would complement its current product offerings, increase the size and geographic scope of its operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities. The financing for any of these acquisitions could dilute the interests of New Alberto-Culver stockholders, result in an increase in its indebtedness or both. Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including: • difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products, including the loss of key employees from acquired businesses; • diversion of management’s attention from New Alberto-Culver’s core business; • compliance with foreign regulatory requirements; • enforcement of new intellectual property rights; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • operating inefficiencies and negative impact on profitability; • entering markets or product categories in which New Alberto-Culver has limited or no prior experience; and • general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by United States companies in particular. New Alberto-Culver’s failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that New Alberto-Culver will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on favorable terms. 9 Product liability claims could adversely affect New Alberto-Culver’s business, financial condition and results of operations. New Alberto-Culver may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by its products. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, New Alberto-Culver’s products contain contaminants, provide inadequate instructions regarding their use, or provide inadequate warnings concerning interactions with other substances. Product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm New Alberto-Culver’s sales and operating results. In addition, if any of New Alberto-Culver’s products is found to be defective, New Alberto-Culver could be required to recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although New Alberto-Culver maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or potential product liability claims may be excluded under the terms of the policy. Environmental matters create potential liability risks. New Alberto-Culver must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including those relating to air emissions, water discharges, the handling and disposal of liquid and solid hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. New Alberto-Culver handles and transports hazardous substances at its plant sites. A release of such chemicals due to accident or an intentional act could result in substantial liability to governmental authorities and/or to third parties. New Alberto-Culver has incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations and in providing physical security for its worldwide operations. New Alberto-Culver may not realize the anticipated benefits from the Separation. The success of the Separation will depend, in part, on the ability of New Alberto-Culver to realize the anticipated benefits of the Separation. These anticipated benefits include enhanced opportunities to increase brand and product recognition as a result of increased ability of New Alberto-Culver to engage in more aggressive marketing and advertising campaigns as a result of eliminating the difficulties arising from operating two businesses which compete with the customers and suppliers of the other business. In addition, the anticipated benefits include the potential for increased operating earnings of the consumer products business expected to result from allowing each company to focus its attention and resources on its business and customers. New Alberto-Culver can not ensure that these benefits will occur. During the past five fiscal years, New Alberto-Culver experienced significant net sales and earnings growth. There can be no assurance that it will be able to achieve comparable growth in the future. The Separation may present significant challenges. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of separating New Alberto-Culver from New Sally. These difficulties include: • the potential difficulty in retaining key officers and personnel of New Alberto-Culver; and • preserving customer, distribution, supplier and other important relationships of New Alberto-Culver. New Alberto-Culver may not cost-effectively separate from New Sally. The failure to do so could have an adverse effect on New Alberto-Culver’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The process of separating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of New Alberto-Culver. Members of New Alberto-Culver’s senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this separation process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage their business, service existing customers, attract new customers and develop new products or strategies. If New Alberto-Culver’s senior management is not able to manage effectively the separation process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the separation process, New Alberto-Culver’s business could suffer. 10 If the distribution of New Alberto-Culver shares as part of the Separation does not constitute a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, then New Alberto-Culver or New Sally (pursuant to a tax allocation agreement entered into in connection with the Separation) and Alberto-Culver stockholders may be responsible for payment of significant U.S. federal income taxes. The completion of the New Alberto-Culver share distribution was conditioned upon the receipt of (i) a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service and (ii) an opinion of Sidley Austin LLP, counsel to Alberto-Culver, in each case, to the effect that the contribution of the company to New Alberto-Culver and the New Alberto-Culver share distribution will qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code and a distribution eligible for nonrecognition under Sections 355(a) and 361(c) of the Internal Revenue Code. The private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel was based, in part, on assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by, among others, Alberto-Culver, New Sally and representatives of the Lavin family stockholders (Mrs. Carol L. Bernick, Chairman of the New Alberto-Culver Board of Directors, Mr. Leonard H. Lavin, a director of New Alberto-Culver, Mrs. Bernice E. Lavin, wife of Mr. Lavin and mother of Mrs. Bernick, and a partnership and trusts established for the benefit of specified members of the Lavin family), as requested by the Internal Revenue Service or counsel, which, if incorrect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by the Internal Revenue Service and counsel. The private letter ruling also did not address certain material legal issues that could affect its conclusions, and reserved the right of the Internal Revenue Service to raise such issues upon a subsequent audit. Opinions of counsel neither bind the Internal Revenue Service or any court, nor preclude the Internal Revenue Service from adopting a contrary position. If the New Alberto-Culver share distribution were not to qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, New Sally, as the successor to Alberto-Culver under the Internal Revenue Code, would recognize a taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the New Alberto-Culver common stock distributed to the New Sally stockholders over New Sally’s tax basis in the New Alberto-Culver common stock. In addition, each New Sally stockholder who received New Alberto-Culver common stock in the New Alberto-Culver share distribution would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution to the extent of earnings and profits of New Sally in an amount equal to the fair market value of the New Alberto-Culver common stock received. In the event that New Sally recognizes a taxable gain in connection with the New Alberto-Culver share distribution because the New Alberto-Culver share distribution does not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the taxable gain recognized by New Sally would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New Sally. Under the Internal Revenue Code, New Sally would be primarily liable for these taxes and New Alberto-Culver would be secondarily liable. Under the terms of a tax allocation agreement between New Sally, Sally Holdings, New Alberto-Culver and Alberto-Culver, New Alberto-Culver will generally be required to indemnify New Sally against any such tax liabilities unless such failure results solely from an act of New Sally or its affiliates (including Investor), subject to specified exceptions, after the New Alberto-Culver share distribution. The distribution of New Alberto-Culver shares may be taxable to New Sally and New Alberto-Culver if there is an acquisition of 50% or more of New Alberto-Culver’s or New Sally’s outstanding common stock. Even if the New Alberto-Culver share distribution otherwise qualifies as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the distribution of New Alberto-Culver common stock to New Sally stockholders in connection with the New Alberto-Culver share distribution would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New Sally, as the successor to Alberto-Culver under the Internal Revenue Code (but not Alberto-Culver stockholders), if there is an acquisition of stock of New Alberto-Culver or New Sally as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the New Alberto-Culver share distribution and that results in an acquisition of 50% or more of New Alberto-Culver or New Sally outstanding common stock. For purposes of determining whether the distribution of New Alberto-Culver common stock to New Sally stockholders in connection with the New Alberto-Culver share distribution is disqualified as tax-free to New 11 Sally under the rules described in the preceding paragraph, any acquisitions of the stock of New Alberto-Culver or New Sally within two years before or after the New Alberto-Culver share distribution are presumed to be part of a plan, although the parties may be able to rebut that presumption. For purposes of this test, the investment by Investor will be treated as part of such a plan or series of transactions. Under the terms of the investment agreement, Investor acquired approximately 47.55% of New Sally common stock on a fully diluted basis and 48.0% on a basic shares outstanding method (which is the percentage likely to be used for purposes of this test). Thus, a relatively minor additional change in the ownership of the New Sally common stock could trigger a significant tax liability for New Sally under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (for which New Alberto-Culver may be required to indemnify New Sally under a tax allocation agreement entered into in connection with the Separation). The process for determining whether a prohibited change in control has occurred under the rules is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. If New Alberto-Culver or New Sally does not carefully monitor its compliance with these rules, it might inadvertently cause or permit a prohibited change in the ownership of New Sally or of New Alberto-Culver to occur, thereby triggering New Alberto-Culver’s or New Sally’s respective obligations to indemnify the other pursuant to a tax allocation agreement, which would have a material adverse effect on New Alberto-Culver. New Sally will be primarily liable for these taxes, and there can be no assurance that New Alberto-Culver would be able to fulfill its obligations under the tax allocation agreement if New Alberto-Culver was determined to be responsible for these taxes thereunder. In addition, these mutual indemnity obligations could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire either party. In the event that New Sally recognizes a taxable gain in connection with the New Alberto-Culver share distribution because of an acquisition of 50% or more of New Alberto-Culver or New Sally outstanding common stock as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the New Alberto-Culver share distribution, the taxable gain recognized by New Sally would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to New Sally. Under the Internal Revenue Code, New Sally would be primarily liable for these taxes and New Alberto-Culver would be secondarily liable pursuant to a tax allocation agreement. Actions taken by the Lavin family stockholders or by Investor could adversely affect the tax-free nature of the New Alberto-Culver share distribution. Sales and/or acquisitions by the Lavin family stockholders of New Sally common stock or New Alberto-Culver common stock after completion of the Separation (or stock of Alberto-Culver before the Separation) may adversely affect the tax-free nature of the New Alberto-Culver share distribution. First, with certain exceptions, sales by the Lavin family stockholders of New Sally common stock or New Alberto-Culver common stock at any time after completion of the New Alberto-Culver share distribution might be considered evidence that the New Alberto-Culver share distribution was used principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits, particularly if the selling stockholder were found to have an intent to effect such sale at the time of the New Alberto-Culver share distribution. If the Internal Revenue Service successfully asserted that the New Alberto-Culver share distribution was used principally as such a device, the New Alberto-Culver share distribution would not qualify as a tax-free distribution, and thus would be taxable to both New Sally and the New Sally stockholders (as a result of which New Alberto-Culver would be required to indemnify New Sally to the extent required under the tax allocation agreement entered into in connection with the Separation). Second, with certain exceptions, if any of the Lavin family stockholders were to sell an amount of New Sally common stock that it received in the holding company merger (or to acquire additional shares of New Sally common stock) within the two year period following completion of the New Alberto-Culver share distribution, and that amount of stock, if added to the New Sally common stock acquired by Investor (which comprised approximately 48.0% of the New Sally common stock on a basic shares outstanding method), were to equal or exceed 50% of the outstanding common stock of New Sally, as determined under the Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations, a deemed acquisition of control of New Sally in connection with the New Alberto-Culver share distribution would be presumed. If this presumption were not successfully rebutted, New Sally would be 12 subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities and New Alberto-Culver would be required to indemnify New Sally to the extent required under the tax allocation agreement entered into in connection with the Separation, which would have a material adverse effect on New Alberto-Culver. Similar principles would apply to sales or acquisitions of Alberto-Culver stock by the Lavin family before the Separation. Similarly, acquisitions by the Investor or its affiliates of New Sally common stock after completion of the Separation may cause a deemed acquisition of control of New Sally in connection with the New Alberto-Culver share distribution. As a result of the special cash dividend and New Alberto-Culver share distribution, stockholders of Alberto-Culver may have a tax basis in their shares of New Alberto-Culver common stock and New Sally common stock that is significantly higher than the fair market value of each such share. Under the rules for taxing dividends under the Internal Revenue Code, the special cash dividend will be taxable to holders of New Sally common stock first as a dividend to the extent paid out of New Sally’s current and accumulated earnings and profits; thereafter as a tax-free return of capital that reduces a stockholder’s tax basis in its New Sally common stock to the extent of such basis; and thereafter as capital gain from the sale or exchange of the New Sally common stock. Any tax basis remaining after application of these rules will be allocated between the New Sally common stock and New Alberto-Culver common stock received in the New Alberto-Culver share distribution in proportion to the fair market value of each. The special cash dividend will reduce the value of a stockholder’s shares of New Sally common stock. However, because New Sally is expected to have significant earnings and profits at the time of the special cash dividend, a substantial portion of the special cash dividend will be taxable as a dividend and to that extent have no effect on a stockholder’s tax basis in its New Sally common stock. Thus, a stockholder can expect that the value of its New Sally common stock (after giving effect to the distributions) will decline by a greater amount than the amount of reduction of its tax basis, because stock basis will only be reduced by a portion, but not the entire amount, of the dividend. As a result, stockholders of Alberto-Culver who participate in the transaction may have a tax basis in their shares of New Alberto-Culver common stock and New Sally common stock that is significantly higher than the fair market value of each such stock. In particular, persons who have a tax basis in their Alberto-Culver common stock approximately equal to its trading price immediately prior to the Separation can expect this result. Stockholders who have a tax basis in their shares of New Alberto-Culver common stock and New Sally common stock that is higher than the fair market value of such stock may face adverse tax consequences. Generally, a sale of such stock will generate a capital loss. Under the Internal Revenue Code, capital losses are generally only allowable to the extent of capital gains (or, in the case of an individual, the lower of $3,000 ($1,500 in the case of a married individual filing a separate return) or the excess of such losses over such gains). In particular, a stockholder who acquired Alberto-Culver common stock at a price near its trading price immediately prior to the transaction would recognize taxable income (through the taxation of the dividend) without having recognized any economic income and might not be able to offset the taxable income because of the special rules governing losses. In addition, a substantial amount of the special cash dividend is expected to constitute an “extraordinary dividend” under the Internal Revenue Code. Under special tax rules relating to extraordinary dividends, any loss on the sale or exchange of New Sally common stock (and possibly New Alberto-Culver common stock) held by individuals will, to the extent of the amount treated as an extraordinary dividend, be long-term capital loss (even if it would otherwise be considered short-term under the general rules), and corporate stockholders that have not held their Alberto-Culver common stock for two years prior to the announcement of the special cash dividend may be required to reduce their basis in the shares by the untaxed portion of the special cash dividend. 13 The uncertain reporting of the special cash dividend may result in stockholders overpaying income taxes and having to file amended tax returns. As noted above, the portion of the special cash dividend that will be taxable as a dividend for U.S. federal income tax purposes is dependent on the earnings and profits of New Sally through the close of its taxable year ending September 30, 2007, which is when the special cash dividend was paid. Thus, the amount of the special cash dividend constituting a dividend for such purposes will not be known until after the close of such tax year. Nonetheless, stockholders will be required to reflect the tax consequences of the special cash dividend in their tax returns for their own taxable year that includes the date they actually receive the special cash dividend. For example, since the special cash dividend was received by an individual in calendar year 2006, the individual will be required to report the dividend in the individual’s tax return for 2006, generally due on April 16, 2007 (assuming no extension). New Sally will be required to send information returns to stockholders reporting the special cash dividend generally by January 31 of the year following payment. Copies of these information returns are also required to be filed with the Internal Revenue Service. At the time New Sally is required to file these information returns, New Sally’s earnings and profits for the relevant period will not be known and, consequently, the amount of the special cash dividend constituting a dividend for U.S. federal income tax purposes will not be known. Treasury Regulations require, in these circumstances, that the entire amount of the special cash dividend be reported by New Sally as a taxable dividend. Because it is expected that the special cash dividend will in fact exceed the earnings and profits of New Sally, the reporting required by the Treasury Regulations will result in an overstatement of the amount of the special cash dividend constituting a taxable dividend. The Internal Revenue Service has not provided clear guidance on how stockholders should file their tax returns in these circumstances. Stockholders who file their returns based on the information returns supplied by New Sally will overstate the amount of the taxable dividend, which may result in them paying significantly higher taxes than if the final actual amount of the taxable dividend were reflected on their tax returns. Stockholders who file their returns based on an estimate of the amount of the special cash dividend constituting a taxable dividend may face increased audit risk due to the discrepancy between the amount reported to them by New Sally and the amount reflected on their tax returns, and may be liable for interest and penalties if their estimate of tax resulting from the dividend understates the amount of tax ultimately determined to be due. The portion of the special cash dividend that does not constitute a dividend for tax purposes also affects a stockholder’s tax basis in its New Sally common stock (which basis will be allocated among its New Sally common stock and the New Alberto-Culver common stock received in the New Alberto-Culver share distribution). As a result, until the exact amount of the special cash dividend constituting a taxable dividend is determined, a stockholder will not know with certainty its tax basis in its New Sally common stock and New Alberto-Culver common stock. Thus, stockholders who sell their New Sally common stock or New Alberto-Culver common stock prior to this determination will face the same uncertainty with respect to the gain or loss on the sale as they do with respect to the amount constituting a taxable dividend. New Alberto-Culver expects that New Sally will provide stockholders with a determination of the portion of the special cash dividend constituting a taxable dividend as soon as practicable after its earnings and profits for the taxable year ending September 30, 2007, which is when the special cash dividend was paid, are determined. However, it is currently expected that this determination may not be made until calendar year 2008, after New Sally’s federal income tax return for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 is completed. Thus, since the special cash dividend was paid during calendar year 2006, a calendar year stockholder may need to file an amended tax return for 2006 to reflect the corrected amount of the taxable dividend, and possibly for 2007 (if, for example, such stockholder sold New Sally common stock or New Alberto-Culver common stock in 2007), after New Sally has provided stockholders with an amended information return in calendar year 2008 for the 2006 special cash dividend. Stockholders who report the full amount of the special cash dividend as a dividend must reduce their tax basis by the amount ultimately determined not to constitute a dividend whether or not they amend their originally filed return. 14 Under U.S. federal bankruptcy laws or comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, stockholders could be required to return all or a portion of the cash and shares received in the distributions. If New Sally was insolvent or rendered insolvent as a result of the New Alberto-Culver share distribution or the special cash dividend, or if Sally Holdings was insolvent or rendered insolvent either as a result of the incurrence of the indebtedness or the ultimate dividend/transfer of the proceeds of such indebtedness to New Sally, there is a risk that a creditor (or a creditor representative) of New Sally could bring fraudulent transfer claims to recover all or a portion of the special cash dividend and the New Alberto-Culver common stock received in the New Alberto-Culver share distribution and that the persons receiving such distributions would be required to return all or a portion of such distributions if such claims were successful. New Sally received opinions of a valuation firm with respect to its and its subsidiaries’ solvency at the time it declared the distributions and at the time the distributions were made. The loss of the assets, revenue, cash flows and results of operations of New Sally will adversely affect the financial position and operations of New Alberto-Culver. The assets, revenue, cash flows and results of operations of New Sally were included in the consolidated financial statements of Alberto-Culver through November 16, 2006, the closing date for the Separation. After that date, the assets, revenue, cash flows and results of operations of New Sally will no longer be included in the consolidated financial statements of New Alberto-Culver and the financial position and results of operations of New Alberto-Culver will therefore be significantly different than they were prior to completion of the Separation and, following completion of the Separation, New Alberto-Culver will have materially less assets, revenue and cash flows than Alberto-Culver historically had on a consolidated basis. Alberto-Culver’s diversification resulting from operating the consumer products business of New Alberto-Culver alongside the Sally/BSG distribution business of New Sally tended to mitigate financial and operational volatility. The Separation eliminated that diversification and New Alberto-Culver may experience increased volatility in terms of cash flow, operating results, working capital and financing requirements. Following the closing of the Separation, the financial statements of New Alberto-Culver will be different from the financial statements of Alberto-Culver, which are presented in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a separate entity, New Alberto-Culver does not enjoy all of the benefits of scale that Alberto-Culver achieved with the combined consumer products and Sally/BSG distribution businesses. Historically, Alberto-Culver benefited from the scope and scale of the consumer products and Sally/BSG distribution businesses in certain areas, including, among other things, risk management, employee benefits, regulatory compliance, administrative services and human resources. The loss by New Alberto-Culver of these benefits as a consequence of the Separation could have an adverse effect on New Alberto-Culver’s business, results of operations and financial condition following completion of the Separation. In addition, it is possible that some costs will be greater for the separate company than they were for the combined company due to the loss of volume discounts and the position of being a large customer to service providers and vendors. The trading price and trading volume of New Alberto-Culver common stock may be more volatile following completion of the Separation. New Alberto-Culver cannot predict how investors in New Alberto-Culver common stock will behave after completion of the Separation. The trading price for shares of common stock of New Alberto-Culver following completion of the Separation may be more volatile than the trading price of shares of Alberto-Culver common stock before completion of the Separation. The trading price of shares of New Alberto-Culver’s common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the risks identified in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, selling by existing holders of Alberto-Culver common stock who decide that they do not want to hold some or all of their New Alberto-Culver securities after the completion of the transaction, or reasons unrelated to New Alberto-Culver’s performance. In addition, New Alberto-Culver’s common stock was removed from the S&P 500 Index and placed into the S&P Midcap 400 Index, which could ultimately result in reduced trading volume 15 relative to the historical trading volume of Alberto-Culver, which was included in the S&P 500 Index. These factors and other factors beyond New Alberto-Culver’s control may result in reduced trading volume and/or increased volatility in New Alberto-Culver’s common stock and/or short- or long-term reductions in the value of New Alberto-Culver securities. Any financing New Alberto-Culver obtains in the future could involve higher costs than it would have prior to the Separation. Following completion of the Separation, any financing that New Alberto-Culver obtains will be with the support of a reduced pool of diversified assets and therefore New Alberto-Culver may not be able to secure adequate debt or equity financing on desirable terms. The cost to New Alberto-Culver of financing without New Sally may be materially higher than the historical cost of financing of Alberto-Culver prior to the Separation. New Alberto-Culver has been put on negative credit watch by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s in connection with the Separation. If New Alberto-Culver has a credit rating lower than Alberto-Culver’s historical rating, it will be more expensive for it to obtain debt financing than it had been for Alberto-Culver. The acceleration of vesting of options to purchase shares of Alberto-Culver common stock and restricted shares in connection with the Separation may make it more difficult for New Alberto-Culver to retain key employees. Alberto-Culver treated the separation transactions as though they constituted a change in control under Alberto-Culver’s equity compensation plans. Accordingly, all outstanding options to purchase shares of Alberto-Culver common stock and all shares of restricted stock vested upon completion of the Separation. The vesting of these options and restricted shares over a period of time was used by Alberto-Culver to provide incentives to employees to remain with Alberto-Culver. The loss of this incentive may make it more difficult for New Alberto-Culver to retain certain key employees. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 