Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, which refer to our business and operations as of December 31, 2008, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the events described herein occur, our business, financial conditions, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR POTENTIAL BUSINESS Our Board of Directors has announced its approval of our liquidation and dissolution. Subject to stockholder approval, we will liquidate and distribute our assets to our public stockholders. On March 4, 2009, our Board of Directors approved the liquidation and dissolution of the Company and approved the submission of a plan of liquidation to our stockholders for their approval. Subject to such stockholder approval, we will cease our corporate existence and distribute any remaining assets to our public stockholders. Under Delaware law, our dissolution requires the approval of the holders of a majority of our outstanding stock, without which we will not be able to dissolve and liquidate and distribute our assets to our public stockholders. Our Board of Directors has determined we will not effect a business combination by June 13, 2009, and accordingly, we will promptly initiate procedures for our dissolution and the distribution of our assets, including the funds held in the Trust Account, to our public stockholders. We will seek stockholder approval for our dissolution and plan for the distribution of our assets. Upon the approval by our stockholders of our dissolution and plan for the distribution of our assets, we will liquidate our assets, including the Trust Account, and after reserving amounts sufficient to cover our liabilities and obligations and the costs of dissolution and liquidation, distribute those assets solely to our public stockholders. However, soliciting the vote of our stockholders will require the preparation of preliminary and definitive proxy statements, which will need to be filed with, and could be subject to the review of, the SEC. This process could take up to several months. As a result, the distribution of our assets to the public stockholders could be subject to a considerable delay. Furthermore, we may need to postpone the stockholders meeting, re-solicit our stockholders, or amend our plan for the distribution of our assets to obtain the required stockholder approval, all of which would further delay the distribution of our assets and result in increased costs. If we are not able to obtain approval from a majority of our stockholders, we will not be able to dissolve and we will not be able to distribute funds from our Trust Account to our public stockholders and these funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. In that event, we will continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. We cannot assure you that our stockholders will approve our dissolution in a timely manner or will ever approve our dissolution. As a result, we cannot provide investors with assurances of a specific timeframe for our dissolution and the distribution of our assets. If our stockholders do not approve a plan of dissolution and distribution and the funds remain in the Trust Account for an indeterminate amount of time, we may be considered to be an investment company. As a result of being forced to liquidate before a business combination, our public stockholders will receive less than the $8.00 per unit Public Offering price upon distribution of the Trust Account and our warrants will expire worthless. Because we have been unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation will be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of our Public Offering, our general and administrative expenses and the costs of seeking a business combination after our Public Offering. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless upon our liquidation. 8 If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per share liquidation price received by public stockholders will be less than $7.81 per share. Our placing of funds in the Trust Account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Pursuant to Delaware General Corporation Law Section 281(b), upon our dissolution we will be required to pay or make reasonable provision to pay all claims and obligations of the corporation, including all contingent, conditional, or unmatured claims. While we intend to pay those amounts from our funds not held in trust, we cannot assure you those funds will be sufficient to cover such claims and obligations. Although we are obligated to seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we do business waive any right, title, interest, or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the Trust Account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will agree to such waivers, or even if they agree to such waivers that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the Trust Account, including but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility, and other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain an advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the Trust Account. The NYSE Amex may delist our securities from trading on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the NYSE Amex, a national securities exchange. On February 10, 2009, we received a deficiency notice from the NYSE Amex indicating that we did not hold an annual meeting of stockholders in 2008 and therefore, were not in compliance with its continued listing requirements. The notice stated that we may be subject to delisting if we did not submit a plan for compliance within a specified time period. Because our Board of Directors approved our liquidation and dissolution, the NYSE Amex advised us that we would not need to submit a plan of compliance. However, on March 6, 2009, following announcement of our Board of Directors’ determination to seek dissolution and liquidation, the NYSE Amex halted trading of our warrants as they are expected to expire worthless. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the NYSE Amex in the future. If the NYSE Amex de-lists our securities from trading on its exchange and we are not able to list our securities on another exchange or to have them quoted on NASDAQ, our securities could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, or “pink sheets”. As a result, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, which is a federal statute, prevents or preempts the states from regulating the sale of certain securities, which are referred to as “covered securities”. Since we are listed on the NYSE Amex, our securities are covered securities. Although the states are preempted from regulating the sale of our securities, the federal statute does allow the states to investigate companies if there is a suspicion of fraud, and if there is a finding of fraudulent activity, then the states can regulate or bar the sale of covered securities in a particular case. While we are not aware of a state having used these powers to prohibit or restrict the sale of securities issued by blank check companies generally, certain state securities regulators view blank check companies unfavorably and might use these powers, or threaten to use these powers, to hinder the sale of securities of blank check companies in their states. In connection with the dissolution, our stock transfer books will close, after which it may not be possible for stockholders to trade in, or transfer, our stock. In connection with the dissolution, we intend to delist our common stock, warrants and units from the NYSE Amex, close our stock transfer books and discontinue recording transfers of our common stock at which time our common stock, warrants and units and certificates evidencing such securities will not be assignable or transferable on our books except by will, intestate succession or operation of law. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them in dissolution, regardless of when such claims are filed. We cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from the assets distributed to our public stockholders any amounts owed to them by us. Under the DGCL, our stockholders could be liable for any claims against the corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in dissolution. The limitations on stockholder liability under the DGCL for claims against a dissolved corporation are determined by the procedures that a corporation follows for distribution of its assets following dissolution. If we complied with the procedures set forth in Sections 280 and 281(a) of the DGCL (which would include, among other things, a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against us, a 90-day period during which we may reject any claims brought, an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, as well as review by the Delaware Court of Chancery) our stockholders would have no further liability with respect to claims on which an action, suit or proceeding is begun after the third anniversary of our dissolution. However, in accordance with our intention to liquidate and distribute our assets to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution, our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that we will comply with Section 281(b) of the DGCL instead of Sections 280 and 281(a). Accordingly, our stockholders’ liability could extend to claims for which an action, suit or proceeding is begun after the third anniversary of our dissolution. 9 Stockholders may not be able to recognize a loss for federal income tax purposes until they receive a final distribution from us. As a result of our liquidation, for United States federal income tax purposes, stockholders will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between (i) the sum of the amount of cash distributed to them and the aggregate fair market value at the time of distribution of any property distributed to them (including transfers of assets to a liquidating trust), and (ii) their tax basis in their shares of our capital stock. Any loss may generally be recognized only when the final distribution has been received from us. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 