Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Related to Our Business and Industry Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly and our current operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Our revenues and operating results could vary significantly from period to period as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our revenues and operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. We may not be able to accurately predict our future revenues or results of operations. We base our current and future expense levels on our operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are relatively fixed in the short-term. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues, and even a small shortfall in revenues could disproportionately and adversely affect financial results for that quarter. In addition, we recognize revenues from sales to some customers or resellers when cash is received, which may be delayed because of changes or issues with those customers or resellers. If our revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts that cover our stock, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. In addition to other risk factors listed in this section, factors that may affect our operating results include: • the timing of our sales during the quarter, particularly since a large portion of our sales occurs in the last few weeks of the quarter and loss or delay of a few large contracts may have a significant adverse impact on our operating results; • changes in the mix of revenues attributable to higher-margin revenues from ESM products as opposed to lower-margin revenues from sales of our appliance products; • the timing of satisfying revenue recognition criteria, including, for example, establishing (1) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value, or VSOE, for new products and maintaining VSOE for maintenance and services, particularly where we accrue the associated commission expense in a different period, and (2) sufficient history with respect to our newly introduced appliance licensing model such that revenue 14 Table of Contents recognition criteria would be met on shipment of our appliances, rather than delaying revenue recognition until payment for these transactions which we will be required to do until such history is established; • changes in the renewal rate of maintenance agreements; • our ability to estimate warranty claims accurately; • general economic conditions, both domestically and in our foreign markets, and economic conditions specifically affecting industries in which our customers participate, such as the impact of the continuing instability in global and U.S. economic and financial market conditions, including the recent instability in Europe; and • the impact of Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic ASC 740-10, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, which requires us to establish reserves for uncertain tax positions and accrue potential tax penalties and interest. Our sales cycle is long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our revenues are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from quarter to quarter, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. Our operating results may fluctuate, in part, because of the intensive nature of our sales efforts, the length and variability of the sales cycle of our ESM products and the short-term difficulty in adjusting our operating expenses. Because decisions to purchase products such as our ESM products involve significant capital commitments by customers, potential customers generally have our products evaluated at multiple levels within an organization, each often having specific and conflicting requirements. Enterprise customers make product purchasing decisions based in part on factors not directly related to the features of the products, including but not limited to the customers’ projections of business growth, uncertainty regarding economic conditions, capital budgets and anticipated cost savings from implementation of the software. As a result of these factors, selling our products often requires an extensive effort throughout a customer’s organization. The continuing instability in global and U.S. economic and financial market conditions has increased the duration of our sales cycle and requires greater intensity of our sales efforts as customers review their spending decisions. In addition, we have less experience with sales of ArcSight Express and some of our other appliance products. As a result, the sales cycle for these products may be lengthy or may vary significantly. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers, who are often relatively unfamiliar with our products and their technical capabilities, as well as the value of our products, including the potential cost savings to the organization that our products may generate. We spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. The length of our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to delivery of products, tends to be long and varies substantially from customer to customer. Our sales cycle is typically three to six months but can extend to more than a year for some sales. We typically recognize a large portion of our product revenues in the last few weeks of a quarter. It is difficult to predict exactly when, or even if, we will actually make a sale with a potential customer. As a result, large individual sales have, in some cases, occurred in quarters subsequent to those we anticipated, or have not occurred at all. The loss or delay of one or more large product transactions in a quarter could impact our operating results for that quarter and any future quarters for which revenues from that transaction are delayed. As a result of these factors, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast product revenues in any quarter. Because a substantial portion of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term, our operating results will suffer if revenues fall below our expectations in a particular quarter, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. If we fail to enhance and manage our distribution channels, our revenues could decline and our growth prospects could suffer. We derive a portion of our revenues from sales of our products and related services through channel partners, such as resellers and systems integrators. In particular, systems integrators are an important source of sales leads for us in the U.S. public sector, as government agencies often rely on them to meet information technology, or IT, needs. We also use resellers to augment our internal resources in international markets and domestically. We may be 15 Table of Contents required by our U.S. government customers to utilize particular resellers that may not meet our criteria for creditworthiness, and revenues from those resellers may not be recognizable until receipt of payment. We have derived, and anticipate that in the future we will continue to derive, a substantial portion of the sales of ArcSight Logger and other appliance products through channel partners, including parties with which we have not yet developed relationships. We expect that channel sales will represent a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. In order to scale our channel program to support growth in our business, it is important that we continue to help our partners enhance their ability to independently sell and deploy our products. We may be unable to continue to successfully expand and improve the effectiveness of our channel sales program. If we do not successfully execute our strategy to increase channel sales, particularly to further develop relationships with systems integrators to facilitate sales to large enterprises and agencies of the U.S. government, penetrate the mid-market and sell our appliance products, our growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our agreements with our channel partners are generally non-exclusive and many of our channel partners have more established relationships with our competitors. If our channel partners do not effectively market and sell our products, if they choose to place greater emphasis on products of their own or those offered by our competitors, or if they fail to meet the needs of our customers, our ability to grow our business and sell our products may be adversely affected. Similarly, the loss of a substantial number of our channel partners, who may cease marketing our products and services with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty, and our possible inability to replace them, the failure to recruit additional channel partners, or any reduction or delay in their sales of our products and services or conflicts between channel sales and our direct sales and marketing activities could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, increases in the proportion of our revenues attributable to sales by channel partners, which are more likely than direct sales to involve collectability concerns at the time of contract execution and product delivery, in particular with channel partners in developing markets, may cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period. We operate in an evolving market that has not yet reached widespread adoption and have a history of losses, and we may not be profitable in the future. We launched our ESM products in January 2002 and our first ArcSight Logger product in December 2006. Because the market for our products is rapidly evolving and has not yet reached widespread adoption, it is difficult for us to predict our operating results and the ultimate size of the market for our products. Although we recorded net income of $28.4 million and $9.9 million for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2010 and April 30, 2009, respectively, we have a history of losses from operations, incurring losses from operations of $1.4 million, $0.3 million and $16.8 million for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of April 30, 2010, our accumulated deficit was $8.4 million. We expect our operating expenses to increase over the next several years as we hire additional sales and marketing personnel, expand and improve the effectiveness of our distribution channel program and develop our technology and new products. In addition, we have incurred, and anticipate that we will continue to incur, significant legal, accounting and other expenses relating to being a public company. If our revenues do not increase to offset these expected increases in operating expenses, we may not continue to be profitable in future periods. Our historical revenue growth has been inconsistent and should not be considered indicative of our future performance. See the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Sources of Revenue, Cost of Revenues and Operating Expenses.” Further, in future periods, our revenues could decline and, accordingly, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a consistent basis, which may result in a decline in our common stock price. If we are unable to successfully develop and market new products, make enhancements to our existing products or expand our offerings into new markets, our business may not grow and our operating results may suffer. We introduced our most recent ArcSight ESM product in June 2010 and we are currently developing new versions of this product and our Logger product, as well as developing new products in our ETRM platform and new complementary products. Our growth strategy and future financial performance will depend, in part, on our ability to market and sell these products and to diversify our offerings by successfully developing, timely introducing and gaining customer acceptance of new products. 16 Table of Contents The software in our products, particularly our ArcSight ESM and ArcSight Express products, is especially complex because it must recognize, effectively interact with and manage a wide variety of devices and applications, and identify and respond to new and increasingly sophisticated security threats and other risks, while not impeding the high network performance demanded by our customers. The typical development cycle for a patch to our ESM software is one to three months, a service pack is usually four to six months and a new version or major sub-version is generally 12 to 18 months, and are released when and if available. Customers and industry analysts expect speedy introduction of software to respond to new threats and risks and to add new functionality, and we may be unable to meet these expectations. Since developing new products or new versions of, or add-ons to, existing products is complex, the timetable for their commercial release is difficult to predict and may vary from our historical experience, which could result in delays in their introduction from anticipated or announced release dates. We may not offer updates as rapidly as new threats affect our customers. If we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our customers by developing and introducing on a timely basis new and effective products, upgrades and services that can respond adequately to new security threats, our competitive position, business and growth prospects will be harmed. Diversifying our product offerings and expanding into new markets will require significant investment and planning, will bring us more directly into competition with software providers that may be better established or have greater resources than we do, will require additional investment of time and resources in the development and training of our channel and strategic partners and will entail significant risk of failure. Sales of our ArcSight Logger and ArcSight Express products and other products that we may develop and market may reduce revenues of our flagship ESM product and our overall margin by offering a subset of features or capabilities of our flagship ESM product at a reduced price with a lower gross margin. If the average selling price for orders of such alternate products is lower, we may need to sell to a larger number of customers to achieve equivalent revenues, potentially incurring increased sales, marketing and general and administrative expenses in support of those sales. Moreover, increased emphasis on the sale of our appliance products, add-on products or new product lines could distract us from sales of our core ArcSight ESM offering, negatively affecting our overall sales. If we fail or delay in diversifying our existing offerings or expanding into new markets, or we are unsuccessful competing in these new markets, our business, operating results and prospects may suffer. Our business depends, in part, on sales to the public sector, and significant changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of the public sector could have a material adverse effect on our business. We derive a portion of our revenues from contracts with federal, state, local and foreign governments and government agencies, and we believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to depend on our successful procurement of government contracts. For example, we have historically derived, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from sales to agencies of the U.S. federal government, either directly by us or through systems integrators and other resellers. In the fiscal years ended April 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we derived 32%, 22% and 20% of our revenues, respectively, from contracts with agencies of the U.S. federal government. Accordingly: • changes in fiscal or contracting policies or decreases in available government funding; • changes in government programs or applicable requirements; • the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations; • changes in political or social attitudes with respect to security issues; and • potential delays or changes in the government appropriations process, including actions such as spending freezes implemented to address political or fiscal policy concerns, could cause governments and governmental agencies to delay or refrain from purchasing the products and services that we offer in the future or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We face intense competition in our market, including with larger, better-known companies, and we may be unable to simultaneously compete effectively for enterprise threat and risk management opportunities at both the large enterprise level and for smaller mid-size customers. The market for enterprise threat and risk management products is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. We believe that there are three primary sources of competition or potential competition for our products and related professional services: • custom internal efforts; • specialized startup companies; and • large software companies. A significant source of competition, is represented by custom efforts undertaken by potential customers to analyze and manage the information produced from their existing devices and applications to identify and remediate threats and satisfy compliance requirements. While we believe that over the last several years a declining portion of potential customers are undertaking such custom efforts, that apparent trend may not continue. In addition, some organizations have outsourced these functions to managed security services providers. For customers that choose to purchase a commercial product rather than developing their own solution, a significant number of specialized, privately-held companies, such as LogLogic, netForensics, NitroSecurity, Q1 Labs and SenSage, have developed, or are developing, products that currently, or in the future are likely to, compete with some or all of our products. This includes companies with log management products that are adding SIEM functionality to their offerings and SIEM companies adding some form of log management product to their offerings, as the two fields converge. We also continue to experience competition from several larger security-focused software vendors, such as EMC, that offer functionality such as ours, primarily SIEM, as a component of suites of products that include software applications for security and compliance and enterprise management, and in some cases as a point solution. Further, as the market for our enterprise threat and risk management platform continues to grow, we expect that large diversified enterprise software and hardware vendors may seek to enter this market, either by way of the organic development of a competing product line or through the acquisition of a competitor. Competitors that offer a large array of security or software products may be able to offer products or functionality similar to ours at a more attractive price than we can by integrating or bundling them with their other product offerings. We anticipate that mergers, acquisitions or consolidations by and among actual and potential competitors will continue to accelerate. For example, in the last five years, IBM has acquired Internet Security Systems, Inc., Micromuse and Consul, Novell acquired e-Security, EMC acquired Network Intelligence and recently announced an agreement to acquire Archer Technologies and TrustWave acquired Intellitactics. Acquisitions such as these present heightened competitive challenges to our business. The consolidation in our industry increases the likelihood of competition based on integration or bundling, particularly where their products and offerings are effectively integrated, and we believe that consolidation in our industry may increase the competitive pressures we face on all our products. If we are unable to sufficiently differentiate our products from the integrated or bundled products of our competitors, such as by offering enhanced functionality, performance or value, we may see a decrease in demand for those products, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, it is possible that continued industry consolidation may impact customers’ perceptions of the viability of smaller or even medium-sized software firms and consequently customers’ willingness to purchase from such firms. Similarly, if customers seek to concentrate their software purchases in the product portfolios of a few large providers, we may be at a competitive disadvantage notwithstanding the superior performance that we believe our products can deliver. We believe that in order to remain competitive at the large enterprise level, we will need to develop and expand relationships with the large system integrators that provide broad ranging products and services for these governmental and civilian customers. A number of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as: • greater name recognition and longer operating histories; 18 Table of Contents • larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; • the capacity to leverage their sales efforts and marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of products; • broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners; • access to larger customer bases; • greater customer support; • greater resources to make acquisitions; • wider geographic presence; • lower labor and development costs; and • substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly and effectively to new or emerging technologies and changing opportunities, standards or customer requirements. In addition, these companies have reduced, and could continue to reduce, the price of their enterprise security and compliance management, log collection and storage products and managed security services, resulting in intensified pricing pressures within our market. We may not compete successfully against our current or potential competitors. Companies competing with us may introduce products that have greater performance or functionality, are easier to implement or use, or incorporate technological advances that we have not yet developed or implemented. In addition, companies competing with us may price their products more competitively than ours, or have an entirely different pricing or distribution model, such as making introductory versions with limited functionality available as freeware products. Further, wide adoption of our Common Event Format, which we are promoting as a standard for event logs generated by security and other products, may facilitate development by our competitors and potential competitors. Increased competition could result in fewer customer orders, price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. Our larger competitors and potential competitors may be able to provide customers with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide in areas such as technical qualifications or geographic presence, or to provide customers a broader range of services and products and price. In addition, large competitors may have more extensive relationships within large enterprises, the federal government or foreign governments, which relationships may provide them with an advantage in competing for business with those potential customers. We may be required to make substantial additional investments in research, development, marketing and sales in order to respond to competition, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We may not be able to compete effectively with companies that integrate or bundle products similar to ours with their other product offerings. Many large, integrated software companies offer suites of products that include software applications for security and compliance management. In addition, hardware vendors, including diversified, global concerns, offer products that address the security and compliance needs of the enterprises and government agencies that comprise our target market. Further, several companies currently sell software products that our customers and potential customers have broadly adopted, providing them a substantial advantage when they sell products that perform functions substantially similar to some of our products. Competitors that offer a large array of security or software products may be able to offer products or functionality similar to ours at a more attractive price than we can by integrating or bundling them with their other product offerings. The consolidation in our industry increases the likelihood of competition based on integration or bundling. Customers may also increasingly seek to consolidate their enterprise-level software purchases with a small number of larger companies that can purport to satisfy a broad range of their requirements. If we are unable to sufficiently differentiate our products from the integrated or bundled products of our competitors, such as by offering enhanced functionality, performance or value, we may see a decrease in demand for our products, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Similarly, if customers seek to concentrate their software purchases with a few large providers, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain and further develop our relationships with our existing customers, our operating results may decline. In recent years, the majority of our product revenues has come from sales to existing customers. Many customers make an initial purchase from us and then decide to use our products with respect to a larger portion of their business and technology infrastructure or buy additional complementary products from us. Part of our strategy is to further penetrate our existing customers by expanding their use of our platform across the enterprise and extending their use of our products to new use cases. We may not be effective in executing this or any other aspect of our growth strategy. Our revenue could decline if our current customers do not continue to purchase additional products and services from us, or make follow-on purchases at lower than historical levels. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand identity is critical to our relationships with, and to our ability to attract, new customers and partners. The successful promotion of our brand will depend largely upon our marketing and public relations efforts, our ability to continue to offer high-quality products and services, and our ability to successfully differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors, especially to the extent that our competitors integrate or bundle competitive offerings with a broader array of products and services that they may offer. Our brand promotion activities may not be successful or yield increased revenues. In addition, extension of our brand to products and uses different from our traditional products and services may dilute our brand, particularly if we fail to maintain the quality of our products and services in these new areas. Moreover, it may be difficult to maintain and enhance our brand in connection with sales through channel or strategic partners. The promotion of our brand requires us to make substantial expenditures, and we anticipate that the expenditures will increase as our market becomes more competitive and as we expand into new markets and as more sales are through our channel partners. To the extent that these activities yield increased revenues, these revenues may not offset the expenses we incur. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, our business may not grow, we may have reduced pricing power relative to competitors with stronger brands, and we could lose customers and channel partners, all of which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, independent industry analysts often provide reviews of our products and services, as well as those of our competitors, and perception of our products in the marketplace may be significantly influenced by these reviews. We have no control over what these industry analysts report, and because industry analysts may influence current and potential customers, our brand could be harmed if they do not provide a positive review of our products and services or view us as a market leader. We may have difficulty forecasting demand for our appliance products and, because we primarily rely on a single contract manufacturer for manufacture and fulfillment of our appliance products, we may be unable to fulfill orders for these appliance products. Fulfillment of sales of our appliance products involves hardware manufacturing, inventory, import certification and return merchandise authorization processes. If we fail to accurately predict demand and as a result our manufacturers maintain insufficient hardware inventory or excess inventory, we may be unable to timely deliver ordered products or may have substantial inventory expense. Because our channel partners do not purchase our products in advance of customer orders, we may face additional difficulty in accurately forecasting demand for our hardware products. This difficulty in forecasting could increase as the number of sales transactions that do not directly involve our sales force increases, which is one of the goals of our channel program, since we have limited historical experience upon which to base forecasts for these types of sales transactions. Further, as the size of individual orders increases, we may be unable to cause delivery of unforecasted orders, particularly near the end of quarterly periods. In addition, we primarily use one source for the manufacture and fulfillment of our appliance products and if this equipment vendor fails to manufacture our appliance products or fulfill orders in required volumes, in a timely manner, at a sufficient level of quality, or at all, if it is no longer financially viable or for other reasons, we may be unable to fulfill customer orders and our operating results may fluctuate from period to period, particularly if a disruption occurs near the end of a fiscal period. Disruptions in the manufacture and fulfillment of our products could damage our reputation and relationships with our customers and result in revenue declines and a 20 Table of Contents negative effect on our growth prospects. In addition, if we change our hardware configuration or manufacturer, some countries may require us to reinitiate their import certification process. If we are unable to successfully perform these functions or maintain a relationship with a fulfillment partner that does so for us, our sales, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. In addition, the process of obtaining additional or alternative capacity with a different contract manufacturer would likely result in an increase of cost of goods sold, which could negatively impact our financial performance if we are unable to offset such increases with increases in the prices we charge our customers. We face risks related to customer outsourcing to managed security service providers. Some of our customers have outsourced the management of their IT departments or the network security operations function to large systems integrators or managed security service providers, or MSSPs. If this trend continues, our established customer relationships could be disrupted and our products could be displaced by alternative system and network protection solutions offered by systems integrators or MSSPs. Significant product displacements could impact our revenues and have a negative effect on our business. While to date we have developed a number of successful relationships with MSSPs, they may develop or acquire their own technologies rather than purchasing our products for use in provision of managed security services. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our operating results. We believe that our product revenue has been seasonal historically, increasing in each quarter through the fiscal year, but with the first quarter of our fiscal year having relatively lower product revenue compared to the prior fourth fiscal quarter. However, we believe that there are significant seasonal factors that may cause the second and fourth quarters of our fiscal year to have relatively higher product revenue (with the first and third fiscal quarters each potentially having lower revenue than the immediately preceding fiscal quarter). We believe that this seasonality results from a number of factors, including: • the timing of our annual sales “club” for top performers and annual training for our entire sales force in our first fiscal quarter; • the fiscal year end procurement cycle of our government customers; • the budgeting, procurement and work cycles of our customers, including customers in the public sector; • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in the United States, Europe and certain other regions; and • the structure of our direct sales incentive and compensation program, which may reinforce the tendency of our direct sales team to book the largest volume of deals toward the end of our fiscal year. We believe that our rapid historical growth and the required timing of new compliance mandates may have overshadowed the nature or magnitude of seasonal or cyclical factors that might have influenced our business to date. In addition, the timing of one or more large transactions may overshadow seasonal factors in any particular quarterly period. In the future, we may experience growth from additional compliance and cybersecurity mandates that could continue to mask underlying seasonal purchasing decisions by our customers. Seasonal or cyclical variations in our operations may become more pronounced over time and may materially affect our results of operations in the future. For example, as noted above, the timing of our fiscal quarters and the U.S. federal government’s September 30 fiscal year end may impact product sales to governmental agencies in the second quarter of our fiscal year, offsetting the otherwise seasonal downturn in later summer months. Government spending on cybersecurity and new compliance mandates may drive customer demand at different times throughout our fiscal year, the timing of which we may not be able to anticipate and may cause fluctuations in our operating results. In addition, sales to customers with a standard December 31 fiscal year end may have a positive impact on our license revenue in the third quarter of our fiscal year, potentially offsetting the impact of the major holidays during the period. We expect seasonality to continue to impact our business in the future. 21 Table of Contents Failure to comply with laws or regulations applicable to our business could cause us to lose U.S. government customers or our ability to contract with the U.S. government. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts, which affect how we and our channel partners do business with U.S. government agencies. These laws and regulations may impose added costs on our business, and failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and requirements, including non-compliance in the past, could lead to claims for damages from our channel partners, and penalties, termination of contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting for a period of time with U.S. government agencies. Any such damages, penalties, disruption or limitation in our ability to do business with the U.S. government could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our government contracts may limit our ability to move development activities overseas and to source components from some countries, which may impair our ability to optimize our product development costs and compete for non-government contracts. Increasingly, product development and component sourcing are being shifted to lower-cost countries, such as India and China. However, some contracts with U.S. government agencies require that at least 50% of the components of each of our products be of U.S. origin or that each product be substantially transformed in the U.S. or in a country on the U.S. government’s list of designated countries. Consequently, our ability to optimize our product development by conducting it overseas and to lower our costs of goods sold by sourcing from lower cost regions may be hampered. Some of our competitors do not rely on contracts with the U.S. government to the same degree as we do and may develop product or source components offshore, or may have the scale to permit them to separately source versions of their competing products for sale to customers other than U.S. government agencies. If we are unable to develop product or source components as cost-effectively as our competitors, our ability to compete for our non-government customers may be reduced and our customer sales may decline, resulting in decreased revenues. Real or perceived errors, failures or bugs in our products could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects. Because we offer very complex products, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures or bugs in our products. Despite testing by us, errors, failures or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures and bugs in some of our product offerings after their introduction. In addition, our products could be perceived to be ineffective for a variety of reasons outside of our control. Hackers could circumvent our customers’ security measures, and customers may misuse our products resulting in a security breach or perceived product failure. We provide a top-level enterprise security and compliance management solution that integrates a wide variety of other elements in a customer’s IT and security infrastructure, and we may receive blame for a security breach that was the result of the failure of one of the other elements. Real or perceived errors, failures or bugs in our products could result in negative publicity, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position or claims by customers for losses sustained by them. In such an event, we may be required, or may choose, for customer relations or other reasons, to expend additional resources in order to help correct the problem. Our product liability insurance may not be adequate. Further, provisions in our license agreements with end users that limit our exposure to liabilities arising from such claims may not be enforceable in some circumstances or may not fully protect us against such claims and related liabilities and costs. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and could limit the amount of time that management has available for day-to-day execution and strategic planning or other matters. Many of our end-user customers use our products in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, software products. In 22 Table of Contents addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer’s systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. Alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects. In addition, because we are a leading provider of enterprise security products and services, “hackers” and others may try to access our data or compromise our systems. If we are the subject of a successful attack, then our reputation in the industry and with current and potential customers may be compromised and our sales and operating results could be adversely affected. Incorrect or improper use of our complex products, our failure to properly train customers on how to utilize our products or our failure to properly provide consulting and implementation services could result in customer dissatisfaction and negatively affect our results of operations and growth prospects. Our ESM products are complex and are deployed in a wide variety of network environments. The proper use of our products, particularly our ESM products, requires training of the end user. If our products are not used correctly or as intended, inadequate performance may result. For example, among other things, deployment of our ESM products requires categorization of IT assets and assignment of business or criticality values for each, selection or configuration of one of our pre-packaged rule sets, user interfaces and network utilization parameters, and deployment of connectors for the various devices and applications from which event data are to be collected. Our customers or our professional services personnel may incorrectly implement or use our products. Our products may also be intentionally misused or abused by customers or their employees or third parties who obtain access and use of our products. Similarly, our ArcSight Express and Logger products, while less complex than our ESM products, are often distributed through channel partners and sold to customers with smaller or less sophisticated IT departments, potentially resulting in sub-optimal installation. This may result in performance that is less than the level anticipated by the end user. Because our customers rely on our product, service and maintenance offerings to manage a wide range of sensitive security, network and compliance functions, the incorrect or improper use of our products, our failure to properly train customers on how to efficiently and effectively use our products, our failure to properly provide consulting and implementation services and maintenance to our customers or our failure to properly provide services for customer SOCs, may result in negative publicity or legal claims against us. For example, as we continue to expand our provision of SOC services, any failure by us to properly provide these high profile services will likely result in lost opportunities for follow-on sales of our software and appliance products in addition to loss of any opportunity to renew the SOC services arrangement. In addition, if customer personnel are not well trained in the use of our products, customers may defer the deployment of our products, may deploy them in a more limited manner than originally anticipated or may not deploy them at all. If there is substantial turnover of the customer personnel responsible for implementation and use of our products, our product may go unused and our ability to make additional sales may be substantially limited. If we are unable to maintain effective relationships with our technology partners, we may not be able to support the interoperability of our software with a wide variety of security and other products and our business may be harmed. A key feature of ArcSight ESM is that it provides out-of-the-box support for many third-party devices and applications that the customer may use in its business and technology infrastructure. To provide effective interoperability, we work with individual product vendors to develop our SmartConnectors, which allow our ArcSight ESM, ArcSight Logger and ArcSight Express products to interface with third party products. In addition, we are promoting the adoption of our Common Event Format as a standard way to format system log events. Some of these technology partners are current or potential competitors of ours. If we are unable to develop and maintain effective relationships with a wide variety of technology partners, if companies adopt more restrictive policies with respect to, or impose unfavorable terms and conditions on, access to their products, or if our Common Event Format is not widely adopted, we may not be able to continue to provide our customers with a high degree of 23 Table of Contents interoperability with their existing IT and business infrastructure, which could reduce our sales and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. In the fiscal years ended April 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we derived 29%, 27% and 33% of our revenues, respectively, from customers outside the United States, and we are continuing to expand our international operations as part of our growth strategy. We currently have sales personnel and sales and support operations in Australia, Austria, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Poland, Singapore, Spain and the United Kingdom. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: • increased management, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with having multiple international operations; • longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, especially in emerging markets, and the likelihood that revenues from international resellers and customers may need to be recognized when cash is received, at least until satisfactory payment history has been established; • the need to localize our products and licensing programs for international customers; • differing regulatory and legal requirements and possible enactment of additional regulations or restrictions on the use, import or export of encryption technologies and our appliance-based products, which could delay or prevent the sale or use of our products in some jurisdictions; • weaker protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; and • overlapping of different tax regimes. Any of these risks could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition and growth prospects. Our business in countries with a history of corruption and transactions with foreign governments increase the risks associated with our international activities. As we operate and sell internationally, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, deal with and make sales to governmental or quasi-governmental customers in countries known to experience corruption, particularly certain emerging countries in East Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Russia and South America. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or channel partners that could be in violation of various laws, including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. We have implemented safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees, consultants, sales agents and channel partners. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or channel partners may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, including suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracting, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop under patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States, so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology, and our business might be harmed. In addition, defending our intellectual property rights might entail significant expenses. Any of our patents, copyrights, trademarks or other 24 Table of Contents intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. We have twelve issued patents and a number of patent applications pending in the United States, internationally and in specific foreign countries. Our issued patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties, and our patent applications may never be granted at all. Additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Even if issued, there can be no assurance that these patents will adequately protect our intellectual property, as the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patent and other intellectual property rights are uncertain. Any patents that are issued may subsequently be invalidated or otherwise limited, enabling other companies to better develop products that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. In addition, issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have a right to practice the patented invention. Patent applications in the U.S. are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. We cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our issued patents or pending patent applications or otherwise used in our products, that we were the first to file for protection in our patent applications, or that third parties do not have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing or practicing our patented products or technology. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our products and services are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. We might be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology, processes and methods, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, advisors and others. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in these cases we would not be able to assert any trade secret rights against those parties. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies. Companies in the software, networking and technology industries, including some of our current and potential competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, many of these companies have the capability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. The litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenues and against whom our potential patents may provide little or no deterrence. We have received, and may in the future receive, notices that claim we have misappropriated or misused other parties’ intellectual property rights, and, to the extent we gain greater visibility, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims, which is not uncommon with respect to software technologies in general and network security technology in particular. There 25 Table of Contents may be third-party intellectual property rights, including issued or pending patents, that cover significant aspects of our technologies or business methods. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be very time-consuming, could be expensive to settle or litigate and could divert our management’s attention and other resources. These claims could also subject us to significant liability for damages, potentially including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights. These claims could also result in our having to stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We might be required to seek a license for the intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Even if a license were available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. As a result, we may be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit or stop sales of one or more of our products or product features and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on software licensed from other parties, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay software shipments. We utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties in order to provide certain elements of our product offering. For example, we license database software from Oracle that we integrate with our ESM product. Our agreement with Oracle permits us to distribute Oracle software in our products to our customers and partners worldwide through May 2011. See the section entitled “Item 1. Business — Intellectual Property — Oracle License Agreement.” Any errors or defects in this third-party software could result in errors that could harm our business. In addition, licensed software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. While we believe that there are currently adequate replacements for third-party software, any loss of the right to use any of this software could result in delays in producing or delivering our software until equivalent technology is identified and integrated, which delays could harm our business. Our business would be disrupted if any of the software we license from others or functional equivalents of this software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case, we would be required to either redesign our products to function with software available from other parties or to develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in our product shipments and the release of new product offerings. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future products. If we fail to maintain or renegotiate any of these software licenses, we could face significant delays and diversion of resources in attempting to license and integrate a functional equivalent of the software. If we are unable to attract and retain personnel, our business would be harmed. We depend on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel, in particular Tom Reilly and Hugh Njemanze, the loss of whom could harm our business. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time. We do not maintain a key-person life insurance policy on any of our officers or other employees. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, finance and other personnel, particularly in our sales and marketing, research and development and professional service departments. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous security, software and other technology companies. In addition, competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters are located. Often, significant amounts of time and resources are required to train technical, sales and other personnel. Qualified individuals are in high demand. We may incur significant costs to attract and retain them, and we may lose new employees to our competitors or other technology companies before we realize the benefit of our investment in recruiting and training them. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing technical, operational and managerial requirements, on a timely basis or at all, and we may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified personnel we need to succeed, our business would suffer. Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. Many of our senior management personnel and other key employees have become, or will soon become, 26 Table of Contents vested in a substantial amount of stock or stock options. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their vested options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to retain our employees, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business would be harmed. We operate in an emerging market and have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant expansion of our operations. In particular, we grew from 335 employees as of April 30, 2008 to 400 employees as of April 30, 2009, and then to 512 employees as of April 30, 2010. This growth has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our employees, management systems and other resources. Managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Some of our products contain “open source” software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed under “open source” licenses. Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license these modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain provisions of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. We have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organization for the use of open source software, but we cannot be sure that all open source software is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. In addition, open source license terms may be ambiguous and many of the risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. If we were found to have inappropriately used open source software, we may be required to re-engineer our products, to release proprietary source code, to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis or to take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement and other losses. Our agreements with customers and channel partners include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement and, in some cases, for damages caused by us to property or persons. The term of these indemnity provisions is generally perpetual after execution of the corresponding product sale agreement. Large indemnity payments could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes or reforms in the law or regulatory landscape could diminish the demand for our solutions, and could have a negative impact on our business. One factor that drives demand for our products and services is the legal and regulatory framework in which our customers operate. Laws and regulations are subject to drastic changes, and these could either help or hurt the demand for our products. Thus, some changes in the law and regulatory landscape, such as legislative reforms that limit corporate compliance obligations, could significantly harm our business. 27 Table of Contents Future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. We have expanded by acquisition in the past, and we may pursue additional acquisitions in the future, any of which could be material to our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability as an organization to successfully acquire and integrate technologies or businesses on a larger scale is unproven. Acquisitions involve many risks, including the following: • an acquisition may negatively impact our results of operations because it may require us to incur charges and substantial debt or liabilities, may cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, may result in acquired in-process research and development expenses or in the future may require the amortization, write-down or impairment of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill and other intangible assets, or may not generate sufficient financial return to offset acquisition costs; • we may encounter difficulties or unforeseen expenditures in integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of any company that we acquire, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us; • an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses and distract our management; • an acquisition may result in a delay or reduction of customer purchases for both us and the company acquired due to customer uncertainty about continuity and effectiveness of service from either company; • we may encounter difficulties in, or may be unable to, successfully sell any acquired products; and • an acquisition may involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are continuing to develop and refine our disclosure controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC’s rules and forms. As part of this effort, we have licensed, and our currently in the process of implementing, a new company-wide integrated enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system to handle our various business, operating and financial processes. The implementation of the ERP system is an extremely complex and time-consuming project. Any failure to properly implement, or the delay in the implementation of, the new ERP system could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our current controls and any new controls that we develop may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Further, weaknesses in our internal controls may be discovered in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may result in a restatement of our prior period financial statements. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls also could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that we are required to include in our periodic reports filed with the SEC under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial 28 Table of Contents reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, significant resources and provide significant management oversight, which involve substantial accounting-related costs. Any failure to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In the event that we are not able to continue to demonstrate compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, that our internal controls are perceived as inadequate or that we are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, investors may lose confidence in our operating results and our stock price could decline. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. We have not yet implemented a complete disaster recovery plan or business continuity plan for our accounting and related information technology systems. Any disaster could therefore materially impair our ability to maintain timely accounting and reporting. We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss carry-forwards, which could adversely affect our operating results. Due to prior period losses, we have generated significant federal and state net operating loss carry-forwards, which expire beginning in fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2015, respectively. U.S. federal and state income tax laws limit the amount of these carry-forwards we can utilize upon a greater than 50% cumulative shift of stock ownership over a three-year period, including shifts due to the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or securities convertible into our common stock. We have previously experienced a greater than 50% shift in our stock ownership, which has limited our ability to use a portion of our net operating loss carry-forwards, and we may experience subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. Accordingly, there is a risk that our ability to use our existing carry-forwards in the future could be further limited and that existing carry-forwards would be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, adversely affecting our operating results. Governmental export or import controls could subject us to liability or limit our ability to compete in foreign markets. Our products incorporate encryption technology and may be exported outside the U.S. only if we obtain an export license or qualify for an export license exception. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements regarding the export of our products, including new releases of our products, may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export of our products to some countries altogether. In addition, various countries regulate the import of our appliance-based products and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Any new export or import restrictions, new legislation or shifting approaches in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by existing customers with international operations, declining adoption of our products by new customers with international operations and decreased revenues. If we fail to comply with export and import regulations, we may be denied export privileges, be subjected to fines or other penalties and our products may be denied entry into other countries. We may become a party to litigation that may negatively affect our business results of operations or financial condition. From time to time, we may become involved in various legal proceedings relating to matters incidental to the ordinary course of our business, including employment litigation. Such matters can be expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. In addition, the outcome of litigation is highly uncertain and an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 29 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; • ratings or other changes by any securities analysts who follow our company or our industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole, such as the continuing volatility in the financial markets; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. In addition, the stock markets, and in particular The NASDAQ Global Market on which our common stock is listed, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies, particularly technology companies. Broad market fluctuations such as these may have and could continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Even prior to the continuing volatility in the financial markets, stock prices of many technology companies had fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If securities or industry analysts cease publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. Securities analysts and industry analysts that currently cover us may cease to do so, negatively impacting the trading price for our stock. If one or more of the analysts who cover us or our industry downgrade our stock or the stock of other companies in our industry, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business or industry, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Delaware law, provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and the concentration of our ownership could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if 30 Table of Contents a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: • our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms; • currently only our president and chief executive officer, our lead independent director or a majority of our board of directors is authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; • our stockholders are only able to take action at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • vacancies on our board of directors are able to be filled only by our board of directors and not by stockholders; • directors may be removed from office only for cause; • our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established, and shares of which may be issued, without stockholder approval; and • advance notice procedures will apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. In addition, as of July 1, 2010 our directors and executive officers, together with their affiliates, beneficially own in the aggregate 20.1% of our outstanding common stock (including options exercisable by those holders within 60 days of that date). Further, holders that together with their affiliates, hold 5% or more of our outstanding common stock, but who are not affiliated with our directors and executive officers, beneficially own in the aggregate an additional 20.1% of our outstanding common stock as of July 1, 2010. As a result, our directors and officers and their affiliates, collectively, or our largest stockholders, acting together, may be able to impede a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 