Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have a history of losses and may incur additional losses in the future. In 2007, 2008 and 2009 we incurred pre-tax losses of $7.7 million, $44.3 million, and $33.4 million, respectively. Our loss for 2008 includes $18.6 million in expenses associated with our support for Proposition 10, the California Alternative Fuel Vehicles and Renewable Energy ballot initiative and our loss for 2009 includes $17.4 million of derivative losses related to marking to market the value of our Series I warrants. During 2007, 2008 and 2009, our losses were substantially decreased by our receipt of approximately $17.0 million, $17.2 million and $15.5 million of revenue from federal fuel tax credits; however the law providing for the fuel tax credits expired on December 31, 2009 and has not been extended. In order to execute our strategy and improve our financial performance, we must continue to invest in developing the natural gas vehicle fuel market and offer our customers compelling natural gas fuel prices. If our natural gas sales activities and station operations do not achieve or maintain profitability that can be sustained in the absence of federal fuel tax credits, our business will suffer and the price of our common stock may drop. In addition, if the price of our common stock increases 24 Table of Contents during future periods when our Series I warrants are outstanding, we may be required to recognize material losses based on the valuation of the outstanding Series I warrants. A material portion of our historical revenues are associated with a federal fuel excise tax credit that expired on December 31, 2009. The federal excise tax credit of $0.50 per gasoline gallon equivalent of CNG and liquid gallon of LNG sold for vehicle fuel use, which began on October 1, 2006, expired December 31, 2009. Based on the service relationship we have with our customers, either we or our customers were able to claim the credit. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, we recorded approximately $17.0 million, $17.2 million and $15.5 million of revenue, respectively, related to fuel tax credits, representing approximately 14.5%, 13.7% and 11.8%, respectively, of our total revenue during the periods. If the fuel tax credit is not reinstated during 2010 or extended to future periods, our revenue during 2010 and any such future periods will be materially reduced and our financial performance will suffer. Analysts that write research on our company may also reduce their ratings or make negative adjustments to their future expectations of our financial performance if the fuel excise tax credit is not reinstated or extended to future periods, which may also result in a decrease in the price of our common stock. In the event that the NAT GAS Act passes, we may need to raise debt or equity capital to fund capital expenditures included in our 2010 capital budget. Our capital expenditure budget for 2010 anticipates substantial capital investment in the event that federal legislation providing incentives for the production and use of natural gas vehicles known as the NAT GAS Act, or HR 1835 (the New Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions Act), is successfully passed into law. If this legislation or other similar federal legislation providing substantial incentives for the sale and use of natural gas vehicles is passed, we anticipate that will need to raise capital to make the capital investments required to build the natural gas fueling infrastructure to meet anticipated demand. Our 2010 capital plan, assuming the passage of the NAT GAS Act or legislation providing for similar incentives, anticipates $86.3 million of capital expenditures during 2010, and as of December 31, 2009, we have $67.1 million in cash and $20.0 million in credit available under our line of credit from PlainsCapitalBank. If the NAT GAS Act is passed into law and we are unable to raise sufficient capital to make the investments called for under our 2010 capital budget, our ability to increase revenues through growth in customers and sales will be reduced and competitors may be successful in capturing growth in the natural gas fueling business that is incentivized by the NAT GAS Act. We may need to raise debt or equity capital to fund unanticipated expenses, capital expenditures, mergers and acquisitions or strategic investments. If the NAT GAS Act is not passed into law, we may nevertheless be required to raise debt or equity capital to fund unanticipated expenses, capital expenditures, mergers, acquisitions or strategic investments. Equity or debt financing options may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all, particularly if there are no effective federal incentives supporting the growth of the natural gas fueling business. Additional sales of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock will dilute existing stockholders and may result in a decline in our stock price. We may also pursue debt financing options including, but not limited to, equipment financing, the sale of convertible promissory notes or commercial bank financing. Recent economic turmoil and severe lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets and volatility and rapidly falling prices in the equity capital markets have severely and adversely affected capital raising opportunities. If we are unable to obtain debt or equity financing in amounts sufficient to fund any unanticipated expenses, capital expenditures, mergers, acquisitions or strategic investments, we will be forced to suspend or curtail these capital expenditures or postpone or 25 Table of Contents delay potential acquisitions or other strategic transactions, which could harm our business, results of operations, and future prospects. Our growth depends in part on tax and related government incentives for clean burning fuels and alternative fuel vehicles. A reduction in these incentives or the failure to pass new legislation with new incentive programs will increase the cost of natural gas fuel and vehicles for our customers and will significantly reduce our revenue. Our business depends in part on tax credits, rebates and similar federal, state and local government incentives that promote the use of natural gas as a vehicle fuel in the United States. The federal fuel excise tax credit for the sale of natural gas fuel expired on December 31, 2009 and the federal income tax credit that is available to offset 50% to 80% of the incremental cost of purchasing new or converted natural gas vehicles is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010, and if these tax credits are not extended, it will have a detrimental effect on the natural gas vehicle industry, including sales at our wholly owned subsidiary, BAF Technologies, Inc., and adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. Our business plan and the ability of our business to successfully grow depends in part on the reinstatement and extension of the federal fuel excise tax credit for natural gas vehicle fuel, the extension of the federal income tax credit for the purchase of natural gas vehicles and the passage of legislation providing for additional incentives for the sale and use of natural gas vehicles, such as the NAT GAS Act. If existing federal incentives are not reinstated or extended and if new incentive programs like the NAT GAS Act are not passed, fewer natural gas vehicles will be sold and used and our revenue and financial performance will be adversely affected. In addition, if grant funds are no longer available under existing government programs for the purchase and construction of natural gas vehicles and stations, the purchase of or conversion to natural gas vehicles and station construction could slow and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Continued reduction in tax revenues associated with high unemployment rates, economic recession or slow-down could result in a significant reduction in funds available for government grants that support vehicle conversion and station construction, which could impair our ability to grow our business. Automobile and engine manufacturers produce very few originally manufactured natural gas vehicles and engines for the U.S. and Canadian markets, which may restrict our sales. Limited availability of natural gas vehicles restricts their wide scale introduction and narrows our potential customer base. Original equipment manufacturers produce a small number of natural gas engines and vehicles, and they may not make adequate investments to expand their natural gas engine and vehicle product lines. For the North American market, there is only one major automobile manufacturer that makes natural gas powered passenger vehicles, and major manufacturers of medium and heavy duty vehicles produce only a narrow range and number of natural gas vehicles. In addition, the only natural gas vehicle engine designed for Class 8 trucks available in North America is not certified by the EPA for 2010 emission standards, and therefore cannot be sold until the EPA certification is obtained. The technology utilized in some of the heavy duty vehicles that run on LNG is also relatively new and has not been previously deployed or used in large numbers of vehicles. As a result, these vehicles may require servicing and further technology refinements to address performance issues that may occur as vehicles are deployed in large numbers and are operated under strenuous conditions. If potential heavy duty LNG truck purchasers are not satisfied with truck performance, the existing Class 8 natural gas engines are not 2010 certified or additional heavy duty truck engine manufacturers do not enter the market for LNG engines, it may delay, impair, or eliminate the growth of our LNG fueling business, which would impair our financial performance. Further, North American car and truck manufacturers are facing significant economic challenges that may make it difficult or impossible for them to introduce new natural gas vehicles in the North American market or continue to manufacture and support the limited number of available natural gas vehicles. Due to the limited 26 Table of Contents supply of natural gas vehicles, our ability to promote natural gas vehicles and our natural gas fuel sales may be restricted, even if there is demand. Decreases in the price of oil, gasoline and diesel fuel without similar decreases in the price of natural gas may slow the growth of our business and negatively impact our financial results. Prices for oil, gasoline and diesel fuel have declined substantially from the recent high prices reached in the summer of 2008. The price of a barrel of crude oil has declined from a high of $148.35 per barrel reached on July 11, 2008 to a price of $79.36 per barrel on December 31, 2009. Average retail prices for ultra low sulfur diesel fuel in California have declined from a high of $5.03 in May and June 2008 to $2.90 per gallon at December 31, 2009, and average retail prices for gasoline in California have declined from a high of $4.59 per gallon in June 2008 to $2.93 per gallon at December 31, 2009. The decrease in the price of diesel and gasoline, in particular, has resulted in reduced interest in alternative fuels such as LNG and CNG. Decreased interest in alternative fuels will slow the growth of our business. In addition, to the extent that we price our CNG and LNG fuel at a discount to these reduced diesel or gasoline prices in an effort to attract new and retain existing customers, our profit margin on fuel sales may be harmed and our financial results negatively impacted. Our retail prices for LNG fuel in California decreased from $3.70 per diesel gallon equivalent in June and July of 2008 to $2.20 per diesel gallon equivalent at December 31, 2009, and our retail prices for CNG fuel sold in the Los Angeles Basin decreased from a high of $3.30 per gasoline gallon equivalent in July of 2008 to $2.50 per gasoline gallon equivalent at December 31, 2009. Lower fuel prices for CNG and LNG as a result of lower natural gas commodity prices also will reduce our revenues. If the prices of CNG and LNG do not remain sufficiently below the prices of gasoline and diesel, potential fleet customers will have less incentive to purchase natural gas vehicles, which would decrease demand for CNG and LNG and limit our growth. Natural gas vehicles cost more than comparable gasoline or diesel powered vehicles because converting a vehicle to use natural gas adds to its base cost. If the prices of CNG and LNG do not remain sufficiently below the prices of gasoline or diesel, fleet operators may be unable to recover the additional costs of acquiring or converting to natural gas vehicles in a timely manner, and they may choose not to use natural gas vehicles. Our ability to offer CNG and LNG fuel to our customers at lower prices than gasoline and diesel depends in part on natural gas prices remaining lower, on an energy equivalent basis, than oil prices. If the price of oil declines and the price of natural gas increases, it will make it more difficult for us to offer our customers discounted prices for CNG and LNG as compared to gasoline and diesel prices and maintain an acceptable margin on our sales. Recent and significant volatility in oil and gasoline prices demonstrate that it is difficult to predict future transportation fuel costs. In addition, any new regulations imposed on natural gas extraction in the United States, particularly on extraction of natural gas from shale formations, could increase the costs of domestic gas production or make it unprofitable to produce natural gas in the United States, which could lead to substantial increases in the price of natural gas. Reduced prices for gasoline and diesel fuel and continuing uncertainty about fuel prices, combined with higher costs for natural gas and natural gas vehicles, may cause potential customers to delay or reject converting their fleets to run on natural gas. In that event, our sales of natural gas fuel and vehicles would be slowed and our business would suffer. The volatility of natural gas prices could adversely impact the adoption of CNG and LNG vehicle fuel and our business. In the recent past, the price of natural gas has been volatile, and this volatility may continue. From the end of 1999 through the end of 2009, the price for natural gas, based on the NYMEX daily futures data, ranged from a low of $1.65 per Mcf to a high of $19.38 per Mcf. As of March 1, 2010, the 27 Table of Contents NYMEX index price for natural gas was $4.81 per Mcf. Increased natural gas prices affect the cost to us of natural gas and will adversely impact our operating margins in cases where we have committed to sell natural gas at a fixed price without an effective futures contract in place that fully mitigates the price risk or where we otherwise cannot pass on the increased costs to our customers. In addition, higher natural gas prices may cause CNG and LNG to cost as much as or more than gasoline and diesel generally, which would adversely impact the adoption of CNG and LNG as a vehicle fuel. Conversely, lower natural gas prices reduce our revenues due to the fact that in a significant amount of our customer agreements the commodity cost is passed through to the customer. Among the factors that can cause price fluctuations in natural gas prices are changes in domestic and foreign supplies of natural gas, domestic storage levels, crude oil prices, the price difference between crude oil and natural gas, price and availability of alternative fuels, weather conditions, level of consumer demand, economic conditions, price of foreign natural gas imports, and domestic and foreign governmental regulations and political conditions. In particular, there have been recent legislative efforts to place new regulatory requirements on the production of natural gas by hydraulic fracturing of shale gas reservoirs. Hydraulic fracturing of shale gas reservoirs has resulted in a substantial increase in the proven natural gas reserves in the United States, and any change in regulations that makes it substantially more expensive or unprofitable to produce natural gas through hydraulic fracturing could lead to increased natural gas prices. The recent economic recession and increased domestic natural gas supplies have contributed to significant declines in the price of natural gas since the summer of 2008. Our growth depends in part on environmental regulations and programs mandating the use of cleaner burning fuels, and modification or repeal of these regulations may adversely impact our business. Our business depends in part on environmental regulations and programs in the United States that promote or mandate the use of cleaner burning fuels, including natural gas for vehicles. In particular, the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach have adopted the San Pedro Bay Ports Clean Air Action Plan, which outlines a Clean Trucks Program that calls for the replacement of drayage trucks with trucks that meet certain clean truck standards. Industry participants with a vested interest in gasoline and diesel, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do, invest significant time and money in an effort to influence environmental regulations in ways that delay or repeal requirements for cleaner vehicle emissions. Further, an economic recession may result in the delay, amendment or waiver of environmental regulations or the Clean Trucks Program due to the perception that they impose increased costs on the transportation industry that cannot be absorbed in a contracting economy. For example, the Clean Trucks Program formerly called for the replacement of a set number of drayage trucks with "clean" trucks, but due to economic conditions and other factors, the Clean Trucks Program no longer calls for any specific number of "clean" truck replacements. In addition, many of the clean trucks that have been deployed have been clean diesel trucks which are generally less expensive than LNG trucks. There have also been recent ballot initiatives commenced in the State of California and political support for postponing or delaying California's implementation of AB 32, which is intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. CNG, LNG and biomethane vehicle fuel all produce fewer greenhouse gases than gasoline or diesel fuel and the delay or repeal of AB 32, and in particular California's low-carbon fuel standard, could reduce the appeal of natural gas fuel for our customers and reduce our revenue. The delay, repeal or modification of federal or state regulations or programs that encourage the use of cleaner vehicles, and in particular the Clean Trucks Program outlined in the San Pedro Bay Ports Clean Air Action Plan, could also have a detrimental effect on the U.S. natural gas vehicle industry, which, in turn, could slow our growth and adversely affect our business. The use of natural gas as a vehicle fuel may not become sufficiently accepted for us to expand our business. To expand our business, we must develop new fleet customers and obtain and fulfill CNG and LNG fueling contracts from these customers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop 28 Table of Contents these customers or obtain these fueling contracts. Whether we will be able to expand our customer base will depend on a number of factors, including the level of acceptance and availability of natural gas vehicles, the growth in our target markets of fueling station infrastructure that supports CNG and LNG sales and our ability to supply CNG and LNG at competitive prices. The decline in oil, diesel and gasoline prices from the levels they reached during the summer of 2008 has resulted in decreased interest in alternative fuels like CNG and LNG. In addition, the disruption in the capital markets that began in 2008 has reduced the availability of debt financing to support the purchase of CNG and LNG vehicles and investment in CNG and LNG infrastructure. If our potential customers are unable to access credit to purchase natural gas vehicles, it may make it difficult or impossible for them to invest in natural gas vehicle fleets, which would impair the ability of our business to grow. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in managing or integrating our recently acquired subsidiary, BAF Technologies, Inc., with our existing operations. On October 1, 2009, we closed our acquisition of 100% of the equity interests of BAF Technologies, Inc., which is now our wholly owned subsidiary. BAF provides natural gas vehicle conversions, alternative fuel systems, application engineering, service and warranty support and research and development services. Historically, BAF has suffered net operating losses and required outside financing to support its ongoing business. Our ability to realize benefits from the acquisition depends on our ability to improve BAF's financial performance in comparison to its historical financial results. Our management team has limited experience managing a vehicle conversion company and BAF represents a new product offering for our company. The successful management and integration of BAF's operations will present significant challenges, including realizing economies of scale and integrating internal financial and operational systems. We cannot assure you that we will realize any anticipated benefits or will successfully integrate any of the acquired operations with our existing operations. In addition, the BAF operations do not have the disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting that are as thorough or effective as those required for public companies. Although we intend to implement appropriate controls and procedures as we integrate the BAF operations, we cannot provide assurance as to the effectiveness of BAF's disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting until we have fully integrated them. Failure to comply with the terms of our Credit Agreement with PlainsCapital Bank could impair our rights in DCE and other secured property. In August 2008, we acquired a 70% interest in DCE, which manages a biomethane production facility at the McCommas Bluff landfill in Dallas, Texas and holds a lease to the associated landfill gas development rights. We borrowed $18 million from PlainsCapital Bank ("PCB") to fund the acquisition and obtained a $12 million line of credit from PCB to pay certain costs and expenses of the acquisition and finance capital improvements of the gas processing plant through a loan made by us to DCE. We have used $12.0 million of the line of credit from PCB and the outstanding balance was $10.0 million as of December 31, 2009. In October, 2009, we repaid the $18 million loan that we used to fund the acquisition of DCE and amended the Credit Agreement to obtain a $20 million line of credit from PlainsCapital Bank to finance capital expenditures and working capital for our operations and for other general business purposes. As of the date of filing of this Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2009, we had not borrowed any money under the $20 million line of credit. To secure our obligations under the Credit Agreement, we granted PCB a security interest in 45 of our LNG tanker trailers, certain accounts receivable and inventory, and our note receivable from, and our membership interests in DCE. Our Credit Agreement with PCB requires that we comply with certain covenants. One of the covenants requires that we maintain accounts receivable balances from certain subsidiaries above $8 million at each quarter-end during the term. To the extent natural gas prices fall, which would result in decreased revenues, or our volumes sold decline, we could violate this covenant. Also, beginning with the quarter ending June 30, 2009, we are required to maintain a specific minimum 29 Table of Contents debt service ratio. Should our operating results not materialize as planned, we could violate this covenant. If we were to violate a covenant, we would seek a waiver from the bank, which the bank is not obligated to grant. If the bank does not grant a waiver, all of the obligations under the Credit Agreement will become immediately due and payable and $2.5 million of our funds held by PCB would be applied to the balance due on the PCB loans. We also would be unable to use the $20 million PCB line of credit if this were to occur. The infrastructure to support gasoline and diesel consumption is vastly more developed than the infrastructure for natural gas vehicle fuels. Gasoline and diesel fueling stations and service infrastructure are widely available in the United States. For natural gas vehicle fuels to achieve more widespread use in the United States and Canada, they will require a promotional and educational effort and the development and supply of more natural gas vehicles and fueling stations. This will require significant continued effort by us, as well as government and clean air groups, and we may face resistance from oil companies and other vehicle fuel companies. A prolonged economic recession and continued disruption in the capital markets may make it difficult or impossible to obtain financing to expand the natural gas vehicle fueling infrastructure and impair our ability to grow our business. There is no assurance natural gas will ever achieve the level of acceptance as a vehicle fuel necessary for us to expand our business significantly. Conversion of vehicles to run on natural gas is time-consuming and expensive and may limit the growth of our sales. Conversion of vehicle engines from gasoline or diesel to natural gas is performed by only a small number of vehicle conversion suppliers (including our wholly owned subsidiary, BAF Technologies, Inc.) that must meet stringent safety and engine emissions certification standards. The engine certification process is time consuming and expensive and raises vehicle costs. In addition, conversion of vehicle engines from gasoline or diesel to natural gas may result in vehicle performance issues or increased maintenance costs that could discourage our potential customers from purchasing converted vehicles that run on natural gas and impair the financial performance of our recently acquired subsidiary, BAF. Without an increase in vehicle conversion options, reduced vehicle conversion costs and improved vehicle conversion performance, our sales of natural gas vehicle fuel and converted natural gas vehicles (through our recently acquired subsidiary BAF) may be restricted and our revenue will be reduced both by less demand for natural gas vehicle fuel and less demand for converted natural gas vehicles. A majority of our sales of CNG vehicles are to one customer. If this customer does not continue to purchase CNG vehicles, then revenue at our wholly owned subsidiary, BAF, will decline and our financial results will be impaired. During 2009, our wholly owned subsidiary, BAF Technologies, Inc., derived approximately 63% of its revenue from AT&T. During 2010, BAF anticipates that a similar percentage of its revenue will also be derived from sales to AT&T. AT&T is not required to purchase any conversion kits under its agreement with BAF and the agreement and all purchase orders submitted by AT&T under the agreement may be cancelled by AT&T at any time for any reason. If AT&T does not continue to order and pay for CNG conversion kits produced by BAF, then BAF's sales revenue will substantially decline and our financial performance may suffer. 30 Table of Contents If there are advances in other alternative vehicle fuels or technologies, or if there are improvements in gasoline, diesel or hybrid engines, demand for natural gas vehicles may decline and our business may suffer. Technological advances in the production, delivery and use of alternative fuels that are, or are perceived to be, cleaner, more cost-effective or more readily available than CNG or LNG have the potential to slow adoption of natural gas vehicles. Advances in gasoline and diesel engine technology, especially hybrids, may offer a cleaner, more cost-effective option and make fleet customers less likely to convert their fleets to natural gas. Technological advances related to ethanol or biodiesel, which are increasingly used as an additive to, or substitute for, gasoline and diesel fuel, may slow the need to diversify fuels and affect the growth of the natural gas vehicle market. In addition, a prototype heavy duty electric truck model was recently introduced at the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. Use of electric heavy duty trucks or the perception that electric heavy duty trucks may soon be widely available and provide satisfactory performance in heavy duty applications may reduce demand for heavy duty LNG trucks. In addition, hydrogen and other alternative fuels in experimental or developmental stages may eventually offer a cleaner, more cost-effective alternative to gasoline and diesel than natural gas. Advances in technology that slow the growth of or conversion to natural gas vehicles, or which otherwise reduce demand for natural gas as a vehicle fuel, will have an adverse effect on our business. Failure of natural gas vehicle technology to advance at a sufficient pace may also limit its adoption and our ability to compete with other alternative fuels and alternative fuel vehicles. Our ability to supply LNG to new and existing customers is restricted by limited production of LNG and by our ability to source LNG without interruption and near our target markets. Production of LNG in the United States is fragmented. LNG is produced at a variety of smaller natural gas plants around the United States, as well as at larger plants. It may become difficult for us to obtain additional LNG without interruption and near our current or target markets at competitive prices. If our LNG liquefaction plants, or any of those from which we purchase LNG, are damaged by severe weather, earthquake or other natural disaster, or otherwise experience prolonged downtime, our LNG supply will be restricted. If we are unable to supply enough of our own LNG or purchase it from third parties to meet existing customer demand, we may be liable to our customers for penalties. Our growth plans, if successful, will require substantial growth in the available LNG supply across the United States, and if this supply is unavailable, it will necessarily constrain our ability to grow the market for LNG fuel including supplying LNG fuel to heavy duty truck consumers. An LNG supply interruption or LNG demand that exceeds available supply will also limit our ability to expand LNG sales to new customers and could disrupt our relationship with existing customers, which would hinder our growth. Furthermore, because transportation of LNG is relatively expensive, if we are required to supply LNG to our customers from distant locations and cannot push these costs on to our customers, our operating margins will decrease on those sales due to our increased transportation costs. LNG supply purchase commitments may exceed demand causing our costs to increase and impact LNG sales margins. Two of our LNG supply agreements have a take or pay commitment and our California LNG liquefaction plant has land lease and other fixed operating costs regardless of production and sales levels. The take or pay commitments, one of which we anticipate will commence in March 2010 when the supplier's LNG plant commences operations, require us to pay for the LNG that we have agreed to purchase irrespective of whether we can sell the LNG to our own customers. Should the market demand for LNG decline or if we lose significant LNG customers or if demand under any existing or any future LNG supply contract does not maintain its volume levels or grow, overall operating and supply costs may increase as a percentage of revenue and negatively impact our margins. 31 Table of Contents One of our third-party LNG suppliers may cancel its supply contract with us on short notice or increase its LNG prices, which would hinder our ability to meet customer demand and increase our costs. Under certain circumstances, Williams Gas Processing Company ("Williams") may terminate our LNG supply contract with them on short notice. Williams may also significantly increase the price of LNG we purchase upon 24 hours' notice if their costs to produce LNG increases, and we may be required to reimburse them for certain other expenses. Our contract with Williams, which supplied 32% of the LNG we sold for the year ended December 31, 2007, 29% for the year ended December 31, 2008, and 14% for the year ended December 31, 2009, expires on June 30, 2011. Furthermore, there are a limited number of LNG suppliers in or near the areas where our LNG customers are located. It may be difficult to replace an LNG supplier, and we may be unable to obtain alternate suppliers at acceptable prices, in a timely manner or at all. If significant supply interruptions occur, our ability to meet customer demand will be impaired, customers may cancel orders and we may be subject to supply interruption penalties. If we are subject to LNG price increases, our operating margins may be impaired and we may be forced to sell LNG at a loss under our LNG supply contracts. If we are unable to obtain natural gas in the amounts needed on a timely basis or at reasonable prices, we could experience an interruption of CNG or LNG deliveries or increases in CNG or LNG costs, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Some regions of the United States and Canada depend heavily on natural gas supplies coming from particular fields or pipelines. Interruptions in field production or in pipeline capacity could reduce the availability of natural gas or possibly create a supply imbalance that increases natural gas prices. We have in the past experienced LNG supply disruptions due to severe weather in the Gulf of Mexico and plant outages. If there are interruptions in field production, insufficient pipeline capacity, equipment failure on liquefaction production or delivery delays, we may experience supply stoppages which could result in our inability to fulfill delivery commitments. This could result in our being liable for contractual damages and daily penalties or otherwise adversely affect our business. Oil companies and natural gas utilities, which have far greater resources and brand awareness than we have, may expand into the natural gas fuel market, which could harm our business and prospects. There are numerous potential competitors who could enter the market for CNG and LNG vehicle fuels. Many of these potential entrants, such as integrated oil companies and natural gas utilities, have far greater resources and brand awareness than we have. If the use of natural gas vehicles and demand for natural gas vehicle fuel increases, these companies may find it more attractive to enter the market for natural gas vehicle fuels and we may experience increased pricing pressure, reduced operating margins and fewer expansion opportunities. If we do not have effective futures contracts in place, increases in natural gas prices may cause us to lose money. From 2005 to 2008, we sold and delivered approximately 30% of our total gasoline gallon equivalents of CNG and LNG under contracts that provided a fixed price or a price cap to our customers over terms typically ranging from one to three years, and in some cases up to five years. At any given time, however, the market price of natural gas may rise and our obligations to sell fuel under fixed price contracts may be at prices lower than our fuel purchase or production price if we do not have effective futures contracts in place. This circumstance has in the past and may again in the future compel us to sell fuel at a loss, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Commencing with the adoption of our revised natural gas hedging policy in February 2007, our policy has been to purchase futures contracts to hedge our exposure to variability related to our fixed price contracts. Such contracts, however, may not be available or we may not have sufficient 32 Table of Contents financial resources to secure such contracts. In addition, under our hedging policy, we may reduce or remove futures contracts we have in place related to these contracts if such disposition is approved in advance by our board of directors and derivative committee. If we are not economically hedged with respect to our fixed price contracts, we will lose money in connection with those contracts during periods in which natural gas prices increase above the prices of natural gas included in our customers' contracts. As of December 31, 2009, we were economically hedged with respect to all four of our fixed price contracts with our customers. Our futures contracts may not be as effective as we intend. Our purchase of futures contracts can result in substantial losses under various circumstances, including if we do not accurately estimate the volume requirements under our fixed price customer contracts when determining the volumes included in the futures contracts we purchase, or we are required to purchase a futures contract in connection with a bid proposal and ultimately we are not awarded the entire contract or our customer does not fully perform its obligations under the awarded contract. We also could incur significant losses if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable futures arrangement, the futures arrangement is economically imperfect or ineffective, or our futures policies and procedures are not properly followed or do not work as planned. Furthermore, we cannot assure that the steps we take to monitor our futures activities will detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures. A decline in the value of our futures contracts may result in margin calls that would adversely impact our liquidity. We are required to maintain a margin account to cover losses related to our natural gas futures contracts. Futures contracts are valued daily, and if our contracts are in loss positions at the end of a trading day, our broker will transfer the amount of the losses from our margin account to a clearinghouse. If at any time the funds in our margin account drop below a specified maintenance level, our broker will issue a margin call that requires us to restore the balance. Payments we make to satisfy margin calls will reduce our cash reserves, adversely impact our liquidity and may also adversely impact our ability to expand our business. Moreover, if we are unable to satisfy the margin calls related to our futures contracts, our broker may sell these contracts to restore the margin requirement at a substantial loss to us. At December 31, 2009, we had $2.9 million on deposit related to our futures contracts. If our futures contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, our net income and stockholders' equity will fluctuate more significantly from quarter to quarter based on fluctuations in the market value of our futures contracts. We account for our futures activities under the relevant derivative accounting guidance, which requires us to value our futures contracts at fair market value in our financial statements. Our futures contracts historically have not qualified for hedge accounting, and therefore we have recorded any changes in the fair market value of these contracts directly in our consolidated statements of operations in the line item "derivative (gains) losses" along with any realized gains or losses during the period. Currently, we attempt to qualify all of our futures contracts for hedge accounting under the relevant derivative accounting guidance, but there can be no assurances that we will be successful in doing so. At December 31, 2009, all of our futures contracts qualified for hedge accounting. To the extent that all or some of our futures contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, we could incur significant increases and decreases in our net income and stockholders' equity in the future based on fluctuations in the market value of our futures contracts from quarter to quarter. For example, related to our natural gas futures contracts, we experienced a derivative gain of $33.1 million and $5.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2005 and June 30, 2008, respectively, and experienced derivative losses of $19.9 million, $0.3 million, $65.0 million, $13.7 million, $6.0 million and $0.3 million for the 33 Table of Contents three months ended December 31, 2005, March 31, 2006, September 30, 2006, December 31, 2006, September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2008, respectively. We had no derivative gains or losses related to our natural gas futures contracts for the three months ended June 30, 2006, March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007, September 30, 2007, December 31, 2007, March 31, 2008, March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009, September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009. Any negative fluctuations may cause our stock price to decline due to our failure to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Compliance with potential greenhouse gas regulations affecting our LNG plants or fueling stations may prove costly and negatively affect our financial performance. California has adopted legislation, AB 32, or the Global Warming Solutions Act, which calls for a cap on greenhouse gas emissions throughout California and a statewide reduction to 1990 levels by 2020, and an additional 80% reduction below 1990 levels by 2050. Seven western U.S. states (Arizona, California, Montana, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah and Washington) and four Canadian provinces (British Columbia, Manitoba, Ontario and Quebec) formed the Western Climate Initiative to help combat climate change. Other states and the federal government are considering passing measures to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Any of these regulations, when and if implemented, may regulate the greenhouse gas emissions produced by our LNG production plants in California and Texas or our LNG and CNG fueling stations and require that we obtain emissions credits or invest in costly emissions prevention technology. We cannot currently estimate the potential costs associated with federal or state regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from our LNG plants or LNG and CNG stations, and these unknown costs are not contemplated in the financial terms of our customer agreements. These unanticipated costs may have a negative impact on our financial performance and may impair our ability to fulfill customer contracts at an operating profit. Natural gas fueling operations and vehicle conversions entail inherent safety and environmental risks that may result in substantial liability to us. Natural gas fueling operations and vehicle conversions entail inherent risks, including equipment defects, malfunctions and failures and natural disasters, which could result in uncontrollable flows of natural gas, fires, explosions and other damages. For example, operation of LNG pumps requires special training and protective equipment because of the extreme low temperatures of LNG. LNG tanker trailers have also in the past been, and may in the future be, involved in accidents that result in explosions, fires and other damage. Improper refueling of LNG vehicles can result in venting of methane gas, which is a potent greenhouse gas, and LNG related methane emissions may in the future be regulated by the EPA or by state regulations. Additionally, CNG fuel tanks, if damaged or improperly maintained, may rupture and the contents of the tank may rapidly decompress and result in death or injury. In 2007, a driver of a CNG van in Los Angeles was killed when the previously damaged tanks he was fueling ruptured. These risks may expose us to liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damage. We may incur substantial liability and cost if damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits. Our business is heavily concentrated in the western United States, particularly in California and Arizona. Continuing economic downturns in these regions could adversely affect our business. Our operations to date have been concentrated in California and Arizona. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, sales in California accounted for 40%, 45% and 49% respectively, and sales in Arizona accounted for 20%, 14% and 10%, respectively, of the total amount of gallons we delivered. A decline in the economy in these areas could slow the rate of adoption of natural gas vehicles, reduce fuel consumption or reduce the availability of government grants, any of which could negatively affect our growth. 34 Table of Contents We provide financing to fleet customers for natural gas vehicles, which exposes our business to credit risks. We loan to certain qualifying customers on average 75%, and occasionally up to 100%, of the purchase price of natural gas vehicles. We may also lease vehicles to customers in the future. There are risks associated with providing financing or leasing that could cause us to lose money. Some of these risks include: most of the equipment financed consists of vehicles, which are mobile and easily damaged, lost or stolen, there is a risk the borrower may default on payments, we may not be able to bill properly or track payments in adequate fashion to sustain growth of this service, and the amount of capital available to us is limited and may not allow us to make loans required by customers. Some of our customers, such as taxi owners, may depend on the CNG vehicles that we finance or lease to them as their sole source of income, which may make it difficult for us to recover the collateral in a bankruptcy proceeding. The continued disruption in the credit markets may further reduce the amount of capital available to us and an economic recession or continued economic contraction may increase the rate of default by borrowers, leading to an increase in losses on our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, we had $3.6 million outstanding in loans provided to customers to finance natural gas vehicle purchases. We may incur losses and use working capital if we are unable to place with customers the natural gas vehicles that we or our business partners order from manufacturers. To ensure availability for our customers, from time to time we enter into binding purchase agreements for natural gas vehicles when there is a production lead time. Although we attempt to arrange for customers to purchase the vehicles before delivery to us, we may be unable to locate purchasers on a timely basis and consequently may need to take delivery of and title to the vehicles. These purchases would adversely affect our cash reserves until such time as we can sell the vehicles to our customers, and we may be forced to sell the vehicles at a loss. At December 31, 2009, we had $0.6 million in aggregate deposits outstanding on natural gas vehicles. We have significant contracts with federal, state and local government entities that are subject to unique risks. We have existing, and will continue to seek, long-term LNG and CNG station construction, maintenance and fuel sales contracts with various federal, state and local governmental bodies, which accounted for approximately 64% of our yearly revenues from 2006 through 2009. In May 2009, we spent $5.6 million to acquire four new CNG operation and maintenance contracts with government agencies. In addition to our normal business risks, our contracts with these government entities are often subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control. Long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made. The termination of funding for a government program supporting any of our CNG or LNG operations could result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program, which could have a negative impact on our operations. In addition, government entities with whom we contract are often able to modify, curtail or terminate contracts with us without prior notice at their convenience, and are only liable for payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Modification, curtailment or termination of significant contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, if any of the contracts we recently acquired are terminated, we may be unable to recover our investment in acquiring the contracts. Further, many governmental entities are experiencing significant budget deficits as a result of the economic recession, which has and may continue to reduce or curtail their ability to fund natural gas fuel programs, purchase natural gas vehicles or provide public transportation and services, which would harm our business. 35 Table of Contents Our business is subject to a variety of governmental regulations that may restrict our business and may result in costs and penalties. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment and taxation, among others. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including assessment of monetary penalties and the imposition of remedial requirements. From time to time, as part of the regular overall evaluation of our operations, including newly acquired operations, we may be subject to compliance audits by regulatory authorities. In addition, any failure to comply with regulations related to the government procurement process at the federal, state or local level or restrictions on political activities and lobbying may result in administrative or financial penalties including being barred from providing services to governmental entities, which accounted for approximately 64% of our yearly revenues from 2006 through 2009. In connection with our LNG liquefaction activities and the landfill gas processing facility operated by DCE, we need or may need to apply for additional facility permits or licenses to address storm water or wastewater discharges, waste handling, and air emissions related to production activities or equipment operations. This may subject us to permitting conditions that may be onerous or costly. Compliance with laws and regulations and enforcement policies by regulatory agencies could require us to make material expenditures, which may distract our officers, directors and employees from the operation of our business. Operational issues, permitting and other factors at DCE's landfill gas processing facility may adversely affect both DCE's ability to supply biomethane and our operating results. In August 2008, we acquired our 70% interest in DCE. In April 2009, DCE entered into a 15-year gas sale agreement with Shell for the sale to Shell of specified levels of biomethane produced by DCE's landfill gas processing facility. There is, however, no guarantee that DCE will be able to produce or sell up to the maximum volumes called for under the agreement. DCE's ability to produce such volumes of biomethane depends on a number of factors beyond DCE's control, including, but not limited to, the availability and composition of the landfill gas that is collected, successful permitting, the impact of operation of the landfill by the City of Dallas and the reliability of the processing facility's critical equipment. The DCE facility is subject to periods of reduced production or non-production due to upgrades, maintenance, repairs and other factors. For example, as part of an operational upgrade in March 2009, the facility was shut down for approximately one month. More recently, on June 12, 2009, the facility was taken offline for repairs that were completed on July 2, 2009. We anticipate that the facility will incur additional downtime related to replacing the gas driven compression with electric driven compression during 2010. Future operational upgrades or complications in the operations of the facility could require additional shutdowns, and accordingly, DCE's revenues may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly results of operations have not been predictable in the past and have fluctuated significantly and may not be predictable and may fluctuate in the future. Our quarterly results of operations have historically experienced significant fluctuations. Our net losses were approximately $0.9 million, $3.6 million, $1.5 million, $2.9 million, $5.4 million, $3.2 million, $12.1 million, $23.7 million, $6.5 million, $6.4 million, $18.5 million and $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007, September 30, 2007, December 31, 2007, March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008, September 30, 2008, December 31, 2008, March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009, September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009, respectively. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, if our stock price increases or decreases in future periods during which our Series I warrants are 36 Table of Contents outstanding, we may be required to recognize corresponding losses or gains related to the valuation of the Series I warrants that could materially impact our results of operations. If our quarterly results of operations fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers, the addition or loss of large customers, construction cost overruns, downtime at our facilities (including the recent shutdowns in March and June 2009 of DCE's landfill gas processing facility), the amount and timing of operating costs, unanticipated expenses, capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure, changes in the price of natural gas, changes in the prices of CNG and LNG relative to gasoline and diesel, changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors, fluctuation in the value of our outstanding Series I warrants or natural gas futures contracts, the costs related to the acquisition of assets or businesses, regulatory changes, and geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. Investors in our stock should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance as our quarterly revenues and results of operations may vary significantly in the future. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. The future price of our common stock or the offering price of our common stock in future offerings could result in a reduction of the exercise price of our Series I warrants and result in dilution of our common stock. We issued Series I warrants to purchase up to 3,314,394 shares of our common stock in connection with our registered direct offering completed in November 2008. These warrants contain provisions that require an adjustment in the exercise price of the Series I warrants in the event that we price any offering of common stock at a price below the current exercise price, which is $12.68 per share after our follow-on equity offering we completed on July 1, 2009. In addition, on November 3, 2010, the exercise price per share of the Series I warrants could be reduced if the then current market price of our common stock is sufficiently less than the then exercise price for the Series I warrants. In such an instance, the exercise price would reset to 120% of the then current market price of our common stock so long as such resulting price is less than the exercise price. If the Series I warrants are exercised, it would be dilutive to our stockholders by increasing the number of shares of our common stock outstanding, which would reduce our earnings per share. Sales of outstanding shares of our stock into the market in the future could cause the market price of our stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. If our stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. At December 31, 2009, 59,840,151 shares of our common stock were outstanding. The 11,500,000 shares sold in our initial public offering, the 4,419,192 shares of common stock and the 3,314,394 shares of common stock subject to outstanding warrants sold in our registered direct offering that closed on November 3, 2008, and the 9,430,000 shares of our common stock sold in our common stock offering that closed July 1, 2009 are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under federal securities laws unless purchased by our affiliates. Shares held by non-affiliates for more than six months may generally be sold without restriction, other than a current public information requirement, and may be sold freely without any restrictions after one year. All other outstanding shares of common stock may be sold under Rule 144 under the Securities Act, subject to applicable restrictions. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, there were 10,348,188 shares underlying outstanding options and 18,314,394 shares underlying outstanding warrants (including the 3,314,394 Series I warrant shares sold in our registered direct offering which closed on November 3, 2008). All shares subject to outstanding options and warrants are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by 37 Table of Contents the provisions of various option and warrant agreements and Rule 144. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our stock could decline. Further, as of December 31, 2009, 16,539,720 shares of our stock held by our co-founder and board member T. Boone Pickens are subject to a pledge agreement with a bank. Should the bank be forced to sell the shares subject to the pledge, the trading price of our stock could also decline. As previously reported on our Form 8-K filed on September 22, 2009, a number of our directors and executive officers have entered into Rule 10b5-1 Sales Plans with a broker to sell shares of our common stock that may be acquired upon the exercise of stock options. All sales of common stock under the plans will be reported through appropriate filings with the SEC. A significant portion of our stock is beneficially owned by a single stockholder whose interests may differ from yours and who will be able to exert significant influence over our corporate decisions, including a change of control. As of December 31, 2009, Boone Pickens and affiliates (including Madeleine Pickens, his wife) owned in the aggregate 34% of our outstanding shares of common stock and beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 47% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, inclusive of the 15,000,000 shares underlying a warrant held by Mr. Pickens. As a result, Mr. Pickens will be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. Mr. Pickens may have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company, and might ultimately affect the market price of our stock. Conversely, this concentration may facilitate a change in control at a time when you and other investors may prefer not to sell. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have not received written comments from the SEC staff more than 180 days before the end of our 2009 fiscal year. 