ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this prospectus before making a decision to invest in our units. We have not signed a definitive agreement with a target business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and an investor could lose all or part of his investment. Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, there is no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results to date. Therefore, our ability to begin operations is dependent upon obtaining financing through the public offering of our securities. Since we do not have an operating history, there is no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to consummate a business combination. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. The report of the independent registered public accounting firm that audited our financial statements includes a “going concern” explanatory paragraph due to the possibility that we may not consummate a business combination within the required time frame, which will require us to dissolve and liquidate. The audit report in our financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2008, includes an explanatory paragraph that states that due to the possibility that a business combination may not be consummated within the required timeframe, there is “substantial doubt” about our ability to continue as a going concern. We must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of acquisition by October 17, 2008 (i.e., 18 months after the completion of our initial public offering) or by April 17, 2009 (i.e., 24 months after the completion of our initial public offering) if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement has been executed by October 17, 2008). If we are forced to dissolve and/or liquidate before a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders may receive less than $8.00 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. We must consummate a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of acquisition (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount), or $77,600,000, excluding accrued interest not released to us to fund working capital requirements, or execute a letter of intent agreement in principle or definitive agreement by October 17, 2008 and, in any event, our corporate existence will cease on April 17, 2009 if we do not obtain stockholder approval to extend our existence in connection with the approval of a business combination. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time frames and are forced to dissolve and/or liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution may be less than $8.00. Furthermore, there will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless if we dissolve and/or liquidate before the consummation of a business combination. If we are unable to find a suitable target acquisition that would result in a business combination, the funds being held in the trust account may not be returned to investors for quite some time. We may not be able to find a suitable target acquisition which would result in a business combination. In such event, we will not be required to dissolve and liquidate until October 17, 2008, although our corporate existence will cease in any event on April 17, 2009 except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating pursuant for Section 278 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. As a result, in the event we fail to find a suitable target acquisition, the funds being held in the trust account may not be returned to investors for as long as two years plus the time required to effect our dissolution and/or liquidation. If we do not timely consummate a business combination or execute a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement by the October 17, 2008 deadline, we will be required to dissolve, but such dissolution requires the approval of holders of a majority of our outstanding stock in accordance with Delaware law. Without this stockholder approval, we will not be able to dissolve and liquidate until at least after our corporate existence ceases on April 17, 2009. If we do not consummate a business combination or execute a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement by the October 17, 2008 deadline, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that our corporate powers will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and we will not be able to engage in any other business activities. Pursuant to Delaware law, our dissolution also requires the affirmative vote of stockholders owning a majority of our then outstanding common stock. In order to solicit such stockholder approval: (i) our board of directors will cause to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting forth the board of directors’ recommendation that we dissolve; (ii) we would expect that on the date that the board of directors adopts such recommendation, we would file the preliminary proxy statement with the SEC; (iii) if the SEC does not review or notify us that they will review the preliminary proxy statement, then approximately 10 days following the filing of the preliminary proxy statement, we will mail a definitive proxy statement to our stockholders, and approximately 30 days following the date of such mailing we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our dissolution; and (iv) if the SEC does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive their comments approximately 30 days following the filing of the preliminary proxy statement. We will mail a definitive proxy statement to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty), and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our dissolution. -11- In the event that we do not initially obtain approval for our dissolution by stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding common stock, we will continue to take all reasonable actions to obtain such approval, which may include adjourning the meeting from time to time to allow us to obtain the required vote and retaining a proxy solicitation firm to assist us in obtaining such vote. However, we cannot guarantee that our stockholders will approve our dissolution in a timely manner or ever approve our dissolution. If we are not able to obtain approval from a majority of our stockholders, we cannot liquidate until at least April 17, 2009 and we will not be able to distribute funds from our trust account to holders of our common stock sold in the offering until after such date. If the proceeds to us from our initial public offering not held in the trust account together with interest earned on the trust account available to us are insufficient to allow us to operate until at least April 17, 2009, we may not be able to consummate a business combination. We currently believe that the funds outside the trust account available to us from the proceeds of our initial public offering together with up to $1,600,000 of interest earned on the trust account that may be released to us along with anticipated funding from our initial stockholders will be sufficient to allow us to operate until at least April 17, 2009, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure investors that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of these funds to pay due diligence costs in connection with a potential business combination or to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target acquisition. We could also use a portion of these funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target acquisitions from “shopping” around for transactions with others on terms more favorable to such target acquisitions) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into such a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target acquisition and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to any other potential target acquisitions. Investors will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to consummate a business combination with an unidentified target acquisition, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC promptly following consummation of our initial public offering including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies, such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to these rules, including Rule 419, we have a longer period of time to consummate a business combination in certain circumstances than we would if we were subject to such rule. Unlike most other blank check offerings, we allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which certain investors may not agree, and certain investors may not receive the full amount of their original investment upon exercise of their conversion rights. -12- When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our private stockholders with respect to any shares they owned prior to the consummation of our initial public offering) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. We will consummate the initial business combination only if the following two conditions are met: (i) a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination and (ii) public stockholders owning 30% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering do not vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights. Most other blank check companies have a conversion threshold of 20%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their initial business combination. Thus, because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their conversion rights, it will be easier for us to consummate an initial business combination with a target business which certain investors may believe is not suitable for us, and certain investors may not receive the full amount of their original investment upon exercise of their conversion rights. Unlike most other blank check offerings, we allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. The ability of a larger number of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our private stockholders with respect to any shares they owned prior to the consummation of our initial public offering) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata share of the trust account. Unlike most other blank check offerings which have a 20% threshold, we allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. In the event that the acquisition involves the issuance of our stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our stock to make up for a shortfall in funds. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders will be less than the $8.00 per share held in the trust account. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Upon our dissolution, we will be required, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law Sections 280 and 281, to pay or make reasonable provision to pay all claims and obligations of the company. These claims may include contingent or conditional claims and claims of directors and officers entitled to indemnification under our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation. We intend to pay any claim, to the extent sufficient to do so, from our funds not held in the trust account. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our management would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and would only enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver if management believed that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. In addition, creditors may seek to interfere with the distribution process under state or federal creditor and bankruptcy laws. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders. We cannot assure investors that the per-share distribution from the trust account will not be less than $8.00 (of which approximately $0.24 per share is attributable to the deferred underwriters’ discount), plus interest accrued not released to us to fund working capital requirements, due to such claims, or that there will not be delays in addition to those imposed by our duties to comply with Delaware General Corporation Law procedures and federal securities laws and regulations. -13- Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure investors we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least $8.00 per share. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until April 17, 2009. If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection thereto, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after April 17, 2009 and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We cannot assure investors that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such date. Accordingly, we cannot assure investors that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after April 17, 2009, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of our creditors. We cannot assure investors that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. -14- Since we have not yet finalized the target acquisition with which to consummate a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business’ operations. Our stockholders currently have no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of our ultimate target acquisition. Although our management will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target acquisition, we cannot assure investors that they will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure investors that an investment in our units will ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in a target acquisition. Except for the limitation that a target acquisition have a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount) at the time of the acquisition, we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. We may issue shares of our capital stock, including through convertible debt securities, to consummate a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 70,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. Currently there are approximately 35,925,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants) and the 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no current commitment, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to consummate a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce equity interest for investors; • may subordinate the rights of holders of our common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our ability to successfully consummate a business combination and to be successful thereafter will be largely dependent upon the efforts of Gordon A. McMillan, our Chairman, Andrew A. McKay, our Chief Executive Officer, John Anderson, our Chief Financial Officer, and Philip Armstrong, Robert C. Hain, Stephen T. Moore and Robert Penteliuk, our directors. Our ability to successfully consummate a business combination is largely dependent upon the efforts of Gordon A. McMillan, our Chairman, Andrew A. McKay, our Chief Executive Officer, John Anderson, our Chief Financial Officer, and Philip Armstrong, Robert C. Hain, Stephen T. Moore and Robert Penteliuk, our directors, as well as the relationship we have with JovFunds. We have not entered into employment or consultant agreements with Messrs. McMillan, McKay, Anderson, Armstrong, Hain, Moore or Penteliuk, or obtained “key man” life insurance on their lives. The loss of any of Messrs. McMillan’s, McKay’s or Anderson’s services or of those of any of our outside directors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully achieve our business objectives, including seeking a suitable target business with which to consummate a business combination. -15- Our officers and directors allocate only a portion of their business time to our company, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not have and do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. None of our officers and directors are obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If an officer or director is required to devote more substantial amounts of time to his other businesses and affairs, it could limit his ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure investors that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with additional entities that are, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. None of our officers or directors has been or currently is a principal of, or affiliated or associated with, a blank check company. However, our officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with additional entities, including other “blank check” companies which may be engaged in activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties or other contractual obligations. Specifically, Mr. Penteliuk, one of our directors, is a principal of Genuity Capital Markets, a subsidiary of Genuity Financial Group. Genuity Capital Markets is a registered broker dealer which provides financial advisory services to its clients, which may also be appropriate for presentation to us. In addition, Mr. McMillan is the Chairman of the Board of JovFunds Management Inc., a Canadian asset management firm and one of our initial stockholders. Mr. Anderson is Chief Financial Officer of Impax Energy Services Income Trust, Mr. Armstrong is a director of JovFunds and the President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Jovian Capital Corporation, a TSX Venture Exchange-listed company which invests in financial services companies and is the parent company of JovFunds. Mr. Hain is the Chairman of City Financial Investment Company Limited, a London based investment firm primarily focused on providing mutual funds and for individual investors in the United Kingdom, Europe and the Middle East and Mr. Moore is a trustee of CI Financial Income Fund. Accordingly, our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure investors that any of these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Genuity Financial Group and its subsidiaries are under no legal or contractual obligation to identify acquisition opportunities or perform any other services on our behalf and Genuity Financial Group and its subsidiaries may take actions that conflict with our interests. Robert Penteliuk, a member of our board, is a principal of Genuity Capital Markets, a subsidiary of Genuity Financial Group. Because of this relationship, Mr. Penteliuk may become aware of potential acquisition candidates. However, Mr. Penteliuk, Genuity Financial Group and its subsidiaries do not act as financial advisor to us and are under no legal or contractual obligation to perform these or any other services on our behalf. Mr. Penteliuk, Genuity Financial Group and its subsidiaries may present acquisition opportunities to others before they present these opportunities to us. Acquisition candidates brought to our attention through Mr. Penteliuk may include clients of Genuity Financial Group or its subsidiaries and Genuity Financial Group and its subsidiaries may have contractual, fiduciary or other obligations to these clients which may be inconsistent with, or adverse to, our interests and the interests of our stockholders. In addition, nothing precludes Mr. Penteliuk, Genuity Financial Group or its subsidiaries from representing, investing in or participating in other blank check entities or other companies that compete with us for acquisition candidates. Finally, while no such agreement or arrangement is currently in place or contemplated, Genuity Financial Group or its subsidiaries would not be prohibited from earning a fee in connection with our initial business combination which could lead to a conflict of interest for Mr. Penteliuk. Jovian Capital Corporation and its subsidiaries are under no legal or contractual obligation to perform any services on our behalf and they may take actions that conflict with our interests. -16- Philip Armstrong, a member of our board, is the Chief Executive Officer and President and a director of Jovian Capital Corporation. Because of his position with Jovian Capital Corporation, Mr. Armstrong may become aware of potential acquisition candidates that might be appropriate for us. Mr. Armstrong has fiduciary duties to Jovian Capital Corporation which may conflict with our interests. Mr. Armstrong, Jovian Capital Corporation and its subsidiaries may have pre-existing fiduciary and contractual obligations to other parties which may conflict with our interests. For example, in the course of his duties for Jovian Capital Corporation, Mr. Armstrong may identify an acquisition candidate which could be appropriate for us, but he might be required to present that opportunity to Jovian Capital Corporation as a result of his fiduciary obligations to Jovian Capital Corporation and its subsidiaries. In addition, nothing prohibits Mr. Armstrong, Jovian Capital Corporation or its subsidiaries from investing in or participating in other blank check entities or other companies that compete with us for acquisition candidates. Neither Mr. Armstrong nor Jovian Capital Corporation is under any contractual obligation to perform any services on our behalf. If we were to engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships with our existing stockholders, directors or officers, it may raise potential conflicts. If we were to engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships with our existing stockholders, directors or officers, it may raise potential conflicts. In particular, Robert Penteliuk, in his capacity as financial advisor to clients of Genuity Financial Group and its subsidiaries, may present us with acquisition opportunities on behalf of those clients and, although no agreement or arrangement is currently in place or contemplated, Genuity Financial Group and its subsidiaries would not be prohibited from earning a fee in connection with our initial business combination. Also, the completion of a business combination between us and an entity owned by a business in which one of our directors or officers may have an interest could enhance their prospects for future business from such client. For example, because one of our directors is a principal of Genuity Capital Markets, another director is President and Chief Executive Officer of Jovian Capital Corporation and a director of JovFunds, and because our Chairman is Chairman of the Board of JovFunds, each may have a conflict of interest in determining whether to recommend a business combination in which our officers or directors may have an interest. In order to avoid such potential conflicts, we will not enter into a business combination with our officers, directors or private stockholders, or an entity affiliated with any of them. Our current officers and directors may resign upon consummation of a business combination. Upon consummation of a business combination, the role of our officers and directors in the target business cannot presently be fully ascertained. While it is possible that one or more of our officers and directors will remain in senior management or as directors following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. If we acquire a target business in an all cash transaction, it would be more likely that our officers and certain of our directors would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company, following a business combination, it may be less likely that our officers or directors would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. If, as a condition to a potential business combination, our officers negotiate to be retained after the consummation of the business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. The ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, we will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain of our officers and directors remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company after the consummation of the business combination. Although we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure investors that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. The shares of common stock and warrants owned by our private stockholders, officers and directors will not participate in liquidation distributions, and a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular target acquisition is appropriate for a business combination. -17- TFC Holdings Ltd., an entity owned 97% by Parkwood Holdings Ltd. and 3% by our outside directors, Parkwood Holdings Ltd., and our officers and directors beneficially own, in the aggregate, 3,125,000 shares of our common stock and 4,700,000 warrants but have waived their right to receive distributions (other than with respect to units they purchased in our initial public offering or common stock or warrants they purchase in the aftermarket) upon our dissolution and liquidation prior to a business combination. These shares and warrants will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. In addition, the 3,125,000 shares of common stock and 4,700,000 warrants are held in escrow and may not be transferred until the first anniversary of the consummation of a business combination and ninety days after consummation of a business combination, respectively. The personal and financial interests of our private stockholders, officers and directors, including their interest in releasing these transfer restrictions and in releasing their common stock and warrants from escrow may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, the discretion of our private stockholders, officers and directors in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our public stockholders’ best interest. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and our investors may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Initially, we may only be able to consummate one business combination, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Of the proceeds from our initial public offering and the private placement of warrants, $100,000,000 is held in the trust account and may be used by us to consummate a business combination. Our business combination must be with a business having a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount) at the time of such acquisition. We have no limitation on our ability to raise additional funds through the sale of securities or the incurrence of indebtedness that would enable us to consummate a business combination with an operating business having a fair market value in excess of 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount) at the time of such an acquisition. We have not entered into any such fundraising arrangement and have no current intention of doing so. Consequently, initially it is possible that we will have the ability to consummate only a single business combination. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including insufficient financing or the difficulties involved in consummating the contemporaneous acquisition of more than one operating company, as is required by our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Therefore, it is possible that we will have the ability to consummate a business combination with only a single operating business, which may have only a limited number of products or services. The resulting lack of diversification may: -18- • result in our dependency upon the performance of a single or small number of operating businesses; • result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services; and • subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to consummate several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry so as to diversify risks and offset losses. Further, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of the initial target business or businesses we acquire. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate a business combination during the prescribed time period. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies and operating businesses competing for the types of businesses that we intend to primarily focus on. Many of these individuals and entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and consummating, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of companies. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge, than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous target businesses that we could potentially acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target businesses that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Also, our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we are unable to consummate an initial business combination within the prescribed time period, we will be forced to dissolve and/or liquidate. We depend on the proceeds of our initial public offering not placed in the trust account and interest on the trust account available to us to fund our search for a target business or businesses and to consummate our initial business combination. We depend on the $100,000 of proceeds of our initial public offering not placed in the trust account and up to $1,600,000 of interest earned on the trust account and released to us to provide us with working capital that we may need to identify one or more target businesses and to consummate our initial business combination. This may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to obtain additional funds from our initial stockholders or another source to continue operations. Our initial stockholders are responsible for any expenses in excess of $1,700,000 that may be incurred in connection with the pursuit of a business combination. Such amounts will be reimbursed upon consummation of a business combination. Our private stockholders, including our directors and officers, may vote shares of common stock they acquired in or following our initial public offering on a proposed business combination any way they choose. -19- In connection with the stockholder vote required for a business combination, all of our private stockholders, including our directors, have agreed to vote the shares of common stock owned by them immediately before our initial public offering in accordance with the majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders. Any common stock acquired by private stockholders in the offering or the aftermarket will be considered part of the holdings of the public stockholders. These private stockholders will have the same rights as other public stockholders with respect to such shares, including voting and conversion rights in connection with a potential business combination. Accordingly, they may vote such shares on a proposed business combination any way they choose. Our private stockholders, including our directors and officers, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our private stockholders (including our directors and officers), collectively own approximately 20.0% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these stockholders will have the ability to influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote, for example, the election of directors. Our staggered board may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. As a result, at any annual meeting only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election. Since our “staggered board” would prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our board of directors at any annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to consummate a business combination. In connection with our initial public offering, we issued warrants to purchase up to 12,500,000 shares of common stock. In addition, our initial stockholders and their affiliates own 4,700,000 warrants purchased in a private placement immediately prior to consummation of our initial public offering. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to consummate a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target acquisition. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to consummate the business combination. Therefore, our warrants may make it more difficult to consummate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target acquisition. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, our investors may experience dilution to their holdings. If our private stockholders exercise their registration rights, such exercise may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of the registration rights may make it more difficult to consummate a business combination. Our private stockholders are entitled to make a demand that we register the resale of their shares of common stock at any time commencing three months prior to the date on which their shares are released from escrow. If our private stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock, there will be an additional 3,125,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market (as well as up to 4,700,000 additional shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the 4,700,000 warrants). The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make it more difficult to consummate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target acquisition, as the stockholders of the target acquisition may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of the registration rights may have on the trading market for our common stock. -20- If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to consummate a business combination, or we may be required to incur additional expenses if we are unable to dissolve after the expiration of the allotted time periods. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to consummate a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. To this end, the proceeds held in the trust account may be invested by the trust agent only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 with a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We may or may not obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party as to the fair market value of a target acquisition or that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our stockholders. Pursuant to our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation which we will file with the Delaware Secretary of State prior to consummation of the offering, our board of directors is not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that either the target acquisition we select has a fair market value in excess of 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount) or that the price we are paying is fair to stockholders unless either (i) the board of directors is not able to independently determine that the target acquisition has a sufficient fair market value, or (ii) a conflict of interest exists with respect to the transaction. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment of our board of directors regarding the valuation of the target acquisition. There may be tax consequences associated with our acquisition, holding and disposition of target companies and assets. We may incur significant taxes in connection with effecting acquisitions; holding, receiving payments from, and operating target companies and assets; and disposing of target companies and assets. There is no guarantee that a market for our securities will be maintained, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. Investors have access to information from only a relatively short period of our prior market history. The price of our securities may vary significantly due to reports of operating losses, one or more potential business combinations, the filing of periodic reports with the SEC and general market or economic conditions. Furthermore, an active trading market for our securities may not be sustained. Our investors may be unable to sell their securities unless a market can be sustained. -21- The American Stock Exchange may require us to submit a new listing application, subject to the initial listing requirements, in connection with a business combination, or may delist our securities from trading on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to effect transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot guarantee that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future. In addition, in connection with a business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange in the future, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which would require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · more limited amount of news and analyst coverage for us; · decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and · decreased ability of our security holders to sell their securities in certain states. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. We may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units (including the warrants sold in the private placement) at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to be practically worthless. No warrant will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants comprising the units to be sold in the offering is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, the warrants may have no value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the warrants may expire worthless. -22- Because we may acquire a company located outside of the United States, we may be subject to various risks of the foreign jurisdiction in which we ultimately operate. If we acquire a company that has sales or operations outside the United States, we could be exposed to risks that negatively impact our future sales or profitability following a business combination, including: • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • government instability; • different or inadequate banking systems; • currency fluctuations; • foreign exchange controls; • restrictions on the repatriation of profits or payment of dividends; or • nationalization or expropriation of property. We may be subject to taxation in Canada, which would increase our operating expenses for which we have limited funds available. By virtue of maintaining an office in Canada, we may be subject to taxation in Canada, including Canadian income taxation. As a result, our aggregate tax liabilities in any particular taxation year may exceed the tax liabilities that would have arisen if we did not have an office or other permanent establishment in Canada. Canadian taxation legislation also differs in many material respects from tax legislation currently enacted in the United States, which may give rise to additional tax liabilities. These taxes may increase our operating expenses and we have limited funds available outside the trust account. Because any target business with which we attempt to complete a business combination will be required to provide our stockholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with and reconciled to United States generally accepted accounting principles, the pool of prospective target businesses may be limited. In accordance with the requirements of United States federal securities laws, in order to seek stockholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards. To the extent that a proposed target business does not have financial statements which have been prepared with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. GAAP, and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses. We are located outside the United States and, if we acquire one or more businesses outside of the United States, our assets would be located and a number of our directors and officers would be resident outside the United States, which may hinder service of process or make it impossible, difficult or more costly for an investor to enforce a judgment granted by a United States court against us or such persons. We are incorporated under the laws of Delaware, but our head office is located and a number of our directors and officers may be resident in Canada. If we acquire one or more businesses located outside of the United States, a number of our directors and officers may be resident in Canada and a substantial portion of their assets and substantially all of our assets will be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for an investor to effect service of process within the United States upon the directors and officers who are not residents of the United States. It may also be difficult for an investor to enforce judgments in the courts of the United States, including those based upon the civil liability under United States federal securities laws, against us where damages exceed the realizable value of U.S.- based assets or against directors and officers who are not residents of the United States. Therefore, judgments against us or such persons may have to be enforced in one or more foreign jurisdictions and may be subject to additional defenses or may result in additional costs to the party seeking to enforce a judgment as a result. -23- Claims brought in foreign courts, where appropriate, may be subject to defenses not available in actions in courts of the United States or may result in additional costs or different damages being awarded to the party bringing the claim. If we acquire one or more foreign businesses, we may incur additional costs due to currency exchange and we could experience gains or losses solely on changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. Dollar and the foreign currency. If we make an acquisition of a foreign business using foreign currency, fluctuation in the exchange rates could affect the cost of acquisition because our cash assets are in U.S. Dollars. For example, an increase in the value of the foreign currency relative to the U.S. Dollar would result in our paying a higher U.S. Dollar purchase price because we would be required to convert more U.S. Dollars to buy the necessary amount of foreign currency to fund the purchase price. If we acquire one or more foreign businesses with our cash assets, our assets, liabilities and earnings would be denominated in foreign currency. As a result, our earnings may be affected favorably or unfavorably by changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the foreign currency. For example, an increase in the value of the foreign currency relative to the U.S. Dollar would result in higher profits when those profits are converted into U.S. Dollars. Conversely, a decrease in the value of the foreign currency relative to the U.S. Dollar would result in lower profits when those profits are converted into U.S. Dollars. Similarly, the overall value of our assets and any foreign currency liabilities would fluctuate up or down with the value of the foreign currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates could adversely affect the value of our shares. We may also incur transaction costs associated with exchanging foreign currency into U.S. Dollars. We may manage the currency risks by hedging through forward currency contracts, currency futures, currency swap agreements or currency options, but there is no assurance that we will employ such measures or, if employed, they will effectively manage currency risk. Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include a staggered board of directors and the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. If we incur indebtedness in connection with consummating a business combination we will be exposed to additional risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. We may borrow funds in connection with consummation a business combination. Leverage involves risks and special considerations of stockholders, including: · we will be exposed to increased risk of loss if we incur debt because a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on our returns and therefore the value of our common stock than if we did not use leverage; · it is likely that such debt will be governed by an instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility; and · we, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of leverage, including issuance and servicing costs. Risks Related to the Shipping Industry If charter rates fluctuate and the shipping industry continues to undergo cyclical turns, it may reduce our profitability and operations. The shipping business, including the dry market, has been cyclical in varying degrees, experiencing fluctuations in charter rates, profitability and, consequently, vessel values. A significant contraction in demand for imported commodities, such as iron ore or coal, as a result of economic downturns or changes in government policies in certain regional markets could depress vessel freight rates, as well as the general demand for vessels. For instance, a downturn in the economy of countries such as China, which has experienced substantial global economic growth during the past few years, could negatively affect the shipping industry. The demand for vessels is also greatly affected by, among other factors, the demand for consumer goods, commodities and bagged and finished products, as well as commodity prices, environmental concerns and competition. The supply of shipping capacity is also a function of the delivery of new vessels and the number of older vessels scrapped, in lay-up, converted to other uses, reactivated or removed from active service. Supply may also be affected by maritime transportation and other types of governmental regulation, including that of international authorities. These and other factors may cause a decrease in the demand for the services we may ultimately provide or the value of the vessels we may own and operate, thereby limiting our ability to successfully operate any prospective target business with which we may ultimately complete a business combination. -24- The shipping industry is subject to seasonal fluctuations in demand and, therefore, may cause volatility in our operating results. The shipping industry has historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The tanker and dry bulk carrier markets are typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of oil, coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, revenues are typically weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, typically stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. Our operating results, therefore, may be subject to seasonal fluctuations. If we experienced a catastrophic loss and our insurance is not adequate to cover such loss, it could lower our profitability and be detrimental to operations. The ownership and operation of vessels in international trade is affected by a number of risks, including mechanical failure, personal injury, vessel and cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political conditions in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes, adverse weather conditions and catastrophic marine disaster, including environmental accidents and collisions. All of these risks could result in liability, loss of revenues, increased costs and loss of reputation. We intend to maintain insurance, consistent with industry standards, against these risks on any vessels and other business assets we may acquire upon completion of a business combination. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately insure against all risks, that any particular claim will be paid out of our insurance, or that we will be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Our insurers will also require us to pay certain deductible amounts, before they will pay claims, and insurance policies may contain limitations and exclusions, which, although we believe will be standard for the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs and lower our profitability. Additionally, any increase in environmental and other regulations may also result in increased costs for, or the lack of availability of, insurance against the risks of environmental damage, pollution and other claims for damages that may be asserted against us. Our inability to obtain insurance sufficient to cover potential claims or the failure of insurers to pay any significant claims, could lower our profitability and be detrimental to our operations. We may incur significant costs in complying with environmental, safety and other governmental regulations, and our failure to comply with these regulations could result in the imposition of penalties, fines and restrictions on our operations. The operation of vessels is subject to extensive and changing environmental protection, safety and other federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and treaties, compliance with which may entail significant expense, including expenses for ship modifications and changes in operating procedures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all laws, rules, regulations and treaties following a business combination. If we are unable to adhere to these requirements, it could result in the imposition of penalties and fines against us, and could also result in the imposition of restrictions on our business and operations. Furthermore, the costs of compliance also could lower our profitability and be detrimental to our operations. The ownership and operation of vessels in international trade is susceptible to world events, which could be detrimental to our financial condition and operating performance. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Persian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of theses occurrences could impair our operating results. -25- If a business combination involves the ownership of vessels, such vessels could be arrested by maritime claimants, which could result in the interruption of business and decrease revenue and lower profitability. Crew members, tort claimants, claimants for breach of certain maritime contracts, vessel mortgagees, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other persons may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages, and in many circumstances a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by ‘‘arresting’’ a vessel through court processes. Additionally, in certain jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the ‘‘sister ship’’ theory of liability, a claimant may arrest not only the vessel with respect to which the claimant’s lien has arisen, but also any ‘‘associated’’ vessel owned or controlled by the legal or beneficial owner of that vessel. If any vessel ultimately owned and operated by us is ‘‘arrested,’’ this could result in a material loss of revenues, or require us to pay substantial amounts to have the ‘‘arrest’’ lifted. Governments could requisition vessels of a target company during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition a company’s vessels for title or hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although a target company would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of any of its vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. We may become subject to United States Federal income taxation on our United States source shipping income, which would reduce our net income and impair our cash flow. Due to the nature of the shipping industry, we may complete a business combination with a target business outside of the United States, in which case we would seek to qualify under Section 883 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for an exemption from U.S. federal income tax on substantially all of our shipping income. This exemption may not be available, or may subsequently be lost, if 50% or more of our stock is owned, for more than half the number of days during the taxable year, by persons in the United States. We can give no assurance that the ownership of our stock will permit us to qualify for the Section 883 exemption. If we do not qualify for an exemption pursuant to Section 883, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax, likely imposed on a gross basis at 4%, on our United States source shipping income, which constitutes not more than 50% of our gross shipping income. In such case, we may seek to elect to be taxed under what is in essence an alternative tonnage tax created by the American Job Creation Act of 2004, which would likely provide for a substantially reduced tax to the extent it applies. In such a case, our net income and cash flow will be reduced by the amount of such tax. If a target company has or obtains a vessel that is of second-hand or older nature, it could increase our costs and decrease our profitability. We believe that competition for employment of second-hand vessels may be intense. Additionally, second-hand vessels may carry no warranties from sellers with respect to their condition as compared to warranties from shipyards available for newly-constructed vessels, and may be subject to problems created by the use of their original owners. If we purchase any second-hand vessels, we may incur additional expenditures as a result of these risks, which may reduce our profitability. -26- While it will be our intention if we acquire a target business in this area to sell or retire our vessels before they are considered older vessels, under shipping standards, in the rare case where we continue to own and operate a vessel for a longer period, we could be faced with the additional expenditures necessary to maintain a vessel in good operating condition as the age of a vessel increases. Moreover, port-state authorities in certain jurisdictions may demand that repairs be made to this type of vessel before allowing it to berth at or depart a particular port, even though that vessel may be in class and in compliance with all relevant international maritime conventions. Should any of these types of problems or changes develop, income may be lost if a vessel goes off-hire and additional unforeseen and unbudgeted expenses may be incurred. If we choose to maintain any vessels past the age that we have planned, we cannot assure you that market conditions will justify expenditures with respect to any of the foregoing or enable us to operate these vessels profitably. Because certain financial information will be required to be provided to our shareholders in connection with a proposed business combination, prospective target businesses may be limited. In order to seek shareholder approval of a business combination with an operating business in the shipping industry, the proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with the standards of the United States Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. Some of the businesses in the shipping industry may not keep financial statements in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. To the extent that the required financial statements or information cannot be prepared or obtained, we will not be able to complete a business combination with such entities. Accordingly, these financial information requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses or vessels which we may acquire. -27- ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 