Risk Factors — Risks Relating to Regulation — We may be adversely affected by the new financial reform legislation in the United States and pending reforms in Europe.” On September 30, 2010, the SEC and CFTC issued a joint report presenting their findings regarding the market events of May 6, 2010, commonly referred to as the “flash crash”. Although we do not anticipate that the joint report will lead to the adoption of significant regulatory changes that adversely affect our business, the risk of such changes is heightened as a result of the breadth of the review by the SEC and CFTC, the impact of the May 6th event on investors and the marketplace, and the fact that certain aspects of our business were highlighted in the joint report. Furthermore, any regulatory changes in response to the flash crash and joint report may impact certain of our customers’ business models and practices, in particular high frequency trading, which may in turn affect our business. 14 Table of Contents NYSE Regulation Our U.S. securities exchanges are charged with oversight of the financial and operational status and sales-practice conduct of members and their employees, and have responsibility for regulatory review of their trading activities on those exchanges. In addition, our U.S. securities exchanges are responsible for enforcing compliance with their respective financial and corporate governance standards by listed companies. Financial, operational and sales practice oversight over the members of our U.S. securities exchanges is generally conducted by FINRA. In addition, as of June 14, 2010, FINRA assumed certain additional regulatory functions for these exchanges pursuant to an agreement. As a result, FINRA performs the market surveillance and enforcement functions for our U.S. securities exchanges, although our U.S. securities exchanges retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for the regulatory functions performed by FINRA under such agreement. NYSE Regulation, Inc., an indirect not-for-profit subsidiary of NYSE Euronext, oversees FINRA’s performance of these services, enforces listed company compliance with applicable standards, and oversees regulatory policy determinations, rule interpretation and regulation related rule development. NYSE Regulation, employing approximately 50 people as of December 31, 2010, consists of the following functional groups: • Listed Company Compliance; • Regulatory Policy and Management; • StockWatch; and • Regulation Administration. Listed Company Compliance. Our U.S. securities exchanges require their listed companies to meet their respective original listing criteria at listing, and to thereafter maintain compliance with their respective continued listing standards. Listed Company Compliance monitors and enforces compliance with these standards. Regulatory Policy and Management. Regulatory Policy and Management has primary responsibility for overseeing the regulation related rule development and interpretation functions for our U.S. securities exchanges and overseeing FINRA’s performance of its contractual obligations to our U.S. securities exchanges. StockWatch. StockWatch conducts limited real-time monitoring of trading activity on the facilities of our U.S. securities exchanges. We refer suspicious activity to FINRA for further investigation. In addition, our U.S. securities exchanges that maintain options trading markets have entered into a joint agreement with the other U.S. options exchanges for conducting options insider trading surveillances. Our U.S. securities exchanges continue to have regulatory responsibility for these functions, which are monitored by NYSE Regulation. Our U.S. securities exchanges have also entered into several agreements with FINRA and other U.S. securities exchanges pursuant to Rule 17d-2 under the Exchange Act, which have been approved by the SEC and pursuant to which our U.S. securities exchanges are relieved of regulatory responsibility with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. Structure, Organization and Governance of NYSE Regulation. We have an agreement with NYSE Regulation to provide it adequate funding to allow it to perform or oversee, as applicable, the regulatory functions of our U.S. securities exchanges. NYSE Regulation can levy fines on members, on behalf of our U.S. securities exchanges, as part of disciplinary action. Income from fines is used only to fund non-compensation expenses of NYSE Regulation. The use of fine income by NYSE Regulation is subject to specific review and approval by the NYSE Regulation board of directors. No regulatory fees, fines or penalties collected by NYSE Regulation may be distributed to any entity other than NYSE Regulation. NYSE Regulation incorporates several structural and governance features designed to ensure its independence, given our status as a for-profit and listed company. NYSE Regulation is a separately incorporated, not-for-profit entity. Each director of NYSE Regulation (other than its chief executive officer) must be independent under the independence policy of the NYSE Euronext board of directors, and a majority of the members of the NYSE Regulation board of directors and its compensation committee and nominating and governance committee must be persons who are not directors of NYSE Euronext. 15 Table of Contents To reduce the conflicts that can arise from “self listing,” NYSE Regulation is responsible for all listing compliance decisions with respect to NYSE Euronext’s listing on the NYSE. In addition, NYSE Regulation prepares for its board of directors quarterly reports summarizing its monitoring of NYSE Euronext’s compliance with NYSE listing standards, and its monitoring of the trading of NYSE Euronext’s common stock. A copy of these reports must be forwarded to the SEC. In addition, NYSE rules require an annual review by an independent accounting firm to ensure that NYSE Euronext is in compliance with the listing requirements, and a copy of this report must be forwarded to the SEC. NYSE Regulation has adopted structural and governance standards in compliance with applicable U.S. federal securities laws, and in particular, Section 6 of the Exchange Act with respect to fair representation of members. Regulatory Auditor NYSE In April 2005, the SEC instituted and simultaneously settled an administrative proceeding against the NYSE. The SEC’s action related to detection and prevention of activities of specialists who engaged in unlawful proprietary trading on the floor of the NYSE. As part of the settlement, the NYSE agreed to comply with certain undertakings, one of which was to retain a third-party regulatory auditor to conduct, every two years through 2011, a comprehensive regulatory audit of NYSE Regulation’s surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs applicable to specialists and other floor members. The SEC order relating to the settlement provides that the regulatory auditor is required to report the auditor’s conclusions to the NYSE board and to the SEC, and those conclusions are to be included in NYSE’s annual report. Accordingly, the conclusions of the regulatory auditor, James H. Cheek, III and Bass, Berry & Sims PLC, as reported to NYSE on February 25, 2011, are as follows: Pursuant to our retention as contemplated in that certain Order of the [SEC] dated April 12, 2005 (the “2005 Order”), we have conducted a comprehensive regulatory audit (the “Regulatory Audit”) of the surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs of [NYSE Regulation] applicable to designated market makers, member firm floor brokers, independent floor brokers, registered competitive market makers and competitive traders (collectively, “Floor Members”) for the two years ended December 31, 2010 (the “Audit Period”). Based on our audit procedures and our consideration of the factors and assessments set forth in our confidential regulatory audit report (the “Audit Report”) to the Boards of Directors of NYSE Euronext and NYSE Regulation, the Director of the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations (“OCIE”) and the Director of the Division of Trading and Markets (“Trading and Markets”) and such other matters as we have deemed appropriate, we have concluded that during the Audit Period, notwithstanding certain weaknesses that we have identified, including those set forth in the Audit Report: (1) NYSE Regulation’s policies and procedures were reasonably designed and effective to detect and deter violations of all applicable federal securities laws and [NYSE] rules relating to trading by Floor Members; (2) NYSE Regulation was (i) in compliance with the above-referenced policies and procedures; and (ii) in compliance with the outstanding written recommendations made by OCIE or Trading and Markets relating to compliance with rules, or surveillance for rule violations, with respect to trading by Floor Members; and (3) the [NYSE] was in compliance with any outstanding undertakings contained in the 2005 Order and that certain Order of the SEC dated June 29, 1999 issued against the [NYSE]. Because of its inherent limitations, no regulatory program or audit can provide absolute assurance that violations of federal securities laws and Exchange rules relating to trading by Floor Members will not occur or go undetected. Also, the continued reasonableness of design and effectiveness of NYSE Regulation’s policies and procedures in future periods is subject to the risk that such policies and procedures may become inadequate or ineffective because of changes in business or regulatory conditions or that the degree of compliance with such policies and procedures may deteriorate. 16 Table of Contents American Stock Exchange Prior to our acquisition of the American Stock Exchange (“Amex,” now NYSE Amex), Amex was subject to an SEC investigation into its various business and related regulatory oversight functions. In March 2007, the SEC approved Amex’s settlement offer, which included, among other things, a commitment to engage a third-party auditor to conduct three audits to determine whether Amex’s regulatory policies and procedures applicable to all Floor Members are reasonably designed and effective to ensure compliance with, and to deter violations of, the federal securities laws and Amex rules related to trading. As a result of the relocation of NYSE Amex trading to NYSE Euronext trading systems and facilities in 2008 and 2009 following our acquisition of Amex, for the relevant audit period, Daylight Forensic & Advisory LLC (“Daylight”) performed a third-party audit of Amex’s regulatory policies and procedures for the period during which Amex operated on its legacy trading systems and facilities, while James H. Cheek, III and Bass, Berry & Sims PLC performed a third-party audit of Amex’s regulatory policies and procedures for the period during which NYSE Amex operated on the NYSE Euronext trading systems and facilities. The SEC order relating to the settlement provides that the auditor is required to report its opinion to Amex’s Board of Governors and to the SEC, and the audit opinion is to be included in Amex’s annual report. As Amex did not have an annual report at or after that date, the conclusion of each regulatory auditor is included herein. The conclusion provided in Daylight’s audit report dated April 22, 2010 is as follows: Daylight’s audit found that the Amex’s surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs relating to trading applicable to all Floor Members during the [legacy] period was well controlled, given the challenges presented by staffing and carryover IT issues. Pursuant to the [order of the SEC Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions, a Censure and a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Sections 19(h)(1) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Release No. 55507/March 22, 2007, File No. 3-12594 (the “2007 SEC Order”)] Daylight made the following determinations: * * * The Amex’s trading policies and procedures are reasonably designed and effective to ensure compliance with and to detect and deter violations of federal securities laws and the Amex’s trading rules. The audit found no issues with the design of the program’s policies and procedures. * * * The Amex complied with its policies and procedures during the Stub period. The Amex had made significant improvements in complying with their policies and procedures since the events that gave rise to the 2007 SEC Order, and this audit found that the Amex regulatory program maintained its high standard during the Stub period. The audit revealed 17 observations related to the surveillance program, six observations concerning the examination program and two observations concerning the enforcement program, related to compliance with the policies and procedures. These issues did not significantly impair the Amex’s compliance with their policies and procedures. * * * The Amex was in compliance with . . . commitments . . . to OCIE and the Division of [Trading and Markets] relating to compliance with trading rules on surveillance for trading rule violations. * * * The Amex was in compliance with the commitments identified in the 2007 SEC Order. * * * The Amex was in compliance with commitments contained in section IV.B.f. of the [order issued by the SEC on September 11, 2000]. 17 Table of Contents The James H. Cheek, III and Bass, Berry & Sims PLC opinion dated June 16, 2010 is as follows: Pursuant to our retention by NYSE Amex LLC (“Amex”) and NYSE Euronext, as contemplated in the Order of the [SEC], dated March 22, 2007 (the “2007 Order”), we have conducted a comprehensive audit of the Amex’s surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs relating to trading applicable to all designated market makers and floor brokers, in the case of Amex equities trading, and specialists, directed market makers, market makers and floor brokers, in the case of Amex options trading (collectively, “Floor Members”), for the period beginning with the relocation of Amex trading from its legacy trading system to NYSE Euronext systems and facilities (such relocation occurred on December 1, 2008, in the case of Amex equities, and March 2, 2009, in the case of Amex options) and ending April 28, 2010 (the “Audit Period”). Based on our audit procedures and our consideration of the factors and assessments set forth in our confidential regulatory audit report (the “Audit Report”) to the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext, the Director of the [OCIE] and the Director of the Division of Trading and Markets (“Trading and Markets”) and such other matters as we have deemed appropriate, we have concluded that during the Audit Period, notwithstanding certain weaknesses that we have identified, including those set forth in the Audit Report: (1) the Amex’s policies and procedures were reasonably designed and effective to ensure compliance with, and to detect and deter violations of, the federal securities laws and the Amex’s rules relating to trading by Floor Members; and (2) the Amex was in compliance with (i) the above-referenced policies and procedures; (ii) any outstanding commitments made by the Amex in relation to the written recommendations made by OCIE or Trading and Markets relating to compliance with trading rules or surveillance for trading rule violations; and (iii) any undertakings contained in the 2007 Order or Section IV.B.f. of the Order of the [SEC] dated September 11, 2000. Because of its inherent limitations, no regulatory program or audit can provide absolute assurance that violations of federal securities laws and Amex rules relating to trading by Floor Members will not occur or go undetected. Also, the continued reasonableness of design and effectiveness of the Amex’s policies and procedures in future periods is subject to the risk that such policies and procedures may become inadequate or ineffective because of changes in business or regulatory conditions or that the degree of compliance with such policies and procedures may deteriorate. Europe Euronext operates exchanges in five European countries. Each of the Euronext exchanges and Euronext N.V. holds an exchange license granted by the relevant national exchange regulatory authority and operates under its supervision. Each market operator is also subject to national laws and regulations in its jurisdiction in addition to the requirements imposed by the national exchange authority and, in some cases, the central bank and/or the finance ministry in the relevant European country. Regulation of Euronext and its constituent markets is conducted in a coordinated fashion by the respective national regulatory authorities pursuant to a memorandum of understanding (“MOU”) relating to the regulated markets. Representatives of Euronext’s regulatory authorities meet in working groups on a regular basis to coordinate their actions in areas of common interest and agree upon measures to promote harmonization of their respective national regulatory requirements. The integration of Euronext’s trading platforms has been fostered and accompanied by regulatory harmonization. A single rulebook governs trading on Euronext’s cash and derivatives markets, which contains a set of harmonized rules and a set of exchange-specific rules. Regulation of Euronext The regulatory framework in which Euronext operates is substantially influenced and partly governed by European directives. In November 2007, the MiFID went into effect. MiFID is one of the key directives of the Financial Services Action Plan (“FSAP”), which was adopted by the EU in 1999 in order to create a single market for financial services by harmonizing the member states’ rules on securities, banking, insurance, mortgages, pensions and all other financial transactions. The progressive implementation by European member states of the FSAP directives has enabled and increased the degree of harmonization of the regulatory regime for financial services, offering, listing, trading and market abuse. Regulators in Europe are currently reviewing issues related to 18 Table of Contents market structure and financial regulation. In addition, there is a scheduled MiFID review in the first quarter of 2011, which we expect will culminate in formal legislative proposals in the second quarter of 2011. At the time that Euronext was formed in 2000, Euronext N.V. received from the Dutch authorities a joint exchange license together with Euronext Amsterdam to operate regulated markets, which means that it is also subject to the regulation and supervision of the Dutch Minister of Finance and the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (Autoriteit Financiële Markten, or “AFM”). Powers of the Dutch Minister of Finance and the AFM include a veto or approval rights over (i) the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 10% of the shares in a market operator, (ii) the appointment of the policy makers of the market operators, (iii) any mergers, cross-shareholdings and joint ventures and (iv) any actions that may affect the proper operation of the Dutch exchanges. National Regulation Euronext’s European market operators hold licenses for operating the following EU regulated markets: • Euronext Amsterdam operates two regulated markets: one stock market (Euronext Amsterdam) and one derivatives market (Euronext Amsterdam Derivatives Market, i.e., the Amsterdam market of NYSE Liffe); • Euronext Brussels operates two regulated markets: one stock market (Euronext Brussels) and one derivatives market (Euronext Brussels Derivatives Market, i.e., the Brussels market of NYSE Liffe); • Euronext Lisbon operates two regulated markets: one stock market (Euronext Lisbon) and one derivatives market (Euronext Lisbon Futures and Options Market, i.e., the Lisbon market of NYSE Liffe); • Euronext Paris operates three regulated markets: one stock market (Euronext Paris) and two derivatives markets (MONEP and MATIF, i.e., the Paris markets of NYSE Liffe); and • LIFFE Administration and Management operates two regulated markets, a derivatives market (the London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange, i.e., the London market of NYSE Liffe) and NYSE Euronext London. Through the NYSE Liffe Clearing transaction, the London market of NYSE Liffe became the central counterparty to trades on its market. Each market operator also operates a number of markets that do not fall within the EU definition of “regulated markets.” Each market operator is subject to national laws and regulations pursuant to its market operator status. Euronext Amsterdam Operation of a regulated market in the Netherlands requires a license from the Dutch Minister of Finance, which may amend or revoke the license at any time. AFM, together with De Nederlandsche Bank, acts as the regulatory authority for members of Euronext Amsterdam, supervises the primary and secondary markets, ensures compliance with market rules and monitors clearing and settlement operations. See also “— Regulation of Euronext” above. Euronext Brussels Euronext Brussels is governed by, and recognized as a market undertaking under, the Belgian Act of August 2, 2002. Pursuant to the Act, the Commission Bancaire, Financière et des Assurances (“CBFA”) is responsible for disciplinary powers against members and issuers, control of sensitive information, supervision of markets, and investigative powers. Euronext Brussels is responsible for the organization of the markets and the admission, suspension and exclusion of members, and has been appointed by law as a “competent authority” within the meaning of the Listing Directive. Euronext Lisbon Euronext Lisbon is governed by the Portuguese Decree of Law no. 357-C/2007, which, along with the Portuguese Securities Code and regulations of the Comissão do Mercado de Valores Mobilários (“CMVM”), govern the regime for regulated and non-regulated markets, market operators and all companies with related activities in Portugal. The creation of regulated market companies requires prior authorization in the form of a decree from the 19 Table of Contents Portuguese Minister of Finance, following consultation with the CMVM. The CMVM is an independent public authority that monitors markets and market participants, public offerings and collective investment undertakings. Euronext Paris Euronext Paris is subject to the French Monetary and Financial Code, which authorizes the French Minister of Finance to confer and revoke regulated market status upon the recommendation of the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (“AMF”) and following an opinion from the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel (“ACP”). Euronext Paris is also subject to French banking legislation and regulations as a specialized financial institution, which means that it is subject to supervision by the ACP and the Commission Bancaire. Euronext, as the indirect parent of Euronext Paris for purposes of banking regulations, is also subject to certain reporting and statutory requirements, including those relating to minimum solvency and other ratios and minimum equity requirements. LIFFE Administration and Management LIFFE Administration and Management (the London market of NYSE Liffe) administers the markets for financial and commodity derivatives in London and also administers and operates NYSE Euronext London, both of which are overseen by the U.K. Financial Services Authority (“FSA”). In the United Kingdom, financial services legislation comes under the jurisdiction of Her Majesty’s Treasury, while responsibility for overseeing the conduct of regulated activity rests with the FSA. LIFFE Administration and Management is designated as a self-clearing recognized investment exchange pursuant to the U.K. Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Other UK Regulated Firms LIFFE Services Ltd. is regulated by the FSA as a service company. Secfinex Ltd, whose principal activity is the operation of an electronic trading facility for securities borrowing and lending, is regulated by the FSA as an authorized person. Smartpool Limited is an MTF regulated by the FSA. Listing and Financial Disclosure The rules regarding public offerings of financial instruments and prospectuses as well as ongoing (ad hoc and periodic) disclosure requirements for listed companies are set forth in the Prospectus Directive and Transparency Directive, which have been implemented in Euronext countries by each legislative body and regulator. Companies seeking to list and trade their securities on a Euronext market must comply with the harmonized listing requirements of Rulebook I and, following admission, with the ongoing disclosure requirements set forth by the competent authority of their home member state. Companies may apply for admission to listing in one or more jurisdictions in which a Euronext market is located. Since the introduction of the Single Order Book, the liquidity of the multi-listed companies in Amsterdam, Brussels and Paris is concentrated as each such company is given a single security code regardless of where it is listed. However, a single point of entry for issuers allows investors from other Euronext countries to have access to the order book for trading purposes. The settlement processes may still differ among the various Euronext markets but are being integrated and harmonized within the Euroclear group settlement systems, with the exception of the Portuguese market for which settlement activities will continue to be performed by Interbolsa. Trading and Market Monitoring MiFID, the Market Abuse Directive, the European Securities and Markets Authority’s standards and the Euronext Rulebooks all provide minimum requirements for monitoring of trading and enforcement of rules by Euronext as the operator of regulated markets. Euronext has set up a framework to organize market monitoring by which it: • monitors trading in order to identify breaches of the rules, disorderly trading conditions or conduct that may involve market abuse; 20 Table of Contents • reports to the relevant national regulator of breaches of rules or of legal obligations relating to market integrity; and • monitors compliance with and enforces the Euronext Rulebooks. Market surveillance and monitoring are implemented through a two-step process consisting of real-time market surveillance and post-trade (i.e., “next day”) analysis of executed trades. Real-time monitoring of the markets is performed by Cash Market Operations (“CMO”) and, for derivatives markets, by NYSE Liffe Market Services (“NLMS”). Suspected cases of market abuse are reported to the relevant regulator and possible infringements of Euronext rules are reported to the Market Integrity Department of Euronext. Post-trade monitoring is undertaken by the Market Integrity Department in respect of the cash and continental derivatives markets and by the Audit, Investigation and Membership Unit (“AIM”) in respect of the London derivatives market. Both departments have monitoring tools that are used to detect and deter particular types of abusive behavior and conduct audits of member firms. The Market Integrity Department and AIM are also responsible for the conduct of on-site member inspections and investigations, and handles infringements of Euronext rules through enforcement actions. Ownership Limitations The rules set forth below apply to an acquisition of a direct or indirect interest in NYSE Euronext, and in the case of our European markets, our European market operator subsidiaries. These rules are in addition to shareholder reporting rules applicable to listed companies generally. • Under our charter, no person (either alone or together with its related persons) may beneficially own shares of our common stock representing in the aggregate more than 20% of the total number of votes entitled to be cast on any matter; and no person (either alone or together with its related persons) shall be entitled to vote or cause the voting of shares of our common stock representing in the aggregate more than 10% of the total number of votes entitled to be cast on any matter, and no person (either alone or together with its related persons) may acquire the ability to vote more than 10% of the total number of votes entitled to be cast on any matter by virtue of agreements entered into by other persons not to vote shares of our outstanding capital stock. • Under Dutch law, no shareholder may hold or acquire, directly or indirectly, or try to increase its stake to more than 10% of a recognized market operator without first obtaining a declaration of no-objection from the Dutch Minister of Finance. • Under French law, the acquisition and divesture by any person or group of persons acting in a concerted manner of 10%, 20%, 331/3% or 50% of Euronext Paris shares or voting rights must be authorized by ACP. By exception to the above, in the event that the acquisition or divesture of shares takes place outside of France between non-French persons, such acquisition or divesture need only be notified to the ACP, which, if it determines that such transaction could adversely affect the fit and proper management of Euronext Paris, could decide to review and amend Euronext’s credit institution license. • Also under French law, any person or group of persons acting in concert who acquires Euronext Paris shares or voting rights in excess of 10%, 20%, 331/3%, 50% or 662/3% is required to inform Euronext Paris, which in turn must notify the AMF and make the information public. Any person acquiring direct or indirect control must obtain the prior approval of the Minister of Finance upon recommendation of the AMF. • Under Belgian law, any person who intends to acquire securities in a market undertaking and who would, as a result of such acquisition, hold directly or indirectly 10% or more of the share capital or of the voting rights in that market undertaking, must provide prior notice to the CBFA. The same obligation applies each time such person intends to increase its ownership by an additional 5%. • Under Portuguese law, a shareholder who intends to acquire, directly or indirectly, a dominant holding in a Portuguese market operator must obtain the prior authorization of the Portuguese Ministry of Finance. In addition, all entities acquiring or disposing of a holding (direct or indirect) in a market undertaking in Portugal at the level of 2%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 331/3%, 50%, 662/3% and 90% of the voting rights, must notify the CMVM of the acquisition or disposal within three business days following the relevant transaction. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Industry We face intense competition and compete globally with a broad range of market participants for listings and trading volumes. Our industry is highly competitive. We face significant competition for listings and trading of cash equities, exchange-traded funds, closed-end funds, structured products, futures, options and other derivatives. We expect competition in our industry to intensify. Increased competition from existing and new competitors could cause our exchanges to experience a decline in their share of listing and trading activity. Such a decline would mean that we would lose the associated transaction fees and proportionate share of market data fees, and could have increased pressure on our fee levels in order to remain competitive. Recent trends towards the liberalization and globalization of world capital markets have resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition among markets in different geographical areas. As a result, global competition among listing venues, trading markets and other execution venues has become more intense. In addition, in the last several years the structure of the exchange sector has changed significantly through industry consolidation and demutualizations (in which an exchange converts from member ownership to for-profit status), trends that have contributed to a more intense competitive environment. Our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include both traditional and nontraditional trading venues. These include regulated markets, electronic communications networks and other alternative trading systems, multilateral trading facilities, market makers, banks, brokers and other financial market participants. Some of these competitors are also among our largest customers. We also face significant and growing competition from financial institutions that have the ability to divert trading volumes from us. For example, banks and brokers may assume the role of principal and act as counterparty to orders originating from their customers, thus “internalizing” order flow that would otherwise be transacted on one of our exchanges. Banks and brokers may also enter into bilateral trading arrangements by matching their order flows, depriving our exchanges of potential trading volumes. We expect to face competition from new entrants into our markets, as well as new initiatives sponsored by existing market participants such as banks and liquidity providers. We compete with other market participants in a variety of ways, including the cost, quality and speed of trade execution, market liquidity, the functionality, ease of use and performance of trading systems, the range of products and services offered to customers and listed companies, technological innovation and reputation. Additionally, our competitors may consolidate and form alliances, which may give their markets greater liquidity, lower costs and better pricing than we will be able to offer, and allow them to better leverage their relationships with customers and alliance partners or better exploit brand names to market and sell their services. Many of our current and prospective competitors have greater financial resources than we do, and many are subject to less burdensome regulation than we face. See “— Risks Relating to Regulation — We may face competitive disadvantages if we do not receive necessary regulatory approvals for new business initiatives.” If we fail to compete successfully, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. For more information on the competitive environment in which we operate, see Item 1 — “Business.” Our industry is characterized by intense price competition. Our industry is characterized by intense price competition. The pricing model for trade execution for equity securities has changed in response to competitive market conditions. In recent years, some of our competitors have engaged in aggressive pricing strategies, including lowering the fees that they charge for taking liquidity and increasing the liquidity payments (or rebates) they provide as an incentive for providers of liquidity in certain markets. In addition, our listing fees are subject to competitive pressures. It is likely that we will continue to experience significant pricing pressures, including as a result of continuing consolidations, and that some of our competitors will seek to increase their share of trading or listings by further reducing their transaction fees, by offering larger liquidity payments or by offering other forms of financial or other incentives. As a result, we could lose a substantial percentage of our share of trading if we are unable to effectively compete on price, or our profit 22 Table of Contents margins could decline if we reduce pricing in response. Some competitors, especially those outside of the United States, have high profit margins in business areas in which we do not engage, which may enable them to execute these strategies. In addition, many internalization strategies are driven by a cost-saving or profit incentive, thus further increasing the desire for our customers to avoid incurring fees on our exchanges. This environment could lead to loss of order flow and decreased revenues, and consequently could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Adverse economic conditions could negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. General economic conditions affect the overall level of trading activity and new listings in securities markets, which directly impact our operating results. A significant portion of our revenue depends, either directly or indirectly, on transaction-based fees that, in turn, depend on our ability to attract and maintain order flow, both in absolute terms and relative to other market centers. Adverse economic conditions may result in a decline in trading volume and demand for market data and a deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies, which may adversely affect our revenues and future growth. Declines in volumes may impact our market share or pricing structures. Poor economic conditions may also negatively impact new listings by reducing the number or size of securities offerings. We also generate a significant portion of our revenues from listing fees. Poor economic conditions, industry-specific circumstances, capital market trends and regulatory requirements may also negatively impact new listings by reducing the number or size of securities offerings. Global market and economic conditions have been difficult and volatile in recent years, in particular for financial services companies that are our most significant customers. While volatile markets can generate increased transaction volume, prolonged recessionary conditions can adversely affect trading volumes and the demand for market data, and can lead to slower collections of accounts receivable as well as increased counterparty risk. In the event of a significant and sustained decline in trading volumes, we would lose revenue, and our inability to quickly reduce infrastructure and overhead expenses would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. During 2009 and 2010, companies in many different industries found it difficult to borrow money from banks and other lending sources, and also experienced difficulty raising funds in the capital markets. While access to credit markets has improved, the upheaval in the credit markets continues to impact the economy. While we have not experienced reductions in our borrowing capacity, lenders in general have taken actions that indicate their concerns regarding liquidity in the marketplace. These actions have included reduced advance rates for certain security types, more stringent requirements for collateral eligibility and higher interest rates. Should lenders continue to take additional similar actions, the cost of conducting our business may increase and our ability to implement our business initiatives could be limited. In addition, our ability to raise financing could be impaired if rating agencies, lenders or investors develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects, or of prospects for our industry. Risks Relating to Our Business Our share of trading in NYSE- and Euronext-listed securities has declined and may continue to decline. As a result of increasing competition, including from nontraditional trading venues and other competitors that are also among our largest customers, our share of trading on a matched basis in NYSE-listed securities has declined from approximately 38% in 2009 to 36% in 2010. Our market share of Euronext-listed securities remained relatively stable in 2010. MTFs offer trading in the securities listed on Euronext and other European regulated markets and compete directly with us for market share. Although our share of the market for NYSE- and Euronext-listed securities has stabilized somewhat, if our trading share continues to decrease relative to our competitors, we may be less attractive to market participants as a source of liquidity. This could further accelerate our loss of trading volume. Similarly, a lower trading share of NYSE- or Euronext-listed securities may cause issuers to question the value of an NYSE or Euronext listing, which could adversely impact our listing business. If growth in our overall trading volume of NYSE- or Euronext-listed securities does not offset any significant decline in our trading share, or 23 Table of Contents if a decline in our trading share in NYSE- or Euronext-listed securities makes the NYSE or Euronext market appear less liquid, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, in the United States, the allocation of market data revenues among competing market centers is tied to trading share. A decline in NYSE trading share lowers the percentage of the NMS tape pool revenues from the Consolidated Tape Association and Unlisted Trading Privileges that NYSE keeps. Declines in our trading share could also adversely affect the growth, viability and importance of some of our market data products. Broad market trends and other factors beyond our control could significantly reduce demand for our services and harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business, financial condition and operating results are highly dependent upon the levels of activity on our exchanges, and in particular upon the volume of financial instruments traded, the number and shares outstanding of listed issuers, the number of new listings, the number of traders in the market and similar factors. Our financial condition and operating results are also dependent upon the success of our information services and technology solutions business, which, in turn, is directly dependent on the commercial well being of our customers. We have no direct control over these variables. Among other things, we depend more upon the relative attractiveness of the financial instruments traded on our exchanges, and the relative attractiveness of the exchanges as a market on which to trade these financial instruments, as compared to other exchanges and trading platforms. These variables are in turn influenced by economic, political and market conditions in the United States, Europe and elsewhere in the world that are beyond our control, including those described under “— Risks Relating to Our Industry — Adverse economic conditions could negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results” and factors such as: • broad trends in business and finance, including industry-specific circumstances, capital market trends and the mergers and acquisitions environment; • terrorism and war; • concerns over inflation and the level of institutional or retail confidence; • changes in government monetary policy and foreign currency exchange rates; • the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital; • the availability of alternative investment opportunities; • changes in the level of trading activity; • changes and volatility in the prices of securities; • changes in tax policy; • the level and volatility of interest rates; • legislative and regulatory changes, including the potential for regulatory arbitrage among regulated and unregulated markets if significant policy differences emerge among markets; • the perceived attractiveness, or lack of attractiveness, of the U.S. or European capital markets; • the outbreak of contagious disease pandemics or other public health emergencies in the regions in which we operate which could decrease levels of economic and market activities; and • unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading. If levels of activity on our exchanges are adversely affected by any of the factors described above or other factors beyond our control, then our business, financial condition and operating results could also be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets are tested for impairment at least annually, and are also tested when factors arise that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable, such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our businesses. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined. See Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Impairment of Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Other Assets.” If additional impairment charges are incurred, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We face foreign currency exchange rate risk and other market risks. Since we conduct operations in several different countries, including the United States and several European countries, substantial portions of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars, euros and pounds sterling. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in currency exchange rates can materially affect our reported results. We may also experience other market risks, including changes in interest rates and in prices of marketable equity securities that we own. We may use derivative financial instruments to reduce certain of these risks. If our strategies to reduce these market risks are not successful, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Any strategic transactions that we undertake may require significant resources, result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities or fail to deliver anticipated benefits. We have in the past and may continue to enter into business combination transactions, make acquisitions and enter into partnerships, joint ventures and other strategic investments or alliances, some of which may be material. The market for acquisition targets and strategic alliances is highly competitive, particularly in light of consolidation in the exchange sector and existing or potential future restrictions on foreign direct investments in some countries. Market conditions may limit our ability to use our stock as an acquisition currency. In addition, our bylaws require acquisitions, mergers and consolidations involving more than 30% of our aggregate equity market capitalization or value (or, under certain circumstances, transactions involving an entity whose principal place of business is outside of the United States and Europe) to be approved by two-thirds of our directors. These and other factors may adversely affect our ability to identify acquisition targets or strategic partners consistent with our objectives, or may make us less attractive as an acquirer or strategic partner. We cannot be sure that we will complete any business combination, acquisition, partnership, joint venture or strategic investment or alliance that we announce. Completion of these transactions is usually subject to closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, over which we have limited or no control. In particular, our recently announced business combination agreement with Deutsche Börse AG is subject to approval by holders of a majority of the outstanding NYSE Euronext shares and to a 75% acceptance level of the exchange offer to Deutsche Börse shareholders as well as approval by the relevant competition and financial, securities and other regulatory authorities in the United States and Europe, and other customary closing conditions. Even if we do succeed in completing a transaction, the process of integration may produce unforeseen operating difficulties and expenses and may absorb significant attention of management that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of the business. In addition, in connection with any such transaction, we may issue shares of our stock that dilute our existing stockholders, expend cash, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or incur other expenses, any of which could harm our business, financial condition or operating results. We cannot be sure that we will recognize the anticipated benefits of any transaction we undertake, such as any expected cost savings, growth opportunities, synergies or improvements in our competitive profile A variety of factors, including unanticipated difficulties integrating our existing technology platforms onto our Universal Trading Platform, regulatory changes, competitive developments, labor conflicts and litigation, currency fluctuations and inflation, may 25 Table of Contents adversely affect any anticipated cost savings, revenue potential or other anticipated benefits. The anticipated benefits of a particular transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. We cannot direct the actions of strategic partners or joint ventures that we do not control. We are generally unable to cause dividends or distributions to be made to us from the entities in which we have a minority investment or to direct the management of such entities. Some of our investments may entail particular risks, including the possibility that a partner, majority investor or co-venturer may have different interests or goals, and may take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or business objectives, any and all of which could adversely impact our brand name and reputation. Also, our minority positions generally will be illiquid due to regulatory impediments to sale or because the market for them is limited. If we are unable to successfully maximize the benefits of our strategic investments and joint ventures, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We face risks when entering into or increasing our presence in markets where we do not currently compete or entering into new business lines. We may enter into or increase our presence in markets that already possess established competitors who may enjoy the protection of high barriers to entry. Attracting customers in certain countries may also be subject to a number of risks, including currency exchange rate risk, difficulties in enforcing agreements or collecting receivables, longer payment cycles, compliance with the laws or regulations of these countries, and political and regulatory uncertainties. We may also expand our presence or enter into newly developing arenas of competition, such as MTFs in Europe, where less regulated competitors exist and demand for such services is subject to uncertainty. As a result, demand and market acceptance for our products and services within these markets will be subject to a high degree of uncertainty and risk. We may be unable to enter into or increase our presence in these markets and compete successfully. We have also recently expanded into the commercial technology business through our Information Services and Technology Solutions segment as a part of our business strategy. Our experience in this line of business is limited and demand and market acceptance for our products and services within this line of business will be subject to a high degree of uncertainty and risk and we may be unable to compete successfully with more experienced market participants. Our business may be adversely affected by risks associated with clearing activities. Our U.K.-regulated derivatives subsidiary, the London Market of NYSE Liffe (for the purposes of this paragraph, “NYSE Liffe”), took full responsibility for clearing activities in our U.K. derivatives market on July 30, 2009. As a result, NYSE Liffe became the central counterparty for contracts entered into by its clearing members on the NYSE Liffe market and outsources certain services to LCH.Clearnet through the NYSE Liffe Clearing arrangement. NYSE Liffe has credit exposure to those clearing members. NYSE Liffe’s clearing members may encounter economic difficulties as a result of the market turmoil and tightening credit markets, which could result in bankruptcy and failure. NYSE Liffe offsets its credit exposure through arrangements with LCH.Clearnet in which LCH.Clearnet provides clearing guarantee backing and related risk functions to NYSE Liffe, and under which LCH.Clearnet is responsible for any defaulting member positions and for applying its resources to the resolution of such a default. In addition, NYSE Liffe maintains policies and procedures to help ensure that its clearing members can satisfy their obligations, including by requiring members to meet minimum capital and net worth requirements and to deposit collateral for their trading activity. Nevertheless, we cannot be sure that in extreme circumstances, LCH.Clearnet might not itself suffer difficulties, in which case these measures might not prove sufficient to protect NYSE Liffe from a default, or might fail to ensure that NYSE Liffe is not materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default. See Item 1 — “Business — Derivatives — NYSE Liffe Clearing.” We have also entered into a joint venture with the DTCC to establish NYPC, which is expected to be operational during the first half of 2011, pending regulatory approvals. NYPC will initially clear fixed income futures listed on NYSE Liffe US, with the ability to add other exchanges and Derivatives Clearing Organizations in the future. We plan to commit a $50 million financial guarantee to the NYPC default fund and will face clearing risks similar to those we expect to face with respect to NYSE Liffe Clearing. We may also in the future expand our 26 Table of Contents clearing operations to other markets and financial products, which would increase our exposure to these types of risks. We operate in a business environment that continues to experience significant and rapid technological change. Technology is a key component of our business strategy, and we regard it as crucial to our success. We seek to offer market participants a comprehensive suite of best-in-class technology solutions in a centralized environment, including successfully transitioning to our Universal Trading Platform on a global basis and implementing our global data center strategy. However, we operate in a business environment that has undergone, and continues to experience, significant and rapid technological change. In recent years, electronic trading has grown significantly, and customer demand for increased choice of execution methods has increased. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, capacity, accessibility and features of our trading platforms, software, systems and technologies. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • develop and license leading technologies; • enhance existing trading platforms and services and create new platforms and services; • respond to customer demands, technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; and • continue to attract and retain highly skilled technology staff to maintain and develop existing technology and to adapt to and manage emerging technologies. The development and expansion of electronic trading and market data-related technologies entail significant technological, financial and business risks. Any failure or delay in exploiting technology, or failure to exploit technology as effectively as competitors, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The adoption of new technologies or market practices may require us to devote additional resources to improve and adapt our services. For example, the growth of algorithmic and so called “black box trading” requires us to increase systems and network capacity to ensure that increases in message traffic can be accommodated without an adverse effect on system performance. Keeping pace with these ever-increasing requirements can be expensive, and we cannot be sure that we will succeed in making these improvements to our technology infrastructure in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis and to adapt to technological advancements and changing standards, we may be unable to compete effectively, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Moreover, we may incur substantial development, sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort to add new products or services to our trading platforms. Even after incurring these costs, we ultimately may not realize any, or may realize only small amounts of, revenues for these new products or services. Consequently, if revenue does not increase in a timely fashion as a result of these expansion initiatives, the up-front costs associated with expansion may exceed revenue and reduce our working capital and income. Our reliance on third parties could adversely affect our business if these third parties cease to perform the functions that they currently perform at NYSE Euronext. We rely on third parties for certain clearing, regulatory and other services. For example, we are dependent on LCH.Clearnet to provide a clearing guarantee and manage related risk functions in connection with clearing on our European cash and derivatives markets. We also rely on the services of Euroclear for settling transactions on our European cash markets (except in Portugal). FINRA performs the market surveillance and enforcement functions for our U.S. equities and options markets, NYSE, NYSE Arca and NYSE Amex. Although NYSE Regulation oversees FINRA’s performance of regulatory services for our markets, and NYSE Regulation has retained staff associated with such responsibility as well as for rule development and interpretations, regulatory policy, oversight of listed issuers’ compliance with applicable listing standards and real-time stockwatch reviews, we are significantly reliant on FINRA to perform these regulatory functions. We also depend on the Consolidated Tape Association to oversee the dissemination of real-time trade and quote information in NYSE- and NYSE 27 Table of Contents Amex-listed securities. To the extent that any of these third parties experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform their obligations, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. We also rely on members of our trading community to maintain markets and add liquidity. Global market and economic conditions have been difficult and volatile in recent years, in particular for financial services companies such as our members. To the extent that any of our largest members experiences difficulties, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform market making activities, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. Insufficient systems capacity and systems failures could adversely affect our business. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of complex computer and communications systems. Heavy use of our platforms and order routing systems during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility could cause our systems to operate slowly or even to fail for periods of time. Our U.S. systems capacity requirements could grow significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including changes in the NYSE market and growth in our options trading business. Our failure to maintain systems or to ensure sufficient capacity may also result in a temporary disruption of our regulatory and reporting functions. We have experienced systems failures in the past, and it is possible that we will experience systems failures in the future. Systems failures could be caused by, among other things, periods of insufficient capacity or network bandwidth, power or telecommunications failures, acts of God or war, terrorism, human error, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events over which we have little or no control. We also rely on third parties for systems support. Any interruption in these third-party services or deterioration in the performance of these services could also be disruptive to our business. In addition, our systems may be adversely affected by failures of other trading systems, as a result of which we may be required to suspend trading activity in particular securities or, under certain circumstances, unwind trades. If we cannot expand system capacity to handle increased demand, or if our systems otherwise fail to perform and we experience disruptions in service, slower response times or delays in introducing new products and services, then we could incur reputational damage, regulatory sanctions, litigation, loss of trading share, loss of trading volume and loss of revenues, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks. The secure transmission of confidential information over public and other networks is a critical element of our operations. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully access and use our information or our customers’ information, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Our security measures are costly, and may prove to be inadequate. This could cause us to incur reputational damage, regulatory sanctions, litigation, loss of trading share, loss of trading volume and loss of revenues, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be at greater risk from terrorism than other companies. Given our position as the world’s leading market, our prominence in the global securities industry, and the concentration of many of our properties and personnel in U.S. and European financial centers, including lower Manhattan, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target of, or an indirect casualty of, attacks by terrorists or terrorist organizations, or other extremist organizations that employ threatening or harassing means to achieve their social or political objectives. It is impossible to predict the likelihood or impact of any terrorist attack on the securities industry generally or on our business. In the event of an attack or a threat of an attack, our security measures and contingency plans may be inadequate to prevent significant disruptions in our business, technology or access to the infrastructure necessary 28 Table of Contents to maintain our business. For example, if part or all of our primary data center facilities become inoperable, our disaster recovery and business continuity planning practices may not be sufficient and we may experience a significant delay in resuming normal business operations. Damage to our facilities due to terrorist attacks may be significantly in excess of insurance coverage, and we may not be able to insure against some damage at a reasonable price or at all. The threat of terrorist attacks may also negatively affect our ability to attract and retain employees. In addition, terrorist attacks may cause instability or decreased trading in the securities markets, including trading on exchanges. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business. One of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. Our reputation could be harmed in many different ways, including by regulatory, governance or technology failures or the activities of members or listed companies whom we do not control. Damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges, as well as reduce the trading volume on our exchanges. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. A failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, could adversely affect our business. We own or license rights to a number of trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights and patents that we use in our business, including exclusive rights to use certain indexes as the basis for equity index derivatives products traded on our futures markets. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, customers, strategic investors and others. The protective steps taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our reputation and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, defending our intellectual property rights may require significant financial and managerial resources, the expenditure of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies, trademarks or other intellectual property. Some of our competitors currently own patents and have actively been filing patent applications in recent years, some of which may relate to our trading platforms and business processes. As a result, we may face allegations that we have infringed or otherwise violated the intellectual property rights of third parties. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. Successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to significant litigation risks and other liabilities. Many aspects of our business involve litigation risks. These risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over terms of a securities trade or from claims that a system or operational failure or delay caused monetary losses to a customer, as well as potential liability from claims that we facilitated an unauthorized transaction or that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a transaction. Dissatisfied customers frequently make claims against their service providers regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud. Although aspects of our business are protected by regulatory immunity, we could nevertheless be exposed to substantial liability under U.S. federal and state laws and court decisions, laws and court decisions in the other countries where we operate, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, CFTC or European and other regulators. We could incur significant expenses defending claims, even those without merit. In addition, an adverse resolution of any lawsuit or claim against us may require us to pay substantial damages or impose restrictions on how we conduct business, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. For a discussion of certain legal claims against us, see 29 Table of Contents Item 8 — “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 17 — Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Matters.” Perceptions about the legal and regulatory environment in the United States may make it difficult for us to compete with non-U.S. exchanges. Our U.S. exchanges compete for listings of securities of both U.S. and non-U.S. companies. However, the legal and regulatory environment in the United States, and market perceptions about that environment, may make it difficult for our U.S. exchanges to compete with non-U.S. exchanges for listings. For example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes a stringent set of corporate governance, reporting and other requirements on both U.S. and non-U.S. companies with securities listed on a U.S. exchange. Significant resources are necessary for companies to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and we believe this has had an adverse impact on the ability of our U.S. exchanges to attract and retain listings. Furthermore, as described under “— Risks Relating to Regulation — We may be adversely affected by the new financial reform legislation in the United States and pending reforms in Europe,” the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act imposes new corporate governance requirements on U.S. listed companies, which may diminish the relative attractiveness of a listing on a U.S. exchange and adversely affect the ability of our U.S. exchanges to attract and retain listings. The number of U.S. companies that have chosen to list shares exclusively on a non-U.S. exchange has increased in recent years. At the same time, both U.S. and non-U.S. companies are increasingly seeking to access the U.S. capital markets through private transactions that do not involve listing on a U.S. exchange, such as through Rule 144A transactions directed exclusively to mutual funds, hedge funds and other large institutional investors. The SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board have taken steps to address some of these concerns through initiatives that include revisions to the rules relating to internal control over financial reporting established under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, rules that facilitate the delisting and deregistration of securities issued by some non-U.S. companies, and rules that exempt some non-U.S. companies from U.S. GAAP reconciliation requirements. It is unclear whether U.S. or non-U.S. companies will exhibit greater interest in accessing the U.S. public markets as a result of these changes. Moreover, the rules facilitating a non-U.S. company’s ability to delist its securities and exit the U.S. public company reporting system may make it more difficult for us to retain listings of non-U.S. companies, and may diminish the perception of our U.S. exchanges as premier listing venues, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Provisions of our organizational documents may delay or deter a change of control. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control, or an acquisition proposal, that our stockholders might consider favorable. These include provisions: • vesting our board of directors with sole power to set the number of directors; • limiting the persons that may call special stockholders’ meetings; • limiting stockholder action by written consent; • requiring supermajority stockholder approval with respect to certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • restricting any person (either alone or together with its related persons) from voting or causing the voting of shares of stock representing more than 10% of our outstanding voting capital stock (including as a result of any agreement by any other persons not to vote shares of stock); and • restricting any person (either alone or together with its related persons) from beneficially owning shares of stock representing more than 20% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights and preferences of these shares without stockholder approval. Any series of preferred stock is likely to be senior to our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. The ability of our board of 30 Table of Contents directors to issue preferred stock could have the effect of discouraging unsolicited acquisition proposals, thus adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Securities and derivatives markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as the factors listed below, could affect the market price of our common stock: • quarterly variations in our results of operations or the results of operations of our competitors; • changes in earning estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earning estimates or ratings downgrades; • the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; • announcements related to litigation; • potential acquisitions by us of, or of us by, other companies; • developments in our industry; and • general economic, market and political conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. Risks Relating to Regulation We operate in a highly regulated industry and may be subject to censures, fines and other legal proceedings if we fail to comply with our legal and regulatory obligations. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to extensive regulation. The securities industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation and could become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. As a matter of public policy, these regulations are designed to safeguard the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and to protect the interests of investors in those markets. The SEC and CFTC regulate our U.S. exchanges and have broad powers to audit, investigate and enforce compliance with their rules and regulations and impose sanctions for non-compliance. European regulators have similar powers with respect to our exchanges in their respective countries. As the scope of our business expands, we may also become subject to oversight by other regulators. In addition, as described below, there has been and may continue to be increasing demand for more regulation and stricter oversight which could cause excessive regulatory burdens. Our ability to comply with applicable laws and rules will largely depend on our establishment and maintenance of appropriate systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Both the U.S. regulators and the European regulators are vested with broad enforcement powers over exchanges in their respective jurisdictions, including powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit an exchange from engaging in some of its operations or suspend or revoke an exchange’s recognition, license or registration. In the case of actual or alleged noncompliance with regulatory requirements, our exchanges could be subject to investigations and administrative or judicial proceedings that may result in substantial penalties, including revocation of an exchange’s recognition, license or registration. Any such investigation or proceeding, whether successful or unsuccessful, would result in substantial costs and diversions of resources and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, action by any of our regulators requiring us to limit or otherwise change our operations, or prohibiting us from engaging in certain activities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. For instance, on September 30, 2010, the SEC and CFTC issued a joint report presenting their findings regarding the market events of May 6, 2010, commonly referred to as the “flash crash”. Although we do not anticipate that the joint report will lead to the adoption of significant regulatory changes that adversely affect our business, the risk of such changes is heightened as a result of the breadth of the review by the SEC and CFTC, the impact of the May 6th event on investors and the marketplace, and the fact that certain aspects of our business were highlighted in the joint report. Furthermore, any regulatory changes in response to the flash crash and joint report may impact certain of our customers’ business models and practices, in particular high frequency trading, which may in turn affect our business. 31 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the new financial reform legislation in the United States and pending reforms in Europe. On June 30, 2010, the House passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”). The Senate passed the Act on July 15, 2010 and the President signed it into law on July 21, 2010. Few provisions of the Act became effective immediately upon signing and many of its provisions require the adoption of regulations by various federal agencies and departments. Furthermore, the legislation contains substantial ambiguities, many of which will not be resolved until regulations are adopted. As a result, it is difficult to predict all of the effects that the legislation will have on us, although we do expect it to impact our business in various and significant ways. For instance, NYPC, our joint venture futures clearing organization that we expect to become operational in the first half of 2011, pending regulatory approvals, could become subject to heightened prudential standards to be adopted by the CFTC as well as to the Federal Reserve’s back-up authority to regulate financial market utilities that are primarily regulated by the CFTC, if NYPC is designated as systemically important. In addition, other of our subsidiaries that are not regulated in the U.S. today could be required to register with regulatory authorities and be subject to extensive regulation. The Act authorizes the SEC and CFTC to adopt position limits on the trading of swap and security-based swap products that may trade today or in the future on the facilities of certain of our subsidiaries. Such position limits could cause market participants to change their trading behavior and could result in our experiencing a loss of transaction-based revenue and limit opportunities for future growth. The Act also provides regulators, such as the SEC, with enhanced examination and enforcement authorities, which could result in our regulated subsidiaries incurring increased costs to respond to examinations or other regulatory inquiries. Similar uncertainties arise in the context of financial reform and our European cash, listings and derivatives businesses, which are largely affected by European regulations. The European Commission has proposed or is consulting on significant reforms, notably on the following subjects: • A legislative proposal on the revision of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID”) that governs most of NYSE Euronext’s day-to-day activities as a market operator is expected to be released by the European Commission during the course of 2011. In December 2010, the European Commission issued a Public Consultation on the MiFID Review. On February 2, 2011, NYSE Euronext submitted a written response to the Commission’s Public Consultation; • In September 2010, the European Commission released a legislative proposal for a Regulation on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories (formerly, the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”)). NYSE Euronext and over two hundred other parties responded to the Commission’s Public Consultation with detailed written submissions. The adoption of the Regulation is subject to the co-decision process by the European Parliament and the Council, with political agreement expected to be achieved by the end of 2011. This would enable EMIR to be implemented in 2012, in line with the G20 timetable. The original emphasis in EMIR was on mandating central counterparty (“CCP”) clearing for “eligible” OTC contracts. However, detailed discussion continues about the full scope of the Regulation, regulatory standards for CCPs, and others, which may carry a risk of potentially burdensome and costly operational requirements being imposed on CCPs. In addition, work within the Bank for International Settlements is expected to lead to the current zero risk weighting of collateral lodged with CCPs being replaced by a more burdensome regime for a CCP’s counterparties; • In September 2010 the European Commission published a legislative proposal for a Regulation on short selling and certain aspects of credit default swaps to regulate short selling activity in the EU. The adoption of the Short Selling Regulation is currently subject to the co-decision process with the European Parliament and the Council; • The European Commission has carried out a Public Consultation in relation to the Market Abuse Directive (“MAD”), and is expected to release a legislative proposal for a revised MAD during the course of 2011. If and when the above legislative proposals are adopted, and if any other European legislation affecting our business is adopted or amended, they could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our European businesses are also subject to national legislation in Europe. Part of the legislation governing financial markets in the European countries where we operate is undergoing reform and new legislation is 32 Table of Contents being enacted or proposed. For example, on July 26, 2010, the UK Government announced its plans for reforming the UK regulatory regime, to involve the abolition of the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) and its replacement with two separate regulators, one covering prudential risks and the other conduct of business matters. This would mean that, from the end of 2012, our London trading market of NYSE Liffe would be principally overseen by a new regulator, the Consumer Protection and Markets Authority (“CPMA”), whereas our London-based clearing activities would be principally regulated by the Bank of England. All of these changes could affect our business in the future. In Belgium, as from March 2011 prudential competences of the Commission bancaire, financière et des assurances (“CBFA”) should be transferred to the Belgian National Bank with possible impact on our clearing activities. Finally, three new independent European agencies (the European Securities Markets Authority (“ESMA”) in the field of financial markets, the European Banking Authority (“EBA”) for the banking field and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (“EIOPA”) for insurances and occupational pensions companies) have been created to contribute to safeguard the stability of the European Union’s financial system by ensuring the integrity, transparency, efficiency and orderly functioning of securities markets, as well as enhancing investor protection. In particular, ESMA is intended to foster supervisory convergence both amongst securities regulators, and across financial sectors by working closely with the other competent European Supervisory Authorities. The need for those agencies to become fully operational and the dialogue they will have to put in place with the national competent regulators could slow the process and the implementation of any new measures. It is expected that market participants will change their behavior in response to these new regulations. We are highly dependent upon the levels and nature of activity on our exchanges, in particular the volume of financial instruments traded, the number of traders in the market, the relative attractiveness of the financial instruments traded on our exchanges and similar factors. To the extent that the above regulatory changes cause market participants to reduce the levels or restrict the nature of activity on our exchanges, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. Furthermore, our U.S. and international exchanges compete for listings in other jurisdictions. If the Act or any of the pending European legislation described above adversely affects the legal and regulatory environment surrounding the markets we operate, or the market perceptions thereof, it may make it difficult for our exchanges to compete with competitor exchanges in different jurisdictions. For instance, the Act imposes new corporate governance requirements on U.S.-listed companies, which may diminish the relative attractiveness of a listing on a U.S. exchange and adversely affect the ability of our U.S. exchanges to attract and retain listings. We may face competitive disadvantages if we do not receive necessary or timely regulatory approvals for new business initiatives. We currently operate three U.S. registered national exchanges and one DCM. Pursuant to U.S. laws and regulations, these exchanges are responsible for regulating their member organizations through the adoption and enforcement of rules governing the trading activities, business conduct and financial responsibility of their member organizations and the individuals associated with them. Changes to the rules of the U.S.-registered securities exchanges are generally subject to the approval of the SEC, which publishes proposed rule changes for public comment. Changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws and changes to the organizational documents or rules of our U.S. exchanges, to the extent affecting the activities of these exchanges, must also be approved. We may from time to time seek to engage in new business activities, some of which may require changes to our or our U.S. exchanges’ organizational documents or rules. We also operate exchanges in France, Belgium, Portugal, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Regulators in each of these countries regulate exchanges through the adoption and enforcement of rules governing the trading activities, business conduct and financial responsibility of such exchanges and individuals associated with them. All of our initiatives in these jurisdictions with regulatory implications must be approved by the relevant authorities in each of these countries, as well as by the coordinating bodies set up under the Euronext regulators’ memoranda of understanding. Changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws and changes to the organizational documents or rules of our European exchanges, to the extent affecting the activities of these exchanges, may also require approvals. We may from time to time seek to engage in new business activities, some of which may require changes to our or our European exchanges’ organizational documents or rules. 33 Table of Contents Any delay or denial of a requested approval could cause us to lose business opportunities, slow our ability to integrate our different markets or slow or impede our ability to change our governance practices. Our competitive position could be significantly weakened if our competitors are able to obtain regulatory approval for new functionalities faster, or with less cost or difficulty, than we are, or if approval is not required for our competitors but is required for us. For instance, we may be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain SEC approval to make permanent our New Market Model pilot program, which includes the creation of designated market makers. Competitors that are not registered exchanges are subject to less stringent regulation. In addition, as we seek to expand our product base, we could become subject to the oversight of additional regulatory bodies. An “extraterritorial” change of law may adversely affect our business and, under certain special arrangements, our rights to control a substantial portion of our assets. We operate exchanges and regulated markets in various jurisdictions and thus are subject to a variety of laws and regulations. Although we do not anticipate that there will be a material adverse application of European laws to our U.S. exchanges, or a material adverse application of U.S. laws to our European exchanges, the possibility of such an occurrence cannot be ruled out entirely. If this were to occur, and we were not able to effectively mitigate the effects of such “extraterritorial” application, our affected exchanges could experience a reduction in the number of listed companies or business from other market participants, or our business could otherwise be adversely affected. In addition, in connection with obtaining regulatory approval of the merger between NYSE and Euronext, we implemented certain special arrangements consisting of two standby structures, one involving a Dutch foundation and one involving a Delaware trust. The Dutch foundation is empowered to take actions to mitigate the adverse effects of any potential changes in U.S. law that have certain extraterritorial effects on the European regulated markets of NYSE Euronext, and the Delaware trust is empowered to take actions to ameliorate the adverse effects of any potential changes in European law that have certain extraterritorial effects on our U.S. exchanges. These actions include the exercise by the foundation or the trust of potentially significant control over our European or U.S. operations, as the case may be. Although the Dutch foundation and the Delaware trust are required to act in our best interest, subject to certain exceptions, and any remedies implemented may be implemented only for so long as the effects of the material adverse application of law persist, we may, as a result of the exercise of such rights, be required to transfer control over a substantial portion of our business and assets to the direction of the trust or of the foundation. Any such transfer of control could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy and operate on an integrated and global basis, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Regulatory changes or future court rulings may have an adverse impact on our ability to derive revenue from market data fees. Regulatory developments could reduce the amount of revenue that we obtain from market data fees. With respect to our U.S. exchanges, the ability to assess fees for market data products is contingent upon receiving approval from the SEC. There continue to be opposing industry viewpoints as to the extent that we should be able to charge for market data, and it is conceivable that the SEC could undertake an examination of exchange market data fees. If such an examination is conducted, and the results are detrimental to our U.S. exchanges’ ability to charge for market data, there could be a negative impact on our revenues. In November 2004, the SEC proposed corporate governance, transparency, oversight and ownership rules for registered national exchanges and other SROs and issued a concept release examining the efficacy of self-regulation. The concept release also solicited public comment concerning the level of market data fees, following several years of claims from some competitors and data intermediaries that market data fees and revenues are excessive. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any regulatory changes will take effect, or their impact on our business. A determination by the SEC, for example, to link market data fees to marginal costs, to take a more active role in the market data rate-setting process, or to reduce the current levels of market data fees could have an adverse effect on our market data revenues. Our European exchanges are currently authorized to sell trade information on a non-discriminatory basis at a reasonable cost. This regulatory position could be modified or interpreted by the European Commission or future European court decisions in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our European market data revenues. 34 Table of Contents Conflicts of interest between our for-profit status and our regulatory responsibilities may adversely affect our business. We are a for-profit business with regulatory responsibilities. In some circumstances, there may be a conflict of interest between the regulatory responsibilities of certain of our exchanges and some of their respective member organizations and customers. Any failure by one of our exchanges with self-regulatory responsibility to diligently and fairly regulate its member organizations or to otherwise fulfill its regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt regulatory scrutiny and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. NYSE Regulation, our wholly owned not-for-profit indirect subsidiary, oversees FINRA’s performance of market surveillance of our SEC-regulated U.S. exchanges and related enforcement activities, and enforces listed company compliance with applicable standards. Similarly, Euronext is responsible for monitoring trading and enforcing Euronext rules. Conflicts of interest may exist when a for-profit entity, such as NYSE Euronext, also functions as the operator of a regulated exchange. The for-profit entity’s goal of maximizing stockholder value might conflict with the exchange’s responsibilities as a regulator of its member and listed companies. Conflicts also arise when a company lists its securities on an exchange that it owns. The listing of our common stock on the NYSE and Euronext could potentially create a conflict between the exchanges’ regulatory responsibilities to vigorously oversee the listing and trading of securities, on the one hand, and the exchanges’ commercial and economic interest, on the other hand. While NYSE Euronext has implemented structural protections to minimize these potential conflicts, we cannot be sure that such measures will be successful. For a discussion of some of these structural protections, see Item 1 — “Business — Regulation — United States — NYSE Regulation — Structure, Organization and Governance of NYSE Regulation.” Our obligation to allocate significant resources to NYSE Regulation and FINRA limits our ability to reduce our expenses or use our cash in other ways. As of June 14, 2010, FINRA performs the member regulatory functions for our U.S. equities and options markets, NYSE, NYSE Arca and NYSE Amex. NYSE Regulation oversees FINRA’s performance of these regulatory services for our markets. NYSE, NYSE Arca and NYSE Amex are required to allocate significant resources to NYSE Regulation and FINRA. In addition, no regulatory fees, fines or penalties collected by NYSE Regulation may be distributed to NYSE Euronext or any entity other than NYSE Regulation. The obligation to fund NYSE Regulation and the regulatory functions performed by FINRA for our markets could limit our ability to reduce our expense structure, and could limit our ability to invest in or pursue other opportunities that may be beneficial to our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 35 Table of Contents 