Risk Factors—We may be adversely affected by any disruption in our information technology systems." Employees In our domestic and foreign operations, we had approximately 18,500 full-time equivalent employees as of September 30, 2007 consisting of approximately 13,600 hourly personnel and 4,900 salaried employees. Certain subsidiaries in Mexico have collective bargaining agreements, covering warehouse and store personnel, which expire at various times over the next several years. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. 12 Management For information concerning our directors and executive officers, see "Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Item 10 of this report. Regulation We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations, which historically have not had a material effect on our business. For example, in the U.S., most of the products sold and the content and methods of advertising and marketing utilized are regulated by a host of federal agencies, including, in each case, one of more of the following: the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and the Consumer Products Safety Commission. The transportation and disposal of many of our products are also subject to federal regulation. State and local agencies regulate many aspects of our business. In markets outside of the U.S., regulation is also focused and comprehensive. The franchisor-franchisee relationship poses a specific set of regulatory issues. We are subject to the regulation of offering and sale of franchises in the U.S. and Mexico. The applicable laws and regulations affect our business practices, as franchisor, in a number of ways, including restrictions placed upon the offering, renewal, termination and disapproval of assignment of franchises. To date, these laws and regulations have not had a material effect upon operations. Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property Rights Our trademarks, certain of which are material to our business, are registered or legally protected in the U.S., Canada and other countries throughout the world in which we operate. We and our subsidiaries own over 200 trademarks in the U.S. We also rely upon trade secrets and know-how to develop and maintain our competitive position. We protect intellectual property rights through a variety of methods, including reliance upon trademark, patent and trade secret laws, in addition to confidentiality agreements with many vendors, employees, consultants and others who have access to our proprietary information. The duration of our trademark registrations is generally 10 or 15 years, depending on the country in which a mark is registered, and generally the registrations can be renewed. The scope and duration of intellectual property protection varies by jurisdiction and by individual product. Access to Public Filings Our annual report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to such reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.sallybeautyholdings.com, as soon as reasonably possible after they are filed electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act. We will provide copies of such reports to any person, without charge, upon written request to our office of Investor Relations by writing to: our Investor Relations Department at 3001 Colorado Blvd, Denton, TX 76210. The information found on our website shall not be considered to be part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. In addition to our website, you may read and copy public reports we file with or furnish to the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains our reports, proxy and information statements, and other information that we file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 13 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following describes risks that we believe to be material to our business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. There may be additional risks, of which we are not aware or that we do not believe to be material that could materially and adversely affect our business. This report also contains forward-looking statements and the following risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a limited history as a stand-alone company, may be unable to continue to make the changes necessary to operate effectively, and we rely upon Alberto-Culver for the accuracy of certain historical services and information. We recently separated from Alberto-Culver and became an independent publicly-traded company. Apart from a limited number of services provided to us on a transitional basis, Alberto-Culver has no obligation to provide financial, operational or organizational assistance to us or any of our subsidiaries. In addition, we often rely upon Alberto-Culver for the accuracy and/or completeness of certain historical services and information provided to us when we were part of that company. For example, as the successor entity to Alberto-Culver after the separation, we rely upon the prior-year federal income tax returns of Alberto-Culver, and accounting methods established therein, for certain calculations that affect our U.S. federal income tax liability. Please see "Risks Relating to the Tax Treatment of Our Separation from Alberto-Culver and Relating to Our Largest Stockholder" below. We also rely upon Alberto-Culver for historical information related to our insurance programs and other benefits. There can be no assurance that our separation from Alberto-Culver, the resulting absence of its general administrative and professional assistance, or our reliance upon the accuracy or completeness of historical information or services previously provided by them will not have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we are subject following our separation from Alberto-Culver. Our financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of Alberto-Culver, and the reporting and control systems were appropriate for those of subsidiaries of a public company. However, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries was directly subject to reporting and other requirements of the Exchange Act. As an independent publicly-traded company, we are now directly subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act. These reporting and other obligations place significant demands on the management and administrative and operational resources, including accounting resources, of us and our subsidiaries. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Under the SEC rules and regulations, as well as those of the New York Stock Exchange, our compliance costs have increased. In addition, as a public company we are subject to rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require us to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our management's report on, and assessment of, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and the effectiveness of such internal controls. If we fail to properly assess and/or achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to help prevent financial fraud. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our securities. 14 To comply with these requirements, we and our subsidiaries are upgrading our systems, including information technology, implementing additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, and have hired additional legal, accounting and finance staff. In particular, during fiscal year 2008 we will be upgrading our financial reporting system. These and any other required upgrades to our financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology and procedures under the financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies, now and in the future, will require that our management and resources be diverted from our core business to assist in compliance with those requirements. There can be no assurance that the time and resources our management will need to devote to these upgrades, service outages or delays due to the installation of upgrades, or the impact on the reliability of our data from these upgrades will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our historical consolidated financial information contained in this report does not represent our future financial position, results of operations or cash flows nor does it reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as a separate public company during the periods presented. Our historical consolidated financial information for the periods prior to the Separation Transactions included in this report is not representative of our future financial position, results of operations or cash flows nor does it reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods presented. This is primarily because: •Our historical consolidated financial information for the periods prior to the Separation Transactions reflects allocation of expenses from Alberto-Culver. Those allocations may be different from the comparable expenses we would have incurred as a separate company. •Our working capital requirements for the periods prior to the Separation Transactions historically were satisfied as part of Alberto-Culver's corporate-wide cash management policies. In connection with the Separation Transactions, we incurred a large amount of indebtedness and assumed significant debt service costs. As a result, our cost of debt and capitalization are significantly different from that reflected in our historical consolidated financial information for periods prior to the Separation Transactions. •As a result of the Separation Transactions, there have been significant changes in our cost structure, including the costs of establishing an appropriate accounting and reporting system, debt service obligations and other costs of being a stand-alone company. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of our separation from Alberto-Culver on a timely basis or at all. Our success as an independent publicly-traded company depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our separation from Alberto-Culver. These anticipated benefits include increased brand and product recognition as a result of our increased ability to engage in more aggressive marketing and advertising campaigns following the elimination of difficulties arising from our businesses' competition with the customers and suppliers of Alberto-Culver's consumer products business, and the potential for increased operating earnings of our business expected to result from allowing us to focus our attention and resources on our business and customers. We cannot assure you these benefits will occur or that we will be able to achieve growth in the future comparable to our businesses' recent historical sales and earnings growth. As a separate entity, we do not enjoy all of the benefits of scale that Alberto-Culver achieved with the combination of the consumer products business and our business. Prior to the Separation Transactions, Alberto-Culver benefited from the scope and scale of the consumer products business and our business in certain areas, including, among other things, risk management, employee benefits, regulatory compliance, administrative services and human resources. Our loss of these 15 benefits as a consequence of our separation from Alberto-Culver could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, it is possible that some costs will be greater for us than they were for Alberto-Culver due to the loss of volume discounts and the position of being a large customer to service providers and vendors. In addition, the separation eliminated Alberto-Culver's diversification that resulted from operating the consumer products business of Alberto-Culver alongside our distribution business that tended to mitigate financial and operations volatility. As a result, we may experience increased volatility in terms of cash flow, operating results, working capital and financing requirements. We are a holding company, with no operations of our own, and we depend on our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company and do not have any material assets or operations other than ownership of equity interests of our subsidiaries. Our operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries, and our ability to generate cash to meet our obligations or to pay dividends is highly dependent on the earnings of, and receipt of funds from, our subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans. However, none of our subsidiaries are obligated to make funds available to us for payment of dividends. Furthermore, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future that may severely restrict or prohibit our subsidiaries from making distributions, paying dividends or making loans to us. The beauty products distribution industry is highly competitive and is consolidating. The beauty products distribution industry is highly fragmented and there are few significant barriers to entry into the markets for most of the types of products and services we sell. Sally Beauty Supply competes with other domestic and international beauty product wholesale and retail outlets, including local and regional open line beauty supply stores, professional-only beauty supply stores, salons, mass merchandisers, drug stores and supermarkets. BSG competes with other domestic and international beauty product wholesale and retail suppliers and with manufacturers selling professional beauty products directly to salons and individual salon professionals. We also face competition from authorized and unauthorized retailers and Internet sites offering professional salon-only products. The increasing availability of unauthorized professional salon products in large format retail stores such as drug stores, grocery stores and others could have a negative impact on our business. The primary competitive factors in the beauty products distribution industry are the price at which we purchase products from manufacturers, quality, perceived value, consumer brand name recognition, packaging and mix of the products we sell; customer service; the efficiency of our distribution network; and the availability of desirable store locations. Competitive conditions may limit our ability to maintain prices or may require us to reduce prices to retain business or marketplace share. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do, and are less leveraged than our business, and may therefore be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions. We expect existing competitors, business partners and new entrants to the beauty products distribution industry to constantly revise or improve their business models in response to challenges from competing businesses, including ours. If these competitors introduce changes or developments that we cannot meet in a timely or cost-effective manner, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, our industry is consolidating, which may give our competitors increased negotiating leverage and greater marketing resources, thereby providing corresponding competitive advantages over us. For instance, we may lose customers if our competitors that own national chains acquire additional salons that are BSG customers or if professional beauty supply manufacturers align themselves with other beauty product wholesale and retail suppliers who compete with BSG. For example our largest supplier, L'Oreal, has moved a material amount of revenue out of the BSG nationwide distribution network and into competitive regional distribution networks. More recently, L'Oreal has also announced the acquisition of distributors competitive with BSG in the southeastern U.S. as well as the west coast of the U.S. As a result, 16 L'Oreal is entering into direct competition with BSG and there can be no assurance that there will not be further revenue losses over time at BSG, due to potential losses of additional L'Oreal related products as well as from the increased competition from L'Oreal-affiliated distribution networks. In addition, L'Oreal has announced the acquisition of a supplier (Pureology) that does not currently do business with BSG. If L'Oreal acquired a supplier that did conduct business with BSG, we could lose that revenue as well. Such consolidation may increase competition from distribution channels related to suppliers and place more leverage in the hands of those suppliers to negotiate better margins on products sold in our stores. If we are unable to compete effectively in our marketplace or if competitors could divert our customers away from our stores, it could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and buying trends or manage our product lines and inventory commensurate with consumer demand. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely manner to changes in consumer spending patterns and preferences for beauty products. If we do not anticipate and respond to trends in the market for beauty products and changing consumer demands in a timely manner, our sales may decline significantly and we may be required to mark down certain products to sell the resulting excess inventory at prices which can be significantly lower than the normal retail or wholesale price, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we depend on our inventory management and information technology systems in order to replenish inventories and deliver products to store locations in response to customer demands. Any systems-related problems could result in difficulties satisfying the demands of customers which, in turn, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. We expect the aging baby-boomer population to drive future growth in professional beauty supply sales through an increase in the usage of hair color and hair-loss products. Additionally, we expect continuously changing fashion-related trends that drive new hair styles to result in continued demand for hair styling products. Changes in consumer tastes and fashion trends can have an impact on our financial performance. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to trends in the market for beauty products and changing consumer demands, our business could suffer. We depend upon manufacturers who may be unable to provide products of adequate quality or who may be unwilling to continue to supply products to us. We do not manufacture the brand name or exclusive label products we sell, and instead purchase our products from manufacturers and fillers. We depend on a limited number of manufacturers for a significant percentage of the products we sell. For fiscal year 2007, our two largest suppliers were Procter & Gamble Co., or P&G, and the Professional Products Division of L'Oreal USA S/D, Inc., or L'Oreal. BSG's largest supplier, L'Oreal, represented approximately 24% of BSG's total net sales in fiscal year 2007. In addition, since we purchase products from many manufacturers and fillers on an at-will basis, under contracts which can generally be terminated without cause upon 90 days notice or less or which expire without express rights of renewal, such manufacturers and fillers could discontinue sales to us at any time or upon the expiration of the distribution period. Some of our contracts with manufacturers may be terminated by such manufacturers if we fail to meet specified minimum purchase requirements. In such cases, we do not have contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products and vendors may change the terms upon which they sell. Infrequently, a supplier will seek to terminate a distribution relationship through legal action. For example, in April 2007 Farouk Systems, Inc. filed an action seeking a declaratory judgment that it is entitled to terminate a long-term distribution agreement with Armstrong McCall. Armstrong McCall is vigorously defending its rights under the agreement. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities or on acceptable terms in the future. 17 Changes in Sally Beauty Supply and BSG's relationships with suppliers occur often, and could positively or negatively impact the net sales and operating profits of both business segments. For example, net sales and operating profits of Sally Beauty Supply and BSG were negatively affected in fiscal year 2005 by the decision of certain suppliers of the BSG business to begin selling their products directly to salons in most markets. Subsequently, in fiscal year 2006 one of those suppliers agreed to have BSG once again sell its product lines in BSG stores. Some of our suppliers may seek to decrease their reliance on distribution intermediaries, including full-service/exclusive and open-line distributors like BSG and Sally Beauty Supply, by promoting their own distribution channels, as discussed above. These suppliers may offer advantages, such as discounted prices, when their products are purchased from distribution channels they control. If our access to supplier-provided products were to be diminished relative to our competitors, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Also, consolidation among suppliers may increase their negotiating leverage, thereby providing them with competitive advantages over us that may increase our costs and reduce our revenues, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. On December 19, 2006, we announced that: (i) BSG, other than its Armstrong McCall division, would not retain its rights to distribute the professional products of L'Oreal through its distributor sales consultants (effective January 30, 2007, with exclusivity ending December 31, 2006) or in its stores on an exclusive basis (effective January 1, 2007) in those geographic areas within the U.S. in which BSG had distribution rights; and (ii) BSG's Armstrong McCall division would not retain the rights to distribute Redken professional products through its franchises. In an effort to replace these rights, BSG entered into long-term agreements with L'Oreal under which, as of January 1, 2007, BSG had non-exclusive rights to distribute the same L'Oreal professional products in its stores that it previously had exclusive rights to in its stores and through its sales consultants. Armstrong McCall retained its exclusive rights to distribute Matrix professional products in its territories. Although we plan to mitigate the negative effects resulting from unfavorable changes in our relationships with suppliers, such as L'Oreal, there can be no assurance that our efforts will partially or completely offset the loss of these distribution rights. BSG's loss of distribution rights through its distributor sales consultants, as well as the loss of exclusive rights to distribute L'Oreal products in its stores, has also resulted in margin pressure on BSG's remaining L'Oreal revenues, and this pressure is currently projected to continue during fiscal year 2008. In addition, one of our key strategies in dealing with the loss of the L'Oreal distribution rights has been to attempt to shift a portion of the L'Oreal purchases by BSG customers previously served by the distributor sales consultants to our BSG stores. We did not significantly shift a portion of L'Oreal purchases by BSG customers previously served by the distribution sales consultants to stores during fiscal year 2007, and we no longer expect to do so in the future. As discussed above, L'Oreal is entering into direct competition with BSG and there can be no assurance that there will not be further revenue losses over time at BSG, due to potential losses of additional L'Oreal related products as well as from the increased competition from L'Oreal-affiliated distribution networks. For example, L'Oreal could attempt to terminate our contracts to carry certain of their products in BSG stores, which brought in revenues of approximately $121 million in U.S. sales for fiscal year 2007 and have expiration dates at the end of 2012. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the impact of these developments will not adversely impact revenue to a greater degree than we currently expect, or that our efforts to mitigate the impact of these developments will be successful. If the impact of these developments is greater than we expect or our efforts to mitigate the impact of these developments are not successful, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Manufacturers and fillers of beauty supply products are subject to certain risks that could adversely impact their ability to provide us with their products on a timely basis, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, union organizing activity, disruptions in logistics or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, and licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external factors 18 over which neither they nor we have control. In addition, our operating results depend to some extent on the orderly operation of our receiving and distribution process, which depends on manufacturers' adherence to shipping schedules and our effective management of our distribution facilities and capacity. If a material interruption of supply occurs, or a significant supplier ceases to supply us or materially decreases its supply to us, we may not be able to acquire products with similar quality and consumer brand name recognition as the products we currently sell, or acquire such products in sufficient quantities to meet our customers' demands or on favorable terms to our business, any of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not control the production process for the brand name and exclusive label products we sell. In many cases, we rely on representations of manufacturers and fillers about the products we purchase for resale regarding whether such products have been manufactured in accordance with applicable governmental regulations. We may not be able to identify a defect in a product we purchase from a manufacturer or filler before we offer such product for resale, which could result in fines or other actions by government regulators, product liability claims, product recalls, harm to our credibility, impairment of customer relationships or a decrease in the market acceptance of brand names, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If products sold by us are found to be defective in labeling or content, our credibility and that of the brands we sell may be harmed, market acceptance of our products may decrease and we may be exposed to liability in excess of our products liability insurance coverage and manufacturer indemnities. Our sale of certain products exposes us to potential product liability claims, recalls or other regulatory or enforcement actions initiated by federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities or through private causes of action. Such claims, recalls or actions could be based on allegations that, among other things, the products sold by us are misbranded, contain contaminants, provide inadequate instructions regarding their use or misuse, or include inadequate warnings concerning flammability or interactions with other substances. Claims against us could also arise as a result of the misuse by purchasers of such products or as a result of their use in a manner different than the intended use. We may be required to pay for losses or injuries actually or allegedly caused by the products we sell and to recall any product we sell that is alleged to be or is found to be defective. Any actual defects or allegations of defects in products sold by us could result in adverse publicity and harm our credibility, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we may have indemnification rights against the manufacturers of many of the products we distribute and rights as an "additional insured" under the manufacturer's insurance policies, it is not certain that any individual manufacturer or insurer will be financially solvent and capable of making payment to any party suffering loss or injury caused by products sold by us. Further, some types of actions and penalties, including many actions or penalties imposed by governmental agencies and punitive damages awards, may not be remediable through reliance on indemnity agreements or insurance. Furthermore, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of indemnity or insurance coverage or be excluded under the terms of an indemnity agreement or insurance policy. If we are forced to pay to satisfy such claims, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be adversely affected if we do not comply with laws and regulations or if we become subject to additional or more stringent laws and regulations. We are subject to a number of U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as the laws and regulations applicable in each other market in which we do business. These laws and regulations govern the composition, packaging, labeling and safety of the products we sell, the methods we use to sell these products and the methods we use to import these products. Non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations of governmental authorities, including the FDA and similar authorities in other jurisdictions, 19 by us or the manufacturers of the products sold by us could result in fines, product recalls and enforcement actions or otherwise restrict our ability to market certain products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The laws and regulations applicable to us or manufacturers of the products sold by us may become more stringent. Continued legal compliance could require the review and possible reformulation or relabeling of certain products, as well as the possible removal of some products from the market altogether. Legal compliance could also lead to considerably higher internal regulatory costs. Manufacturers may try to recover some or all of any increased costs of compliance by increasing the prices at which we purchase products and we may not be able to recover some or all of such increased cost in our own prices to our customers. We are also subject to state and local laws and regulations that affect our franchisor-franchisee relationships. Increased compliance costs and the loss of sales of certain products due to more stringent or new laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Laws and regulations impact our business in many areas that have no direct relation to the products we sell. For example, as a public company, we are subject to a number of laws and regulations related to the issuance and sale of our securities. Another area of intense regulation is that of the relationships we have with our employees, including compliance with many different wage/hour and nondiscrimination related regulatory schemes. Violation of any of the laws or regulations governing our business and the assertion of individual or class-wide claims could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product diversion could have an adverse impact on our revenues. The majority of the products that BSG sells, including those sold by our Armstrong McCall franchisees, are meant to be used exclusively by salons and individual salon professionals or are meant to be sold exclusively by the purchasers, such as salons, to their retail consumers. However, despite our efforts to prevent diversion, incidents of product diversion occur, whereby our products are sold by these purchasers (and possibly by other bulk purchasers such as franchisees) to wholesalers and general merchandise retailers. These retailers, in turn, sell such products to consumers. The diverted product may be old, tainted or damaged and sold through unapproved outlets, all of which could diminish the value of the particular brand. Diversion may result in lower net sales for BSG should consumers choose to purchase diverted products from retailers rather than purchasing from our customers, or choose other products altogether because of the perceived loss of brand prestige. Product diversion is generally prohibited under our supplier contracts and we may be under a contractual obligation to stop selling to salons, salon professionals and other bulk purchasers who engage in product diversion. If we fail to stop diversion as required (including known diversion of products sold through our Armstrong McCall franchisees), our supplier contracts could be adversely affected or even terminated. In addition, our investigation and enforcement of our anti-diversion policies may result in reduced sales to our customer base, thereby decreasing our revenues and profitability. BSG's financial results are affected by the financial results of BSG's franchised-based business (Armstrong McCall). BSG receives revenue from products purchased by Armstrong McCall franchisees. Accordingly, a portion of BSG's financial results is to an extent dependent upon the operational and financial success of these franchisees, including their implementation of BSG's strategic plans. If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for Armstrong McCall's franchisees, their financial results may worsen. When Armstrong McCall divests company-owned stores, Armstrong McCall is often required to remain responsible for lease payments for these stores to the extent that the relevant franchisees default on their leases. Additionally, if Armstrong McCall franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, or if Armstrong McCall fails to meet its obligations under its franchise agreements or vendor distribution agreements or is required to 20 restructure its franchise agreements in connection with such renewal, it could result in decreased revenues for BSG or legal issues with our franchisees or vendors. Our new Internet-based business may be unsuccessful or may cause internal channel conflict. We recently began offering some of our beauty products for sale through our website (www.sallybeauty.com). Therefore we will now encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced in Internet-based businesses, including risks related to our ability to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis and our ability to operate, support, expand and develop our Internet operations, our websites, and our software and other related operational systems. In addition, our new Internet-based business may conflict with the success of our Sally Beauty stores. For example, our Internet-based business may compete with our Sally Beauty stores for the same customers. Although we believe that our participation in both Internet-based and store-based sales is a distinct advantage for us due to synergies and the potential for new customers, customer conflicts between these offerings could create issues that have the potential to adversely affect our results of operations. For example, such conflict could cause some of our current or potential Internet customers to consider competing distributors of beauty products. We may not be able to successfully identify acquisition candidates or successfully complete desirable acquisitions. In the past several years, we have completed several significant acquisitions, the majority of which were for the BSG business. We intend to continue to pursue additional acquisitions in the future. Our business has in the past actively reviewed acquisition prospects that would complement our existing lines of business, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates. If suitable candidates are identified, sufficient funds may not be available to make such acquisitions. We compete against many other companies, some of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Increased competition for acquisition candidates could result in fewer acquisition opportunities and higher acquisition prices. In addition (as discussed below), the amount of equity that we can issue to make acquisitions or raise additional capital will be severely limited for at least two years following the Separation Transactions (or November 2008), which will make equity generally unavailable to fund acquisitions. Also, because we are highly leveraged and the agreements governing our indebtedness contain limits on our ability to incur additional debt, we may be unable to finance acquisitions that would increase our growth or improve our financial and competitive position. To the extent that debt financing is available to finance acquisitions, our net indebtedness could be increased as a result of any acquisitions. If we acquire any businesses in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business or have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Any acquisitions that we do make may be difficult to integrate profitably into our business and may entail numerous risks, including: •difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, stores or products, including the loss of key employees from acquired businesses; •difficulties and costs associated with integrating and evaluating the information systems and/or internal control systems of acquired businesses; •expenses associated with the amortization of identifiable intangible assets; •problems retaining key technical, operational and administrative personnel; •diversion of management's attention from our core business, including loss of management focus on marketplace developments; •complying with foreign regulatory requirements, including multi-jurisdictional competition rules; 21 •enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; •adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, including the potential loss of suppliers of the acquired businesses; •operating inefficiencies and negative impact on profitability; •entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and •those related to general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by U.S. companies in particular. In addition, during the acquisition process, we may fail or be unable to discover some of the liabilities of businesses that we acquire. These liabilities may result from a prior owner's noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. Acquired businesses may also not perform as we expect or we may not be able to obtain financial improvements in acquired businesses that we may expect. If we are unable to profitably open and operate new stores, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our future growth strategy depends in part on our ability to open and profitably operate new stores in existing and additional geographic markets. The capital requirements to open a U.S. based Sally Beauty Supply or BSG store, excluding inventory, average approximately $60,000 and $75,000, respectively. However, we may not be able to open all of the new stores we plan to open and any new stores we open may not be profitable, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. There are several factors that could affect our ability to open and profitably operate new stores, including: •the inability to identify and acquire suitable sites or to negotiate acceptable leases for such sites; •proximity to existing stores that may reduce new stores' sales or the sales of existing stores; •difficulties in adapting our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores; •the potential inability to obtain adequate financing to fund expansion because of our high leverage and limitations on our ability to issue equity for at least two years following the Separation Transactions, among other things; •increased (and sometimes unanticipated) costs associated with opening stores in new international markets; •difficulties in obtaining any needed governmental and third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate additional stores; and •potential limitations on capital, expenditures which may be included in financing documents that we enter into. We are not certain that our ongoing cost control plans will continue to be successful. Our business strategy depends, to a substantial degree, on continuing to control or reduce operating expenses. In furtherance of this strategy, we have engaged in ongoing activities to reduce or control costs. These activities include right-sizing the BSG business (including some targeted reductions-in-force) and maximizing the efficiency of our structure, including through the implementation of a two-year, $19.0 million capital spending program in fiscal years 2007 and 2008 to consolidate BSG warehouses and reduce administrative expenses related to BSG's distribution network optimization program. We cannot assure you that our efforts will result in the increased profitability, cost savings or other benefits that we expect. 22 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, specifically our trademarks, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The success of our business depends to a certain extent upon the value associated with our intellectual property rights. We own certain trademark and brand name rights used in connection with our business including, but not limited to, "Sally," "Sally Beauty," "Sally Beauty Supply," "Sally ProCard," "BSG," "CosmoProf," "Armstrong McCall," "ion," "Salon Services" and "Beauty Club." We protect our intellectual property rights through a variety of methods, including trademarks which are registered or legally protected in the U.S., Canada and other countries throughout the world in which our business operates. We also rely on trade secret laws, in addition to confidentiality agreements with vendors, employees, consultants, and others who have access to our proprietary information. While we intend to vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement, we may not be successful in doing so. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. The costs required to protect our intellectual property rights and trademarks are expected to continue to be substantial. Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, and economic risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to grow or maintain our current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with our international operations. These risks include: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; trade barriers to some international markets; economic and currency fluctuations in specific markets; potential difficulties in enforcing contracts, protecting assets, including intellectual property, and collecting receivables in certain foreign jurisdictions; potential tax liabilities associated with repatriating funds from foreign operations; and difficulties and costs of staffing, managing and accounting for foreign operations. We may be adversely affected by any disruption in our information technology systems. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. We rely upon such information technology systems to manage and replenish inventory, to fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis, to coordinate our sales activities across all of our products and services and to coordinate our administrative activities. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged time period (arising from, for example, system capacity limits from unexpected increases in our volume of business, outages or delays in our service) could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. Our systems might be damaged or interrupted by natural or man-made events or by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions affecting the global Internet. There can be no assurance that such delays, problems, or costs will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As our operations grow in both size and scope, we will continuously need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure while maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before the volume of our business increases, with no assurance that the volume of business will increase. In particular, during fiscal year 2008 we will be upgrading our financial reporting system, our distribution systems (in connection with our capital spending program to consolidate warehouses, as discussed below), implementing new warehouse systems at our Armstrong McCall warehouse and implementing a new point-of-sale system for tracking customer sales. These and any other required upgrades to our systems and information technology, or new technology, now and in the future, will require that our management and resources be diverted from our core business to assist in compliance with those requirements. Since our systems are proprietary, our options are limited in seeking third-party help with the operation and upgrade of these systems. There can be no assurance that the time and resources our management will need to devote to these upgrades, service outages or delays due to the installation of any new or upgraded technology (and customer issues therewith), or the impact on the 23 reliability of our data from any new or upgraded technology will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters or acts of terrorism could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters or acts of terrorism could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the temporary closure of stores or distribution centers, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long term disruption in the supply of products (or a substantial increase in the cost of those products) from some local suppliers, the temporary disruption in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers (or a substantial increase in the cost of those deliveries), the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores and/or the temporary reduction in visits to stores by customers. If one or more natural disasters or acts of terrorism were to impact our business, we could, among other things, incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing products to stores. Furthermore, insurance costs associated with our business may rise significantly in the event of a large scale natural disaster or act of terrorism. Risks Relating to Our Substantial Indebtedness We have substantial debt and may incur substantial additional debt, which could adversely affect our financial health, our ability to obtain financing in the future and our ability to react to changes in our business. In connection with the Separation Transactions, certain of our subsidiaries, including Sally Holdings LLC, which we refer to as Sally Holdings, incurred approximately $1,850.0 million in debt. As of September 30, 2007, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $1,775.7 million, including capital lease obligations, of outstanding debt, and a total debt to equity ratio of -2.31:1.00. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; •restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to us, which could limit our ability to conduct repurchases of our own equity securities or make dividends to our stockholders, thereby limiting our ability to enhance stockholder value through such transactions; •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations because a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, including borrowings under our senior secured term loan facilities and our asset-backed senior secured loan facility, which we refer to collectively as the senior secured credit facilities; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with proportionately less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates and that, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; •limit our ability to refinance indebtedness or cause the associated costs of such refinancing to increase; and 24 •limit our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures, or prevent us from carrying out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins or our business. Any of the foregoing impacts of our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt, including secured debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the instruments governing our indebtedness do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. As of September 30, 2007, our senior credit facilities provided us commitments for additional borrowings of up to approximately $334.6 million under the asset-backed senior secured loan, or ABL, facility, subject to borrowing base limitations. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase and we may not be able to meet all our debt obligations. In addition, the agreements governing our senior credit facilities as well as the indentures governing our senior notes and senior subordinated notes, which we refer to collectively as the Notes, do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business. The senior secured term loan facilities, which we refer to as the Term Loans, contain covenants that, among other things, restrict Sally Holdings' and its subsidiaries' ability to: •dispose of assets; •incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees of additional indebtedness); •pay dividends, repurchase stock or make other distributions; •make voluntary prepayments on the Notes or make amendments to the terms thereof; •prepay certain other debt or amend specific debt agreements; •create liens on assets; •make investments (including joint ventures); •engage in mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of Sally Holdings' assets; •engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and •permit restrictions on Sally Holdings' subsidiaries ability to pay dividends. The ABL facility contains covenants that, among other things, restrict Sally Holdings' and its subsidiaries' ability to: •change their line of business; •engage in certain mergers, consolidations and transfers of all or substantially all of their assets; •make certain dividends, stock repurchases and other distributions; •make acquisitions of all of the business or assets of, or stock representing beneficial ownership of, any person; •dispose of certain assets; •make voluntary prepayments on the Notes or make amendments to the terms thereof; 25 •prepay certain other debt or amend specific debt agreements; •change the fiscal year of Sally Holdings or its direct parent; and •create or incur negative pledges. The Term Loans contain a requirement that Sally Holdings not exceed a maximum ratio of net senior secured debt to consolidated EBITDA (as those terms are defined in the relevant credit agreement). In addition, if Sally Holdings fails to maintain a specified minimum level of borrowing capacity under the ABL facility, it will then be obligated to maintain a specified fixed-charge coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which in turn will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will also depend substantially on the pricing of our products, our success at implementing cost reduction initiatives and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. The indentures governing the senior notes and the senior subordinated notes, which we refer to collectively as the Notes, also contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of Sally Holdings and its restricted subsidiaries to: •dispose of assets; •incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees of additional indebtedness); •pay dividends, repurchase stock or make other distributions; •prepay subordinated debt; •create liens on assets (which, in the case of the senior subordinated notes, would be limited in applicability to liens securing pari passu or subordinated indebtedness); •make investments (including joint ventures); •engage in mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of Sally Holdings' assets; •engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and •permit restrictions on Sally Holdings' subsidiaries ability to pay dividends. The restrictions in the indentures governing our Notes and the terms of our senior credit facilities may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot assure you that our subsidiaries who are borrowers under these agreements will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason they are unable to comply with these agreements, or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the senior credit facilities and the indentures for the Notes may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under either the senior credit facilities or the indentures that would permit the applicable lenders or note holders, as the case may be, to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay debt, lenders having secured obligations, such as the lenders under the senior credit facilities, could proceed against the collateral securing the debt. In any such case, our subsidiaries may be unable to borrow under the senior credit facilities and may not be able to repay the amounts due under the Term Loans and the Notes. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. 26 Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to service all of our debt and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depend on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance our obligations under, our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the financial and business factors, many of which may be beyond our control, described under "—Risks Relating to Our Business" above. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, particularly because of our high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt, as well as prevailing market conditions. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior credit facilities and the indentures governing the Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions. We cannot assure you we will be able to consummate those sales, or if we do, what the timing of the sales will be or whether the proceeds that we realize will be adequate to meet debt service obligations when due. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. A significant portion of our outstanding debt, including under our senior credit facilities, bears interest at variable rates. As a result, an increase in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or a decrease in our creditworthiness, would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. The impact of such an increase would be more significant for us than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial debt. A decrease in interest rates would increase our interest expense (due to our interest rate swaps) and could reduce our profitability. We have entered into two interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $150.0 million and $350.0 million. These interest rate swap agreements relate to $500.0 million of the $1,070.0 million term loans A and B due in fiscal years 2013 and 2014, respectively, to manage our risk associated with changing interest rates. Please see Note 13 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" in "Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this report and "Item 7A—Quantitative & Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk—Interest rate risk" for a discussion of interest rate swap agreements. We utilize interest rate swaps to manage our financial risk associated with changing interest rates and account for them under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, or SFAS 133. SFAS 133 requires that all derivatives be marked to market (fair value). Our current interest rate swap agreements do not qualify as hedges and therefore, the change in fair value of the interest rate swap agreements, which are adjusted quarterly, are recorded in the consolidated statements of earnings. The marked to market impact of the swap agreements on interest expense was an increase of approximately $3.0 million for fiscal year 2007. Future changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements will continue to increase or decrease our interest expense and could have the potential to affect our profitability. 27 Risks Relating to the Tax Treatment of Our Separation from Alberto-Culver and Relating To Our Largest Stockholder If the share distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock in the transactions separating us from Alberto-Culver did not constitute a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, or if we became liable for additional taxes owed by Alberto-Culver, then we may be responsible for payment of significant U.S. federal income taxes. The following discussion describes the risk that the share distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock in the Separation Transactions may have triggered significant tax liabilities for us, possibly resulting in a material adverse effect on us. In connection with the share distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock in the separation, we received (i) a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and (ii) an opinion of Sidley Austin LLP, counsel to Alberto-Culver, in each case, to the effect that the transactions qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code and a distribution eligible for non-recognition under Sections 355(a) and 361(c) of the Code. The private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel were based, in part, on assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by, among others, Alberto-Culver, us and representatives of Mrs. Carol L. Bernick, Mr. Leonard H. Lavin and certain of our other stockholders to whom we refer as the Lavin family stockholders, as requested by the IRS or counsel, which, if incorrect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by the IRS and counsel. The private letter ruling also did not address certain material legal issues that could affect its conclusions, and reserved the right of the IRS to raise such issues upon a subsequent audit. Opinions of counsel neither bind the IRS or any court, nor preclude the IRS from adopting a contrary position. If the Alberto-Culver share distribution were not to qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code, we would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the Alberto-Culver common stock distributed to our stockholders over our tax basis in the Alberto-Culver common stock. Even if the Alberto-Culver share distribution otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code, it would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to us if there is an acquisition of our stock or stock of Alberto-Culver as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Alberto-Culver share distribution and that results in an acquisition of 50% or more of Alberto-Culver's or our outstanding common stock. In the event that we recognize a taxable gain in connection with the Alberto-Culver share distribution (either (i) because the Alberto-Culver share distribution did not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code or (ii) because of an acquisition by CDR Investors of 50% or more of Alberto-Culver or our outstanding common stock as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Alberto-Culver share distribution), the taxable gain recognized by us would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to us. Under the Code, we would be jointly and severally liable for these taxes for which Alberto-Culver may be required to indemnify us under the tax allocation agreement, and there can be no assurance that Alberto-Culver would be able to fulfill its obligations under the tax allocation agreement if Alberto-Culver was determined to be responsible for these taxes thereunder. For purposes of determining whether the distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock to our stockholders in connection with the Alberto-Culver share distribution is disqualified as tax-free to us under the rules described in the second preceding paragraph, any acquisitions by CDR Investors of our stock or the stock of Alberto-Culver within two years before or after the Alberto-Culver share distribution are presumed to be part of a plan, although the parties may be able to rebut that presumption. For purposes of this test, the acquisition by CDR Investors, of 48% of our outstanding common stock on an undiluted basis that occurred in connection with the Separation Transactions will be treated as part of such a plan or series of transactions. Thus, a relatively minor additional change in the ownership of our common stock could trigger a significant tax liability for us under Section 355 of the Code. 28 The process for determining whether a prohibited change in control has occurred under the rules is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. If Alberto-Culver does not carefully monitor its, or we do not carefully monitor our, compliance with these rules, this might inadvertently cause or permit a prohibited change in the ownership of us or of Alberto-Culver to occur, thereby triggering Alberto-Culver's or our respective obligations to indemnify the other pursuant to the tax allocation agreement, which would have a material adverse effect on us and/or Alberto-Culver. As the successor entity to Alberto-Culver after the separation, we rely upon the prior-year federal income tax returns of Alberto-Culver, and accounting methods established therein, for certain calculations that affect our current U.S. federal income tax liability. If any of the above events occur, we will be jointly and severally liable for these taxes, and there can be no assurance that Alberto-Culver would be able to fulfill its indemnification obligations to us under the tax allocation agreement if Alberto-Culver was determined to be responsible for these taxes thereunder. In addition, these mutual indemnity obligations could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire us. Actions taken by the Lavin family stockholders or by the CDR investors could adversely affect the tax-free nature of the share distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock in connection with the transactions separating us from Alberto-Culver. Sales and/or acquisitions by the Lavin family stockholders of our common stock or Alberto-Culver common stock may adversely affect the tax-free nature of the share distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock in the Separation Transactions. First, with certain exceptions, sales by the Lavin family stockholders of our common stock or Alberto-Culver common stock at any time after the Separation Transactions might be considered evidence that the share distribution was used principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits, particularly if the selling stockholder were found to have an intent to effect such sale at the time of the share distribution. If the IRS successfully asserted that the share distribution was used principally as such a device, the share distribution would not qualify as a tax-free distribution, and thus would be taxable to us. Second, with certain exceptions, if any of the Lavin family stockholders were to sell an amount of our common stock that it received in connection with the Separation Transactions (or to acquire additional shares of our common stock) within the two year period following completion of the Alberto-Culver share distribution, and that amount of stock, if added to the common stock comprising approximately 48% of our outstanding common stock on an undiluted basis that was acquired by CDR Investors were to equal or exceed 50% of our outstanding common stock, as determined under the Code and applicable Treasury regulations, a deemed acquisition of control of us in connection with the Alberto-Culver share distribution would be presumed. If this presumption were not rebutted, we would be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, which, if not reimbursed by Alberto-Culver, would have a material adverse effect on us. Similarly, acquisitions by the CDR Investors or their affiliates of our common stock may cause a deemed acquisition of control of us in connection with the Alberto-Culver share distribution. We are affected by significant restrictions on our ability to issue equity securities following completion of the transactions separating us from Alberto-Culver. Because of certain limitations imposed by the Code and regulations thereunder, the amount of equity that we can issue to make acquisitions or raise additional capital is severely limited and will continue to be so for at least two years following completion of the Separation Transactions, or November 2008. As a result, we may not be able to raise even a small amount of equity capital during that period. These limitations may restrict our ability to carry out our business objectives and to take advantage of opportunities that could be favorable to our business. In addition, because we, through our subsidiaries, incurred approximately $1,850.0 million in debt in connection with those transactions, and the instruments governing our indebtedness contain limits on our ability to incur additional debt, our inability to raise even a small 29 amount of equity capital at a time when we need additional capital could have a material adverse effect on our ability to service our debt and operate our business. The voting power of our largest stockholder may discourage third party acquisitions of us at a premium. CDRS, our largest stockholder, owns approximately 48% of our outstanding common stock on an undiluted basis. Pursuant to the stockholders agreement entered into by us, the CDR Investors and the Lavin family stockholders, which we refer to as the Stockholders Agreement, CDRS has designated five of our initial eleven directors, as well as the Chairman of our Board of Directors, and CDRS' rights to nominate certain numbers of directors will continue so long as it owns specified percentages of our common stock. The CDR Investors' ownership of our common stock may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of us and may preclude holders of our common stock from receiving any premium above market price for their shares that may otherwise be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of us. The interests of our largest stockholder may differ from the interests of other holders of our common stock. CDRS, our largest stockholder, owns approximately 48% of our outstanding common stock on an undiluted basis. Pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement, CDRS has designated five of our initial eleven directors and CDRS' rights to nominate certain numbers of directors will continue so long as it owns specified percentages of our common stock, as discussed above. In addition, the current Chairman of our Board of Directors is affiliated with CDRS. The interests of CDRS may differ from those of other holders of our common stock in material respects. For example, CDRS may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings, re-financings, stockholder dividends or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its overall equity portfolio or the short-term value of their investment in us, even though such transactions might involve substantial risks to holders of our common stock. The manager of CDRS' ultimate parent is in the business of making investments in companies, and may from time to time in the future, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers of us or our customers. Additionally, CDRS may determine that the disposition of some or all of its interests in us would be beneficial to it at a time when such disposition could be detrimental to us and/or to the other holders of our common stock. Moreover, the ownership by CDRS of approximately 48% of our outstanding common stock may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of us and may preclude holders of our common stock from receiving any premium above market price for their shares that may otherwise be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of us. 30 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 