Risk Factors—We depend upon manufacturers who may be unable to provide products of adequate quality or who may be unwilling to continue to supply products to us.” However, we believe that we can be successful in mitigating negative effects resulting from unfavorable changes in the relationships 10 Table of Contents between us and our suppliers through, among other things, the development of new or expanded supplier relationships. On December 19, 2006, we announced that (1) BSG, other than its Armstrong-McCall division, will not retain its rights to distribute the professional products of L’Oreal through its distributor sales consultants (effective January 30, 2007, with exclusivity ending December 31, 2006) or in its stores on an exclusive basis (effective January 1, 2007) in those geographic areas within the U.S. in which BSG currently has distribution rights, and (2) BSG’s Armstrong McCall division will not retain the rights to distribute Redken professional products through distributor sales consultants or its stores. In replacement of these rights, BSG entered into long-term agreements with L’Oreal under which, as of January 1, 2007, BSG will have non-exclusive rights to distribute the same L’Oreal professional products in its stores that it previously had exclusive rights to in its stores and through its sales consultants. Armstrong McCall will retain its exclusive rights to distribute Matrix professional products in its territories. Distribution As of September 30, 2006, we operated 22 distribution centers, 6 of which serviced Sally Beauty Supply and 16 of which serviced BSG. Our purchasing and distribution system is designed to minimize the delivered cost of merchandise and maximize the level of merchandise in-stock in stores. This distribution system also allows for monitoring of delivery times and maintenance of appropriate inventory levels. Product deliveries are typically made to our stores on a weekly basis. Each distribution center has a quality control department that monitors products received from suppliers. We utilize proprietary software systems to provide computerized warehouse locator and inventory support. Management Information Systems Our management information systems provide order processing, accounting and management information for the marketing, distribution and store operations functions of our business. Most of these systems have been developed internally. The information gathered by the management information systems supports automatic replenishment of in-store inventory and provides support for product purchase decisions. Employees In our domestic and foreign operations, we had approximately 15,800 full-time equivalent employees as of September 30, 2006 consisting of approximately 10,500 hourly personnel and 5,300 salaried employees. At September 30, 2005, we had approximately 15,000 full-time equivalent employees. Certain subsidiaries in Mexico have collective bargaining agreements, covering warehouse and store personnel, which expire at various times over the next several years. We believe we have good relationships with our employees. Management For information concerning our directors and executive officers, see “Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant” in Item 10 of this report. Regulation We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations, which historically have not had a material effect on our business. For example, in the United States, most of the products sold and the content and methods of advertising and marketing utilized are regulated by a host of federal agencies, including, in each case, one of more of the following: the Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Trade Commission and the Consumer Products Safety Commission. The transportation and disposal of many of our products are also subject to federal regulation. State 11 Table of Contents and local agencies regulate many aspects of our business. In markets outside of the United States, regulation is also focused and comprehensive. The franchisor-franchisee relationship poses a specific set of regulatory issues. We are subject to the regulation of offering and sale of franchises in the United States and Mexico. The applicable laws and regulations affect our business practices, as franchisor, in a number of ways, including restrictions placed upon the offering, renewal, termination and disapproval of assignment of franchises. To date, these laws and regulations have not had a material effect upon operations. The FTC is considering major revisions to its regulations governing the offer and sale of franchises in the U.S., although to date, these revisions have not been adopted. Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property Rights Our trademarks, certain of which are material to our business, are registered or legally protected in the United States, Canada and other countries throughout the world in which we operate. We and our subsidiaries own over 200 trademarks in the United States. We also rely upon trade secrets and know-how to develop and maintain our competitive position. We protect intellectual property rights through a variety of methods, including reliance upon trademark, patent and trade secret laws, in addition to confidentiality agreements with many vendors, employees, consultants and others who have access to our proprietary information. The duration of our trademark registrations is generally 10, 15 or 20 years, depending on the country in which a mark is registered, and generally the registrations can be renewed. The scope and duration of intellectual property protection varies by jurisdiction and by individual product. Access to Public Filings Our annual report on Form 10-K, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports are, and, when filed with the SEC our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and any amendment to such reports will be, available, without charge, on our website, www.sallybeautyholdings.com, as soon as reasonably possible after they are filed electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act. We will provide copies of such reports to any person, without charge, upon written request to our office of Investor Relations by writing to: our Investor Relations Department at 3001 Colorado Blvd, Denton, TX 76210. The information found on our website shall not be considered to be part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. In addition to our website, you may read and copy public reports we file with or furnish to the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains our reports, proxy and information statements, and other information that we file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following describes risks that we believe to be material to our business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. There may be additional risks, of which we are not aware or that we do not believe to be material, that could materially and adversely affect our business. This report also contains forward-looking statements and the following risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to Our Business We have no history as a stand-alone company and may be unable to make the changes necessary to operate effectively. We recently separated from Alberto-Culver and became an independent publicly-traded company. There can be no assurance that the separation from Alberto-Culver and the resulting absence of its general administrative assistance will not have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Apart from a limited 12 Table of Contents number of services to be provided to us on a transitional basis, Alberto-Culver will have no obligation to provide financial, operational or organizational assistance to us or any of our subsidiaries. Our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we are subject following our separation from Alberto-Culver. Our financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of Alberto-Culver, and the reporting and control systems were appropriate for those of subsidiaries of a public company. However, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries was directly subject to reporting and other requirements of the Exchange Act. As an independent publicly-traded company, we are now directly subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act. These reporting and other obligations place significant demands on the management and administrative and operational resources, including accounting resources, of us and our subsidiaries. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Under the SEC rules and regulations, as well as those of the New York Stock Exchange, our compliance costs have increased. In addition, as a public company we are subject to rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require us to include in our annual report on Form 10-K our management’s report on, and assessment of, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and the effectiveness of such internal controls. These requirements will first apply to our annual report for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007. If we fail to properly assess and/or achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to help prevent financial fraud. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our securities. To comply with these requirements, we and our subsidiaries are upgrading our systems, including information technology, implementing additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and have hired additional legal, accounting and finance staff. If additional upgrades to our financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology and procedures are required under the financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies, now and in the future, our management and resources may need to be devoted to assist in compliance with those requirements. Our historical consolidated financial information contained in this report does not represent our future financial position, results of operations or cash flows nor does it reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as a separate public company during the periods presented. Our historical consolidated financial information included in this report is not representative of our future financial position, results of operations or cash flows nor does it reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods presented. This is primarily because: • Our historical consolidated financial information reflects allocation of expenses from Alberto-Culver. Those allocations may be different from the comparable expenses we would have incurred as a separate company. • Our working capital requirements historically have been satisfied as part of Alberto-Culver’s corporate-wide cash management policies. In connection with the separation from Alberto-Culver, we incurred a large amount of indebtedness and assumed significant debt service costs. As a result, our cost of debt and capitalization are significantly different from that reflected in our historical consolidated financial information. • As a result of our separation from Alberto-Culver, there have been significant changes in our cost structure, including the costs of establishing an appropriate accounting and reporting system, debt service obligations and other costs of being a stand-alone company. 13 Table of Contents We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of our separation from Alberto-Culver on a timely basis or at all. Our success as an independent publicly-traded company depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our separation from Alberto-Culver. These anticipated benefits include increased brand and product recognition as a result of our increased ability to engage in more aggressive marketing and advertising campaigns following the elimination of difficulties arising from our businesses’ competition with the customers and suppliers of Alberto-Culver’s consumer products business and the potential for increased operating earnings of our business expected to result from allowing us to focus our attention and resources on our business and customers. We cannot assure you these benefits will occur or that we will be able to achieve growth in the future comparable to our businesses’ recent historical sales and earnings growth. As a separate entity, we will not enjoy all of the benefits of scale that Alberto-Culver achieved with the combination of the consumer products business and our business. Prior to our separation from Alberto-Culver, Alberto-Culver benefited from the scope and scale of the consumer products business and our business in certain areas, including, among other things, risk management, employee benefits, regulatory compliance, administrative services and human resources. Our loss of these benefits as a consequence of our separation from Alberto-Culver could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, it is possible that some costs will be greater for us than they were for Alberto-Culver due to the loss of volume discounts and the position of being a large customer to service providers and vendors. In addition, the separation eliminated Alberto-Culver’s diversification that resulted from operating the consumer products business of Alberto-Culver alongside our distribution business and tended to mitigate financial and operations volatility. As a result, we may experience increased volatility in terms of cash flow, operating results, working capital and financing requirements. We are a holding company, with no operations of our own, and we depend on our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company and do not have any material assets or operations other than ownership of equity interests of our subsidiaries. Our operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries and our ability to generate cash to meet our obligations or to pay dividends is highly dependent on the earnings of, and receipt of funds from, our subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans. However, none of our subsidiaries are obligated to make funds available to us for payment of dividends. Further, the terms of our subsidiaries’ debt agreements significantly restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to us. Furthermore, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future that may severely restrict or prohibit our subsidiaries from making distributions, paying dividends or making loans to us. The beauty products distribution industry is highly competitive. The beauty products distribution industry is highly fragmented and there are few significant barriers to entry into the markets for most of the types of products and services we sell. Sally Beauty Supply competes with other domestic and international beauty product wholesale and retail outlets, including local and regional cash-and-carry beauty supply stores, professional-only beauty supply stores, salons, mass merchandisers, drug stores and supermarkets, as well as sellers on the Internet and salons retailing hair care items. BSG competes with other domestic and international beauty product wholesale and retail suppliers and with manufacturers selling professional beauty products directly to salons and individual salon professionals. The primary competitive factors in the beauty products distribution industry are the price at which we purchase products from manufacturers, quality, perceived value, consumer brand name recognition, packaging and mix of the products we sell; customer service; the efficiency of our distribution network; and the availability of desirable store locations. Competitive conditions may limit our ability to maintain prices or require us to reduce prices to retain business or market share. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do, and are less leveraged than our business, and may therefore be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions. In addition, we may lose customers if our competitors that own national chains acquire additional salons that are BSG customers or if professional beauty supply manufacturers align themselves with other beauty product wholesale and retail suppliers who compete with 14 Table of Contents BSG. For instance, in 2006 L’Oreal acquired a 30% stake in Beauty Alliance, one of our principal competitors. Our failure to continue to compete effectively in our markets could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and buying trends or manage our product lines and inventory commensurate with consumer demand. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products and services that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers. If we do not anticipate and respond to changes in customer preferences in a timely manner, our sales may decline significantly and we may be required to mark down certain products to sell the resulting excess inventory at prices which can be significantly lower than the normal retail or wholesale price, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we depend on our inventory management and information technology systems in order to replenish inventories and deliver products to store locations in response to customer demands. Any systems-related problems could result in difficulties satisfying the demands of customers which, in turn, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. We depend upon manufacturers who may be unable to provide products of adequate quality or who may be unwilling to continue to supply products to us. We do not manufacture the brand name or private label products we sell, and instead purchase our products from manufacturers and fillers. We depend on a limited number of manufacturers for a significant percentage of the products we sell. Sally Beauty Supply’s five largest suppliers provided it with 40.9% and 41.3% of the products Sally Beauty Supply purchased in fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively. BSG’s five largest suppliers provided it with 59.2% and 59.7% of the products BSG purchased in fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, since we purchase products from many manufacturers and fillers on an at-will basis, under contracts which can be terminated without cause upon 90 days notice or less or which expire without express rights of renewal, such manufacturers and fillers could discontinue sales to us at any time or upon the expiration of the distribution period. Some of our contracts with manufacturers may be terminated by such manufacturers if we fail to meet specified minimum purchase requirements. In such cases, we do not have contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products and vendors may change the terms upon which they sell. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities or on acceptable terms in the future. Changes in Sally Beauty Supply and BSG’s relationships with suppliers occur often, and could positively or negatively impact the net sales and operating profits of both business segments. For example, net sales and operating profits of Sally Beauty Supply and BSG were negatively affected in fiscal year 2005 by the decision of certain suppliers of the BSG business to begin selling their products directly to salons in most markets. Subsequently, in fiscal year 2006 one of those suppliers agreed to have BSG once again sell its product lines in BSG stores. In addition, some of our suppliers may seek to decrease their reliance on distribution intermediaries, including full service/exclusive and open-line distributors like BSG and Sally Beauty Supply, by promoting their own distribution channels. If our access to supplier-provided products were to be diminished relative to our competitors our business could be materially and adversely affected. Also, consolidation among suppliers may increase their negotiating leverage, thereby providing them with competitive advantages over us that may increase our costs and reduce our revenues, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. On December 19, 2006, we announced that (1) BSG, other than its Armstrong-McCall division, will not retain its rights to distribute the professional products of L’Oreal through its distributor sales consultants (effective January 30, 2007, with exclusivity ending December 31, 2006) or in its stores on an exclusive basis (effective January 1, 2007) in those geographic areas within the U.S. in which BSG currently has distribution rights, and (2) BSG’s Armstrong McCall division will not retain the rights to distribute Redken professional products through distributor sales consultants or its stores. In replacement of these rights, BSG entered into long-term agreements with L’Oreal under which, as of January 1, 2007, BSG will have non-exclusive rights to distribute the same L’Oreal professional products in its stores that it previously had exclusive rights to in its stores and through its sales consultants. Armstrong McCall will retain its exclusive rights to distribute Matrix professional products in its territories. We expect the impact of the loss of BSG’s exclusive rights to distribute L’Oreal professional products in 15 Table of Contents BSG stores and by its distributor sales consultants to negatively impact our consolidated revenue by approximately $110 million during the last nine months of our 2007 fiscal year. This number includes anticipated ancillary impact on revenue from other products that may be indirectly affected by these developments. We cannot assure you that the impact of these developments will not adversely impact revenue to a greater degree than we currently expect, or that our efforts to mitigate the impact of these developments will be successful. If the impact of these developments is greater than we expect or our efforts to mitigate the impact of these developments are not successful, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Manufacturers and fillers of beauty supply products are subject to certain risks that could adversely impact their ability to provide us with their products on a timely basis, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, union organizing activity, disruptions in logistics or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, and licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external factors over which neither they nor we have control. In addition, our operating results depend to some extent on the orderly operation of our receiving and distribution process, which depends on manufacturers’ adherence to shipping schedules and our effective management of our distribution facilities and capacity. If a material interruption of supply occurs, or a significant supplier ceases to supply us or materially decreases its supply to us, we may not be able to acquire products with similar quality and consumer brand name recognition as the products we currently sell, or acquire such products in sufficient quantities to meet our customers’ demands or on favorable terms to our business, any of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not control the production process for the brand name and private label products we sell. In many cases, we rely on representations of manufacturers and fillers about the products we purchase for resale regarding whether such products have been manufactured in accordance with applicable governmental regulations. We may not be able to identify a defect in a product we purchase from a manufacturer or filler before we offer such product for resale, which could result in fines or other actions by government regulators, product liability claims, product recalls, harm to our credibility, impairment of customer relationships or a decrease in the market acceptance of brand names, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If products sold by us are found to be defective in labeling or content, our credibility and that of the brands we sell may be harmed, market acceptance of our products may decrease and we may be exposed to liability in excess of our products liability insurance coverage and manufacturer indemnities. Our sale of certain products exposes us to potential product liability claims, recalls or other regulatory or enforcement actions initiated by federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities or through private causes of action. Such claims, recalls or actions could be based on allegations that, among other things, the products sold by us are misbranded, contain contaminants, provide inadequate instructions regarding their use or misuse, or include inadequate warnings concerning flammability or interactions with other substances. Claims against us could also arise as a result of the misuse by purchasers of such products or as a result of their use in a manner different than the intended use. We may be required to pay for losses or injuries actually or allegedly caused by the products we sell and to recall any product we sell that is alleged to be or is found to be defective. Any actual defects or allegations of defects in products sold by us could result in adverse publicity and harm our credibility, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we may have indemnification rights against the manufacturers of many of the products we distribute and rights as an “additional insured” under the manufacturer’s insurance policies, it is not certain that any individual manufacturer or insurer will be financially solvent and capable of making payment to any party suffering loss or injury caused by products sold by us. Further, some types of actions and penalties, including many actions or penalties imposed by governmental agencies and punitive damages awards, may not be remediable through reliance on indemnity agreements or insurance. Furthermore, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of indemnity or insurance coverage or be excluded under the terms of an indemnity agreement or insurance policy. If we are forced to pay to satisfy such claims, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected if we do not comply with laws and regulations or if we become subject to additional or more stringent laws and regulations. We are subject to a number of U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as the laws and regulations applicable in each other market in which we do business. These laws and regulations govern the composition, packaging, labeling and safety of the products we sell and the methods we use to sell the products. Non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations of governmental authorities, including the Food and Drug Administration and similar authorities in other jurisdictions, by us or the manufacturers of the products sold by us could result in fines, product recalls and enforcement actions or otherwise restrict our ability to market certain products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The laws and regulations applicable to us or manufacturers of the products sold by us may become more stringent. Continued legal compliance could require the review and possible reformulation or relabeling of certain products, as well as the possible removal of some products from the market altogether. Legal compliance could also lead to considerably higher internal regulatory costs. Manufacturers may try to recover some or all of any increased costs of compliance by increasing the prices at which we purchase products and we may not be able to recover some or all of such increased cost in our own prices to our customers. We are also subject to state and local laws that affect our franchisor-franchisee relationships. Increased compliance costs and the loss of sales of certain products due to more stringent or new laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Laws and regulations impact our business in many areas that have no direct relation to the products we sell. For example, as a public company, we are subject to a number of laws and regulations related to the issuance and sale of our securities. Another area of intense regulation is that of the relationships we have with our employees, including compliance with many different wage/hour and nondiscrimination related regulatory schemes. Violation of any of the laws or regulations governing our business and the assertion of individual or class-wide claims could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product diversion could have an adverse impact on our revenues. The majority of the products that BSG sells are meant to be used exclusively by salons and individual salon professionals or are meant to be sold exclusively by the purchasers, such as salons, to their retail consumers. However, despite BSG’s efforts to prevent diversion, incidents of product diversion occur, whereby BSG products are sold by these purchasers (and possibly by other bulk purchasers such as franchisees) to middlemen and general merchandise retailers. The retailers, in turn, sell such products to consumers. The diverted product may be old, tainted or damaged and sold through unapproved outlets, all of which could diminish the value of the brand. Diversion could result in lower net sales for BSG should consumers choose to purchase diverted products from retailers rather than purchasing from BSG customers, or choose other products altogether because of the perceived loss of brand prestige. Product diversion is generally prohibited under BSG supplier contracts and we may be under a contractual obligation to stop selling to salons, salon professionals and other bulk purchasers who engage in product diversion. Our investigation and enforcement of anti-diversion policies may result in reduced sales to our customer base, thereby decreasing our revenues. We may not be able to successfully identify acquisition candidates or successfully complete desirable acquisitions. In the past several years, we have completed several significant acquisitions the majority of which were for the BSG business. We intend to continue to pursue additional acquisitions in the future. Our business has in the past actively reviewed acquisition prospects that would complement its existing lines of business, increase the size and geographic scope of its operations or otherwise offer growth and operating efficiency opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates. If suitable candidates are identified, sufficient funds may not be available to make such acquisitions. We compete against many other companies, some of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Increased competition for acquisition candidates could result in fewer acquisition opportunities and higher acquisition prices. In addition, the amount of equity that we can issue to make acquisitions or raise additional 17 Table of Contents capital will be severely limited for at least two years following our separation from Alberto-Culver, which will make equity generally unavailable to fund acquisitions. Also, because we are highly leveraged and the agreements governing our indebtedness contain limits on our ability to incur additional debt, we may be unable to finance acquisitions that would increase our growth or improve our financial and competitive position. To the extent that debt financing is available to finance acquisitions, our net indebtedness could be increased as a result of any acquisitions. If we acquire any businesses in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business or have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Any acquisitions that we do make may be difficult to integrate profitably into our business and may entail numerous risks, including: • difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, stores or products, including the loss of key employees from acquired businesses; • difficulties and costs associated with integrating and evaluating the internal control systems of acquired businesses; • expenses associated with the amortization of identifiable intangible assets; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • complying with foreign regulatory requirements, including multi-jurisdictional competition rules; • enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • operating inefficiencies and negative impact on profitability; • entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and • those related to general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by United States companies in particular. In addition, during the acquisition process, we may fail or be unable to discover some of the liabilities of businesses that we acquire. These liabilities may result from a prior owner’s noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. Acquired businesses may also not perform as we expect or we may not be able to obtain financial improvements in acquired businesses that we may expect. If we are unable to profitably open and operate new stores, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our future growth depends in part on our ability to open and profitably operate new stores in existing and additional geographic markets. The capital requirements to open a Sally Beauty Supply or BSG store, excluding inventory, average approximately $66,000 and $68,000, respectively. However, we may not be able to open all of the new stores we plan to open and any new stores we open may not be profitable, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. There are several factors that could affect our ability to open and profitably operate new stores, including: • the inability to identify and acquire suitable sites or to negotiate acceptable leases for such sites; • proximity to existing stores that may reduce new stores’ sales; • difficulties in adapting our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores; • the potential inability to obtain adequate financing to fund expansion because of our high leverage and limitations on our ability to issue equity for at least two years following our separation from Alberto-Culver, among other things; 18 Table of Contents • difficulties in obtaining any needed governmental and third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate additional stores; and • potential limitations on capital, expenditures which may be included in financing documents that we enter into. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, specifically our trademarks, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The success of our business depends to a certain extent upon the value associated with our intellectual property rights. We own certain trademark and brand name rights used in connection with our business including, but not limited to, “Sally,” “Sally Beauty,” “Sally Beauty Supply,” “Sally ProCard,” “BSG,” “CosmoProf,” “Armstrong McCall,” “ion” and “Beauty Club”. We protect our intellectual property rights through a variety of methods, including trademarks which are registered or legally protected in the United States, Canada and other countries throughout the world in which our business operates. We also rely on trade secret laws, in addition to confidentiality agreements with vendors, employees, consultants, and others who have access to our proprietary information. While we intend to vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement, we may not be successful in doing so. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our intellectual property rights and trademarks are expected to continue to be substantial. Failure to obtain the consent of third parties under our contracts could have an adverse effect on our business. There are a number of contracts to which we or our subsidiaries are a party that provide that we must obtain the consent of the other party to the contract in connection with completion of the transactions separating us from Alberto-Culver or that provide the other party to the contract the right to terminate the contract in connection with the separation transactions. It was not a condition to completion of the separation that these consents be obtained or that the other party to the contract waive its termination right. However, failure to obtain the consent of the other party to these contracts or to have the other party waive its termination right could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, and economic risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to grow or maintain our current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with our international operations. These risks include: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; trade barriers to some international markets; economic fluctuations in specific markets; potential difficulties in enforcing contracts, protecting assets, including intellectual property, and collecting receivables in certain foreign jurisdictions; and difficulties and costs of staffing, managing and accounting for foreign operations. We may be adversely affected by any disruption in our information technology systems. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. We rely upon such information technology systems to manage and replenish inventory, to fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis, and to coordinate our sales activities across all of our products and services. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged time period (arising from, for example, system capacity limits from unexpected increases in our volume of business, outages or delays in our service) could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. Our systems might be damaged or interrupted by natural or man-made events or by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions affecting the global internet. There can be no assurance that such delays, problems, or costs will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents The occurrence of one or more natural disasters or acts of terrorism could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters or acts of terrorism could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the temporary closure of stores or distribution centers, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long term disruption in the supply of products from some local suppliers, the temporary disruption in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers, the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores and/or the temporary reduction in visits to stores by customers. If one or more natural disasters or acts of terrorism were to impact our business, we could, among other things, incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing products to stores. Furthermore, insurance costs associated with our business may rise significantly in the event of a large scale natural disaster or act of terrorism. Risks Relating to Our Substantial Indebtedness We have substantial debt and may incur substantial additional debt, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future and our ability to react to changes in our business. In connection with our separation from Alberto-Culver, certain of our subsidiaries, including Sally Holdings LLC, which we refer to as Sally Holdings and which was, prior to our separation from Alberto-Culver, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alberto-Culver, incurred approximately $1.85 billion in debt. As of September 30, 2006, on a pro forma basis, we would have had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.85 billion of outstanding debt and a total debt to equity ratio of 1.84:1.00. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations because a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, including borrowings under our senior secured term loan facilities and our asset-backed senior secured loan facility, which we refer to collectively as the senior secured credit facilities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with proportionately less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates and that, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; • limit our ability to refinance indebtedness or cause the associated costs of such refinancing to increase; and • limit our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures, or prevent us from carrying out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins or our business. Any of the foregoing impacts of our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt, including secured debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the instruments governing our indebtedness do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. As of September 30, 2006, on a pro forma basis, our senior credit facilities, would have provided us commitments for additional borrowings of up to approximately $330 million under the asset-backed senior secured loan ABL facility, subject to borrowing base limitations. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase and we may not be able to meet all our debt obligations. In addition, the agreements governing our senior credit facilities as well as the indentures governing our senior notes and senior subordinated notes, which we refer to collectively as the notes, do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business. The senior secured term loan facilities, which we refer to as the senior term loans, contain covenants that, among other things, restrict Sally Holdings’ and its subsidiaries’ ability to: • dispose of assets; • incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees of additional indebtedness); • pay dividends, repurchase stock or make other distributions; • prepay certain other debt or amend specific debt agreements; • create liens on assets; • make investments (including joint ventures); • engage in mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of Sally Holdings’ assets; • engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and • permit restrictions on Sally Holdings’ subsidiaries ability to pay dividends. The asset-backed senior secured loan facility, which we refer to as the ABL facility, contains covenants that, among other things, restrict Sally Holdings’ and its subsidiaries’ ability to: • change their line of business; • amend specific debt agreements; • engage in certain mergers, consolidations and transfers of substantially all assets; • make certain acquisitions, make certain dividends, distributions and stock repurchases and prepay certain debt, in each case to the extent any such transaction would reduce availability under the ABL facility below a specified amount; and • change the fiscal year of Sally Holdings or its direct parent. The senior term loans contain a requirement that Sally Holdings not exceed a maximum ratio of net senior secured debt to consolidated EBITDA (as those terms are defined in the relevant credit agreement). In addition, if Sally Holdings fails to maintain a specified minimum level of borrowing capacity under the ABL facility, it will then be obligated to maintain a specified fixed-charge coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which in turn will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will also depend substantially on the pricing of our products, our success at implementing cost reduction initiatives and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. 21 Table of Contents The indentures governing the notes, also contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of Sally Holdings and its restricted subsidiaries to: • dispose of assets; • incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees of additional indebtedness); • pay dividends, repurchase stock or make other distributions; • prepay subordinated debt; • create liens on assets (which, in the case of the senior subordinated notes, would be limited in applicability to liens securing pari passu or subordinated indebtedness); • make investments (including joint ventures); • engage in mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of Sally Holdings’ assets; • engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and • permit restrictions on Sally Holdings’ subsidiaries ability to pay dividends. The restrictions in the indentures governing our notes and the terms of our senior credit facilities may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot assure you that our subsidiaries who are borrowers under these agreements will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason they are unable to comply with these agreements, or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the senior credit facilities and the indentures for the notes may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under either the senior credit facilities or the indentures that would permit the applicable lenders or note holders, as the case may be, to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay debt, lenders having secured obligations, such as the lenders under the senior credit facilities, could proceed against the collateral securing the debt. In any such case, our subsidiaries may be unable to borrow under the senior credit facilities and may not be able to repay the amounts due under the senior credit facilities and the notes. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to service all of our debt and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depend on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance our obligations under, our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the financial and business factors, many of which may be beyond our control, described under “—Risks Relating to Our Business” above. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, particularly because of our high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt, as well as prevailing market conditions. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to 22 Table of Contents meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes will restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions. We cannot assure you we will be able to consummate those sales, or if we do, what the timing of the sales will be or whether the proceeds that we realize will be adequate to meet debt service obligations when due. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. A significant portion of our outstanding debt, including under our senior credit facilities, bears interest at variable rates. As a result, an increase in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or a decrease in our creditworthiness, would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. The impact of such an increase would be more significant for us than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial debt. Risks Relating to the Tax Treatment of Our Separation from Alberto-Culver and Relating To Our Largest Stockholder If the share distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock in the transaction separating our company from Alberto-Culver did not constitute a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, then we may be responsible for payment of significant U.S. federal income taxes. The following discussion describes the risk that the share distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock in the transaction separating our company from Alberto-Culver may have triggered significant tax liabilities for us. In connection with the share distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock in the separation, we received (i) a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service and (ii) an opinion of Sidley Austin LLP, counsel to Alberto-Culver, in each case, to the effect that the transactions qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code and a distribution eligible for non-recognition under Sections 355(a) and 361(c) of the Internal Revenue Code. The private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel were based, in part, on assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by, among others, Alberto-Culver, us and representatives of Mrs. Carol L. Bernick, Mr. Leonard H. Lavin and certain of our other stockholders to whom we refer as the Lavin family stockholders, as requested by the Internal Revenue Service or counsel, which, if incorrect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by the Internal Revenue Service and counsel. The private letter ruling also did not address certain material legal issues that could affect its conclusions, and reserved the right of the Internal Revenue Service to raise such issues upon a subsequent audit. Opinions of counsel neither bind the Internal Revenue Service or any court, nor preclude the Internal Revenue Service from adopting a contrary position. If the Alberto-Culver share distribution were not to qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, we would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of the Alberto-Culver common stock distributed to our stockholders over our tax basis in the Alberto-Culver common stock. Even if the Alberto-Culver share distribution otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, it would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to us if there is an acquisition of our stock or stock of Alberto-Culver as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Alberto-Culver share distribution and that results in an acquisition of 50% or more of Alberto-Culver’s or our outstanding common stock. In the event that we recognize a taxable gain in connection with the Alberto-Culver share distribution (either (i) because the Alberto-Culver share distribution did not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code or (ii) because of an acquisition of 50% or more of Alberto-Culver or our outstanding common stock as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Alberto-Culver share distribution), the taxable gain recognized by us would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to us. Under the Internal Revenue Code, we would be primarily liable for these taxes (for which Alberto-Culver may be required to indemnify us under the tax allocation agreement, and there can be no assurance that Alberto-Culver would be able to fulfill its obligations under the tax allocation agreement if Alberto-Culver was determined to be responsible for these taxes thereunder). 23 Table of Contents For purposes of determining whether the distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock to our stockholders in connection with the Alberto-Culver share distribution is disqualified as tax-free to us under the rules described in the second preceding paragraph, any acquisitions of our stock or the stock of Alberto-Culver within two years before or after the Alberto-Culver share distribution are presumed to be part of a plan, although the parties may be able to rebut that presumption. For purposes of this test, the acquisition by CDR investors, of 48% of our outstanding common stock on an undiluted basis that occurred in connection with our separation from Alberto-Culver will be treated as part of such a plan or series of transactions. Thus, a relatively minor additional change in the ownership of our common stock could trigger a significant tax liability for us under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. The process for determining whether a prohibited change in control has occurred under the rules is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. If Alberto-Culver does not carefully monitor its, or we do not carefully monitor our, compliance with these rules, this might inadvertently cause or permit a prohibited change in the ownership of us or of Alberto-Culver to occur, thereby triggering Alberto-Culver’s or our respective obligations to indemnify the other pursuant to the tax allocation agreement, which would have a material adverse effect on us and/or Alberto-Culver. We will be primarily liable for these taxes, and there can be no assurance that Alberto-Culver would be able to fulfill its obligations under the tax allocation agreement if Alberto-Culver was determined to be responsible for these taxes thereunder. In addition, these mutual indemnity obligations could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire us. Actions taken by the Lavin family stockholders or by the CDR investors could adversely affect the tax-free nature of the share distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock in connection with the transactions separating our company from Alberto-Culver. Sales and/or acquisitions by the Lavin family stockholders of our common stock or Alberto-Culver common stock may adversely affect the tax-free nature of the share distribution of Alberto-Culver common stock in the transaction separating our company from Alberto-Culver. First, with certain exceptions, sales by the Lavin family stockholders of our common stock or Alberto-Culver common stock at any time after the separation transaction might be considered evidence that the share distribution was used principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits, particularly if the selling stockholder were found to have an intent to effect such sale at the time of the share distribution. If the Internal Revenue Service successfully asserted that the share distribution was used principally as such a device, the share distribution would not qualify as a tax-free distribution, and thus would be taxable to us. Second, with certain exceptions, if any of the Lavin family stockholders were to sell an amount of our common stock that it received in connection with the separation transaction (or to acquire additional shares of our common stock) within the two year period following completion of the Alberto-Culver share distribution, and that amount of stock, if added to the common stock comprising approximately 48% of our outstanding common stock on an undiluted basis that was acquired by CDR investors were to equal or exceed 50% of our outstanding common stock, as determined under the Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations, a deemed acquisition of control of us in connection with the Alberto-Culver share distribution would be presumed. If this presumption were not rebutted, we would be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, which, if not reimbursed by Alberto-Culver, would have a material adverse effect on us. Similarly, acquisitions by the CDR investors or their affiliates of our common stock may cause a deemed acquisition of control of us in connection with the Alberto-Culver share distribution. We are affected by significant restrictions on our ability to issue equity securities following completion of the transactions separating our company from Alberto-Culver. Because of certain limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder, the amount of equity that we can issue to make acquisitions or raise additional capital is severely limited and will continue to be so for at least two years following completion of the transactions separating us from Alberto-Culver. These limitations may restrict our ability to carry out our business objectives and to take advantage of opportunities that could be favorable to our business. In addition, because we, through our subsidiaries, incurred approximately $1.85 billion in debt in connection with those transactions, and the instruments governing our indebtedness contain limits on our ability to incur additional debt, our inability to raise even a small amount of equity capital at a time when we need additional capital could have a material adverse effect on our ability to service our debt and operate our business. 24 Table of Contents The voting power of our largest stockholder may discourage third party acquisitions of us at a premium. CDRS, our largest stockholder, owns approximately 48% of our outstanding common stock on an undiluted basis. Pursuant to the stockholders agreement entered into by us, the CDR investors and the Lavin family stockholders, which we refer to as the stockholders agreement, CDRS has designated five of our initial eleven directors, as well as the Chairman of the Board, and CDRS’ rights to nominate certain numbers of directors will continue so long as it owns specified percentages of our common stock. The CDR investors’ ownership of our common stock may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire control of us and may preclude holders of our common stock from receiving any premium above market price for their shares that may otherwise be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of us. The interests of our largest stockholder may differ from the interests of other holders of our common stock. CDRS owns approximately 48% of our outstanding common stock on an undiluted basis. The interests of CDRS may differ from those of other holders of our common stock in material respects. For example, CDRS may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its overall equity portfolio, even though such transactions might involve risks to holders of our common stock. The manager of CDRS’ ultimate parent is in the business of making investments in companies, and may from time to time in the future, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers of our customers. Additionally, CDRS may determine that the disposition of some or all of its interests in us would be beneficial to it at a time when such disposition could be detrimental to the other holders of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 