ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We face risks related to general domestic and global economic conditions and to the current credit crisis. We currently generate sufficient operating cash flows, which combined with access to the credit markets, provide us with significant discretionary funding capacity. However, the current uncertainty arising out of domestic and global economic conditions, including the recent disruption in credit markets, poses a risk to the economies in which we operate and may impact our ability to manage normal relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. In addition, the demand for our products is largely affected by the general economic conditions in China as our products are still not affordable to many patients. As China’s economy grows, we expect more Chinese people will become consumers of medical treatments and procedures, including procedures requiring human plasma. However, we expect that the current global economic slowdown will result in slower economic growth in China and a depressed economic environment which in turn may make our products less affordable to more patients and result in an overall decreased demand for our products. Such reductions and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. In order to grow at the pace expected by management, we will require additional capital to support our long-term business plan. If we are unable to obtain additional capital in future years, we may be unable to proceed with our long-term business plan and we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations or further business expansion. We will require additional working capital to support our long-term business plan, which includes identifying suitable targets for horizontal or vertical mergers or acquisitions, so as to enhance the overall productivity and benefit from economies of scale. Our working capital requirements and the cash flow provided by future operating activities, if any, will vary greatly from quarter to quarter, depending on the volume of business during the period and payment terms with our customers. We may not be able to obtain adequate levels of additional financing, whether through equity financing, debt financing or other sources, especially in light of the current global financial crisis and the market downturn. To raise funds, we may need to issue new equities or bonds which could result in additional dilution to our shareholders and in. Additional financings could result in significant dilution to our earnings per share or the issuance of securities with rights superior to our current outstanding securities or contain covenants that would restrict our operations and strategy. In addition, we may grant registration rights to investors purchasing our equity or debt securities in the future. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we may be unable to implement our long-term business plan, develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, a lack of additional financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations. If the PRC government bans or limits plasma-based biopharmaceutical products, our operations, revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. The principal raw materials of our existing and planned biopharmaceutical products is human source plasma, which, due to its unique nature, is subject to various quality and safety control issues which include, but are not limited to, contaminations and blood-born diseases. In addition, limitations of current technology pose biological hazards inherent in plasma that have yet to be discovered which could result in a wide spread epidemic due to blood infusion. The primary law that regulates plasma products in China is the PRC Pharmaceutical Law, the Implementation Rules on the PRC Pharmaceutical Law and the Regulations on the Administration of Blood Products. These rules and regulations require entities producing blood products to strictly comply with certain hygienic standards and specifications promulgated by the government. In the event that human plasma is discovered to be noncompliant with the government’s hygienic standards and specifications, the health department may revoke the registration and/or the approval of the blood product, or otherwise limit the use of such blood product. If the PRC government bans or limits plasma-based biopharmaceutical products, our operations, revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. 17 If the plasma from Shandong Province are found to be contaminated, or the supply from these plasma stations becomes restricted, our operation, revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. We currently source plasma mainly from human donations to our plasma stations in Shandong and Guangxi Provinces. If any of our human donors is infected with certain diseases, then the plasma from such donor may be infected. If such contaminated plasma is not appropriately screened out, our entire plasma source may become contaminated. If the plasma from these collection stations are found to be contaminated or the supply from these plasma stations becomes restricted, our operation, revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. If we are unable to adequately monitor our plasma stations in Shandong Province and Guangxi Province our plasma supply may be tainted and we will be subject to sanctions by the government which would have a material adverse effect on our business. As part of the industry reform initiative by the Chinese government, in 2006 we acquired the assets of five of the six then existing plasma stations in Shandong Province through our wholly owned subsidiaries, Xia Jin Plasma Company, the Qi He Plasma Company, the He Ze Plasma Company, the Zhang Qiu Plasma Company and the Yang Gu Plasma Company. We received permits to operate these subsidiaries in January 2007. In April 2007, we acquired the assets of two additional plasma stations, one through our newly formed subsidiary, the Huan Jiang Plasma Company, and the other through our majority owned subsidiary, the Fang Cheng Plasma Company, which is 80% owned by Shandong Taibang and 20% owned by Lin Feng, an unrelated third party. We obtained necessary permits and commenced their operation in July and August 2007, respectively. While we establish plasma processing procedures through processing agreements with our plasma stations and monitor our blood plasma intake procedures through frequent unscheduled inspections of our stations, there remains a risk that our blood supply may become tainted during the collection process. Our blood supply may become tainted if we accept blood from donors whose blood shows any irregular findings including HIV, Hepatitis C and liver disease. We pre-screen all donors in order to ensure that this criteria is met. If our blood supply becomes tainted, the consequences for our business could be severe. We could be subject to civil liability from suits brought by consumers and to criminal liability and loss of our registration if we are found by the government to have been criminally negligent. Our operations, sales, profit and cash flow will be adversely affected if our albumin products fail inspection or are delayed by regulators. Each batch of our albumin products requires inspection by Chinese government regulators before we can ship it to our customers. The PRC State Food and Drug Authority, or the SFDA, has a quality standard which considers, among other things, the appearance, packing capacity, thermal stability, pH value, protein content and percentage of purity of the product. In order to pass inspection, our plasma must test negative for any blood irregularities, including Hepatitis C, HIV and liver disease. The plasma must be packaged in 25 separate 600g bags and boxed with a packing list and labeled to be consistent with computer records. The plasma must then be stored at -20°C as soon as possible after collection to ensure that it will congeal within 6 hours. Government regulators usually take one month to inspect a batch of albumin products. The process begins when the regulator randomly selects samples of our albumin products and delivers them to the National Institute for the Control of Pharmaceutical and Biological Products, or the NICBPB, in Beijing for testing, and the process ends when the products are given final approval by the NICBPB. In the event that the regulators delay the approval of our products, change the requirements in such a way that we are unable to comply with those requirements, or require our other products to be inspected by regulators before we can ship them to our customers, our operations, sales, profit and cash flow will be adversely affected. 18 We rely on a Secondment Agreement with the Shandong Institute, which is expected to terminate before the end of 2008 upon the privatization of the Shandong Institute, for over 39% of our Shandong Taibang employees. If the Secondment Agreement is breached or terminated, it could have an adverse effect on our operations and on our financial results. The Shandong Province Institute of Biological Products, or the Shandong Institute, has provided us with approximately 131 of our employees out of a total of approximately – 753 employees, pursuant to a secondment agreement, or Secondment Agreement, dated October 28, 2002, between Shandong Taibang and the Shandong Institute. Pursuant to the Secondment Agreement, we are responsible for the salaries of these employees, as well as for their social benefits such as insurance. Our Secondment Agreement with the Shandong Institute will expire on the sooner to occur of October 2032 or upon the privatization of the Shandong Institute, which was originally expected to occur before the end of 2008. However, the completion of privatization of Shandong Institute has been further delayed indefinitely due to slower action taken by the Shandong Ministry of Health in implementing the privatization plan. Upon expiration or termination of the Secondment Agreement, we plan to hire the seconded employees directly. However, we cannot be sure that all of the employees will accept our employment offers at that time. Guang Li Pang, Shandong Taibang’s Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Yun Hua Gao and Dian Cong Liu, our Senior Technical Advisors are employed through the Secondment Agreement. Although none of our seconded employees have indicated that they do not plan to continue working for our Company after the privatization, if the Secondment Agreement is terminated or expires and we are unable to hire replacement employees on time, our operations, as well as our financial results, may suffer. If the distributors who we rely on do not purchase our products, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We sell all of our products in China through our network of about 397 distributors located in about 27 provinces and municipal cities throughout China. While we have established working relationships with many of our distributors and strictly regulate their sales and marketing activities by annual distribution agreements, there are no restrictions in these distribution agreements preventing our distributors from also supplying products produced by our competitors. Our own marketing and sales staff work to develop and maintain relationships with our distributors, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such relationships. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, direct sales to distributors represented approximately 65.6% and 58.3%, respectively, of our total revenues. If a number of our distributors cease to purchase our products and we are unable to find suitable replacement, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our inability to successfully research and develop new biological pharmaceutical products could have an adverse effect on our future growth. We believe that the successful development of biological pharmaceutical products can be affected by many factors. Products that appear to be promising in the early phases of research and development may fail to be commercialized for various reasons, including the failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. In addition, the research and development cycles for new medicine for which we must obtain a Certificate of New Medicine from the PRC Ministry of Health, is a relatively lengthy process. In our experience, the process of conducting research and various tests on new products before obtaining a Certificate of New Medicine and subsequent procedures may take approximately three to five years. There is no assurance that our future research and development projects will be successful or that they will be completed within the anticipated time frame or budget. Also, there is no guarantee that we will receive the necessary approvals from relevant authorities for the production of our newly developed products. Even if such products could be successfully commercialized, there is no assurance that they will be accepted by the market as anticipated. Our financial position and operations may be materially and adversely affected, if our product liability insurance does not sufficiently cover our liabilities. Under current PRC laws, manufacturers and vendors of defective products in the PRC may incur liability for loss and injury caused by such products. Pursuant to the General Principles of the Civil Law of the PRC or the PRC Civil Law, which became effective in 1987, a defective product which causes property damage or physical injury to any person may subject the manufacturer or vendor of such product to civil liability. 19 In 1993, the PRC promulgated the Product Quality Law of the PRC or the Product Quality Law, which was revised in 2000. The Product Quality Law was enacted to protect the rights and interests of end-users and consumers and to strengthen the supervision and control of the quality of products. Under the Product Quality Law, manufacturers who produce defective products may be subject to fines and required to cease production, and in severe cases, be subject to criminal liability and may have their business licenses revoked. In 1993, the Law of the PRC on the Protection of the Rights and Interests of Consumers or the Consumers’ Rights Law was promulgated to further protect the legal rights and interests of consumers in connection with the purchase or use of goods and services. All businesses, including our business, must observe and comply with the Consumers’ Rights Law. We maintain product liability insurance for sales in the PRC for all of our products in the amount of approximately $2.9 million (RMB20 million). Although no one has filed any claims in relation to the use of our pharmaceutical products, our financial position and operations may be materially and adversely affected, if our insurance coverage is insufficient to cover a successful claim. We depend heavily on key personnel, and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our success, to a certain extent, is attributable to the expertise and experience of our senior management and key research and technical personnel, including Chao-Ming Zhao, our Chief Executive Officer, Yu-Yun Tristan Kuo, our Chief Financial Officer, Tung Lam, the Chief Executive Officer of Shandong Taibang and Dian Cong Liu, the Chief Technical Adviser of Shandong Taibang, who carry out key functions in our operation. If we lose the service of any of our senior management or key research or technical personnel or fail to attract additional personnel with suitable experience and qualification, our business operations and research capability may be adversely affected. Our senior management and employees have worked together for a short period of time, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate their effectiveness and ability to address challenges. Due to our limited operating history and recent additions to our management team, certain of our senior management and employees have worked together at our company for only a relatively short period of time. Specifically, Chao Ming Zhao became our Chief Executive Officer in June 2008 after serving as our Chief Financial Officer since November 2006 and Y. Tristan Kuo became our Chief Financial Officer in June 2008 and had served as our Vice President-Finance since September 2007. Siu Ling Chan and Lin Ling Li became our directors in July 2006. In addition, while Mr. Zhao, Ms. Chen and Ms. Lin were employed in various capacities by Logic Express and Shandong Taibang, Mr. Kuo is a newcomer to our Company. As a result of these circumstances, it may be difficult for you to evaluate the effectiveness of our senior management and other key employees and their ability to address future challenges to our business. Future acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Selective acquisitions form part of our strategy to further expand our business. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire additional companies, products or technologies. Future acquisitions and the subsequent integration of new companies into ours would require significant attention from our management. Our company has little experience with integrating newly acquired businesses. Potential problems encountered by each organization during mergers and acquisitions would be unique, posing additional risks to the company. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in any integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Future acquisitions would expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the assimilation of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions, and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees, customers and suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. 20 We may lose our competitive advantage and our operations may suffer if we fail to prevent the loss or misappropriation of, or disputes over, our intellectual property. None of our products are currently covered by patents, except for the trademark “Lu Yue” that has been licensed to us by the Shandong Institute for our use as in the labeling of human-use medicine, biopreparate and blood products, pursuant to a trademark license agreement, dated February 27, 2007. We plan to apply for patents for our manufacturing processes. The patent application will be subject to approval from the relevant PRC authorities. We may not be able to successfully obtain the approval of the PRC authorities for our patent applications. Furthermore, third parties may assert claims to our proprietary procedures, technologies and systems. These proprietary procedures, technologies and systems are important to our business as they allow us to maintain our competitive edge over our competitors. While we are not aware of any infringement on our intellectual property and we have not been notified by any third party that we are infringing on their intellectual property, our ability to compete successfully and to achieve future revenue growth will depend, in significant part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. The legal regime in China for the protection of intellectual property rights is still at its early stage of development. Intellectual property protection became a national effort in China in 1979 when China adopted its first statute on the protection of trademarks. Since then, China has adopted its Patent Law, Trademark Law and Copyright Law and promulgated related regulations such as Regulation on Computer Software Protection, Regulation on the Protection of Layout Designs of Integrated Circuits and Regulation on Internet Domain Names. China has also acceded to various international treaties and conventions in this area, such as the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, Patent Cooperation Treaty, Madrid Agreement and its Protocol Concerning the International Registration of Marks. In addition, when China became a party to the World Trade Organization in 2001, China amended many of its laws and regulations to comply with the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. Despite many laws and regulations promulgated and other efforts made by China over the years with a view to tightening up its regulation and protection of intellectual property rights, private parties may not enjoy intellectual property rights in China to the same extent as they would in many Western countries, including the United States, and enforcement of such laws and regulations in China have not achieved the levels reached in those countries. Both the administrative agencies and the court system in China are not well-equipped to deal with violations or handle the nuances and complexities between compliant technological innovation and non-compliant infringement. We rely on confidentiality agreements with our management and employees to protect our confidential proprietary information. However, the protection of our intellectual properties may be compromised as a result of: departure of any of our management members or employees in possession of our confidential proprietary information; breach by such departing management member or employee of his or her confidentiality and non-disclosure undertaking to us; infringement by others of our proprietary information and intellectual property rights; or refusal by relevant regulatory authorities to approve our patent or trademark applications. Any of these events or occurrences may have a material adverse effect on our operations and the measures that we have put into place to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient. Litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs and may not be successful. If we are not able to successfully defend our intellectual property rights, we might lose rights to technology that we need to conduct and develop our business. This may seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition, and enable our competitors to use our intellectual property to compete against us. Furthermore, if third parties claim that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, we may be required to devote substantial resources to defend against such claims. If we are unsuccessful in defending against such infringement claims, we may be required to pay damages, modify our products or suspend the production and sale of such products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to modify our products on commercially reasonable terms. 21 A disruption in the supply of utilities, fire or other calamity at our manufacturing plant would disrupt production of our products and adversely affect our sales. Our products are manufactured solely at our production facility located in Taian City, Shandong Province in the PRC. While we have not in the past experienced any calamities which disrupted production, any disruption in the supply of utilities, in particular, electricity or power supply, or any outbreak of fire, flood or other calamity resulting in significant damage at our facilities would severely affect our production and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain insurance policies covering losses with respect to damages to our properties and products. We do not have insurance coverage for machinery and inventories of raw materials. There is no assurance that our insurance would be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have the operating effectiveness of our internal controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. A report of our management is included under Item 9A(T) of this annual report. In addition, SOX 404 requires the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements to also attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of such company’s internal controls. However, this annual report does not include an attestation report because under current law, we will not be subject to these requirements until our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. We can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. There can be no assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent registered public accountants. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent registered public accountants with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. There is a dispute between the former shareholders of Shandong Taibang that calls into question our ownership of 66%, or a majority, of our primary operating subsidiary, which if not resolved in our favor will adversely affect our business. Mr. Zu Ying Du was one of the original equity holders in our operating subsidiary, Shandong Taibang. Pursuant to a joint venture agreement, among the original equity holders, Mr. Du was obligated to make a capital contribution of RMB20 million (or approximately $2.6 million) for a 25% interest in Shandong Taibang. Mr. Du made this contribution using funds borrowed from the Beijing Chen Da Technology Investment Company, or Beijing Chen Da. Mr. Du failed to repay Beijing Chen Da for his loan of the capital contribution amount. Mr. Du disputes that the money was due and owing. A Beijing court found that Beijing Chen Da had given money to Mr. Du but found that the loan agreement failed to comply with Chinese law. A notice was issued on July 5, 2004 by the Shenzhen Public Security Bureau Economic Crime Investigation Unit requesting a stay of the Beijing action pending their investigation into money laundering relating to the 20 million RMB loan to Zu Ying Du. Subsequently, Beijing Chen Da entered into an equity transfer agreement with Mr. Du, pursuant to which Mr. Du’s 25% equity interest in Shandong Taibang was transferred to Beijing Chen Da as repayment of the RMB20 million debt. This agreement was signed by Mr. Du’s brother who held a power of attorney from Mr. Du. Mr. Du disputes the legitimacy of this transfer and has argued that his brother, Du Hai Shan, exceeded the scope of the power of attorney. Mr. Du sued his brother in the court of Jianli County, Hubei province, relating to the propriety of the brother’s actions under the power of attorney. Initially the county court found in its judgment that the act had exceeded the scope of the power of attorney. Subsequently the Intermediate Court of Jingzhou City, Hubei province, ruled on December 10, 2008 to suspend the judgment based on the grounds that the original court lacked jurisdiction to hear the case. The case is stated to be reviewed again by the Hubei Jingzhou Intermediate Court. 22 Missile Engineering, another original equity holder wholly controlled by Mr. Du, was obligated to contribute RMB32.8 million (or $4.2 million) for a 41% interest in Shandong Taibang by means of cash, equipment and patent technology. It was obligated to obtain new drug certificate and production license of its patent technology from the government within a stipulated period in order to be recognized as a valid capital contribution, or in the alternative, make a cash payment. The patent technology was valued as RMB26.4 million (or approximately $3.4 million). However, Missile Engineering failed to obtain the new drug certificate and production license within the stipulated period. Mr. Du also disputes whether the period for obtaining the certificate and license had expired. Pursuant to a stockholders resolution on September 26, 2004, Missile Engineering agreed to sell its 41% interest in Shandong Taibang to Up-Wing and Up-Wing agreed to take up the obligation of Missile Engineering to pay the RMB26.4 million in cash. Missile Engineering disputes this transaction and sued the brother of Mr. Du in the court of Jianli County, Hubei province, relating to the propriety of the brother’s actions under the power of attorney. Initially the county court found in its judgment that the act had exceeded the scope of the power of attorney. Subsequently the Intermediate Court of Jingzhou City, Hubei province, ruled on December 10, 2008 to suspend the judgment based on the grounds that the original court lacked jurisdiction to hear the case. The case is stated to be reviewed again by the Hubei Jingzhou Intermediate Court. In June 10, 2005, Beijing Chen Da also sold its equity interest in Shandong Taibang to Up-Wing Investments Limited, or Up-Wing, pursuant to a share transfer agreement, which became effective on September 2, 2005, upon approval by the Shandong Provincial Department of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, or the Shandong COFTEC. In March 2006, Up-Wing sold its equity interests in Shandong Taibang to Logic Express, our subsidiary. In 2006, Missile Engineering applied for arbitration before the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission, or CIETAC, to challenge the effectiveness of the transfer to Up-Wing Investments Limited, of the equity interests in Shandong Taibang formerly owned by Missile Engineering. The equity transfer had been approved by the Shandong Provincial Department of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, or the Shandong COFTEC. Missile Engineering later voluntarily withdrew this application and instead applied for administrative reconsideration of the equity transfer, but this application was rejected by the Ministry of Commerce in 2007. Missile Engineering applied with the District Court of Lixia District, Jinan City, Shandong province requesting revocation of Shandong COFTEC’s approval of the equity transfer to Up-wing by Missile Engineering. Missile Engineering later voluntarily withdrew the action. In April 2007, Logic Express initiated an arbitration proceeding before the Shandong Tai’an Arbitration Committee, to establish that Logic Express is the lawful shareholder of Shandong Taibang. The parties to that proceeding were Logic Express Ltd. and Shandong Taibang Biological Products Co., Ltd. The Arbitration Committee’s decision on September 6, 2007 confirmed that Logic Express had legitimate ownership as a result of the transfer of Shandong Taibang. Up-Wing started an action in the Intermediate Court of Tai’an City, Shandong province requesting the court to establish that Up-Wing is the lawful shareholder of Shandong Taibang. The Intermediate Court of Tai’an City, Shandong province on December 20, 2007 rejected the application on the basis that the same matter had been tried by the arbitration panel. Up-Wing filed a defamation case in the District Court of Hi-technology and Industry Development District, Tai’an City, Shandong province claiming defamation against Mr. Du and the 21st Century Economic Report Newspaper. Judgment in favor of Up-Wing was rendered on July 22, 2008 ordering the newspaper and Mr. Du to apologize on the newspaper to Up-Wing. Mr. Du and Missile Engineering have filed two actions in the Intermediate Court of Wuhan City, Hubei province, against the following defendants, Du Hai Shan, his brother, Beijing Chen Da and Logic Express. Mr. Du and Missile Engineering have requested that the Wuhan Intermediate Court to restore the equity interests originally held by the plaintiffs, 25% equity interest held by Mr. Du and 41% equity interest held by Missile Engineering. The Wuhan Intermediate Court has issued a preliminary order attaching 66% of the equity of Shandong Taibang pending the outcome of the case. Dr. Du has alleged that Mr. Lam, the current CEO of our subsidiary Taibang, was formerly known as Lin Zepin and that the individual, Lin Zepin, was court martialed for smuggling in Fujian in 1999. Dr. Du alleges that Lin Zepin was released from prison in 2003. Mr. Lam denies these statements and has provided an affidavit stating that he was never know as Lin Zepin and has not been convicted of any crime. If it were determined that Mr. Lam, the CEO of Taibang, was formerly known as Lin Zepin and was in fact convicted of a crime, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. For failure to resolve these disputes in our favor may adversely affect our business and operations. 23 RISKS RELATING TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION We face risks related to general domestic and global economic conditions and to the current credit crisis. We currently generate sufficient operating cash flows, which combined with access to the credit markets, provide us with significant discretionary funding capacity. However, the current uncertainty arising out of domestic and global economic conditions, including the recent disruption in credit markets, poses a risk to the economies in which we operate that has impacted accounts receivable collectivity from our customers, and may impact our ability to pay suppliers and creditors. If the current situation deteriorates significantly, we could see a tightened cash flow position and an abnormal amount of bad debt expenses related to the general economic slow-down, or supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets. Such reductions and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Our cash flow could be negatively affected as a result of our extension of relatively long payment terms to customers that we believe are credit worthy. As is customary in our industry, we extend relatively long payment terms (up to six months) to customers that we believe are credit worthy. The dollar amount of our accounts receivable and the amount of our allowance for doubtful accounts as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $1,581,139 and $1,268,052, respectively. The bad debt (credit) expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were ($56,462) and $221,813, respectively. Although we attempt to establish appropriate reserves for our receivables, those reserves may not prove to be adequate in view of actual levels of bad debts. The failure of our customers to pay us timely would negatively affect our working capital, which could in turn adversely affect our cash flow. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. Shandong Taibang as began its operation in October 2002. With the rapid growth of the industry, it has experienced a high growth rate since 2002. Furthermore, we did not acquire a controlling interest in Shandong Taibang until September 2005. As such, our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. We may not be able to achieve a similar growth rate in future periods. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. We face risks associated with debt financing (including exposure to variation in interest rates). Our total outstanding indebtedness, entirely comprising of long-term bank loan, as of December 31, 2008 was $5.9 million. The interest rate on this long-term bank loan is fixed at 7.02% per annum. Our obligations under our existing loans have been mainly met through the cash flow from our operations and our financing activities. We are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk of significant increase in interest rates and the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payment of principal and interest. In the past, cash flow from operations had been sufficient to meet payment obligations and/or we have been able to roll over our borrowings. There is however no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. We may also underestimate our capital requirements and other expenditures or overestimate our future cash flows. In such event, additional capital, debt or other forms of financing may be required for our working capital. If any of the aforesaid events occur and we are unable for any reason to raise additional capital, debt or other financing to meet our working capital requirements, our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position will be adversely affected. We will incur capital expenditures in the future in connection with our growth plans and therefore may require additional financing. To grow our sales volume, we need to increase our raw material supplies and strengthen our commitment to our research and development efforts to accelerate new product development. We plan to solve our raw materials shortage through either the building of new plasma collection stations or through scaling up our existing collection stations, both of which will require substantial capital expenditures. We anticipate that our capital expenditure for the next 12 months will be approximately $2.5 million. Such expenditures are likely to be incurred in advance of any increase in sales. Our revenue may not increase after these capital expenditures are incurred. This will depend on, among other factors, on our ability to maintain or achieve high capacity utilization rates. Any failure to increase our revenue after incurring capital expenditure to expand production capacity will reduce our profitability. 24 We may need to obtain additional debt or equity financing which may result in dilution to our stockholders and have a material adverse economic effect on our business. We may need to obtain additional debt or equity financing to fund our capital expenditures. Additional equity financing may result in dilution to our shareholders. Additional debt financing may be required, which, if obtained, may: limit our ability to pay dividends or require us to seek consents for the payment of dividends; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to pursue our growth plan; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations as payment for our debt, thereby reducing availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate purposes; and/or limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INDUSTRY If our supply of quality plasma is interrupted, our results of operations and profitability will be adversely affected. The production of plasma-based biopharmaceutical products relies on the supply of plasma of suitable quality. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the cost of plasma used by us for production accounted for approximately 76% and 73%, respectively, of total production cost. The supply and market prices of plasma may be adversely affected by factors such as regulatory restrictions, weather conditions or outbreak of diseases which would impact our costs of production. We may not be able to pass on any resulting increase in costs to our customers and therefore any substantial fluctuation in supply or market prices of plasma may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. The biopharmaceutical industry in the PRC is strictly regulated and changes in such regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. The biopharmaceutical industry in the PRC is strictly regulated by the government. The regulatory regime, such as administrative approval of medicines and production approvals, comprises of series of regulations and administrative rules. The PRC regulatory authorities may amend such regulations and administrative rules and promulgate new regulations and administrative rules from time to time. Changes in these regulations and administrative rules could have a significant impact on our business. Such changes may have any adverse impact on our business. 25 We may not be able to carry on our business if we lose any of the permits and licenses required by the PRC Government in order to carry on our business. All pharmaceutical manufacturing and distribution enterprises in the PRC are required to obtain from various PRC governmental authorities certain permits and licenses, including, in the case of manufacturing enterprises, a Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Permit and, in the case of distribution enterprises, a Pharmaceutical Distribution Permit. We have obtained permits and licenses and the GMP certificates, required for the manufacture of our pharmaceutical products. These permits and licenses held by us are subject to periodic renewal and/or reassessment by the relevant PRC Government authorities and the standards of compliance required in relation thereto may from time to time be subject to changes. We intend to apply for the renewal of such permits and licenses when required by applicable laws and regulations. Any changes in compliance standards, or any new laws or regulations that may prohibit or render it more restrictive for us to conduct our business or increase our compliance costs may adversely affect our operations or profitability. Any failure by us to obtain such renewals may have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business. In addition, we may not be able to carry on business without such permits and business licenses being renewed. We may encounter increased competition from both local and overseas pharmaceutical enterprises as a result of a relaxation of the PRC regulatory approval process for plasma-based biopharmaceutical products or due to an ease in international trade restrictions. A change in our competitive environment could adversely affect our profitability and prospects. Our continued ability to compete depends on the development of the plasma-based biopharmaceutical manufacturing industry in China. The plasma-based biopharmaceutical manufacturing industry in China is highly regulated by both provincial and central governments. Prior to engaging in the collection and production of plasma products, companies such as ours are required to obtain collection permits from the central health department and production permits and certificates for each new product formulation from the various provincial food and drug authorities. We have the advantage of being already approved by the state to collect plasma from human donors and manufacture and sell plasma-based biopharmaceutical products in Shandong Province, and our research and development department has become familiar with the provincial product approval process. However, although we believe that the regulatory requirements pose a competitive barrier to entry into the biopharmaceutical industry, over time there may be new entrants. If the government relaxes these restrictions and allow more competitors to enter into the market, these competitors may have more capital, better research and development resources, manufacturing and marketing capability and experience than us. Our profitability may be adversely affected if (i) competition intensifies; (ii) competitors drastically reduce prices; or (iii) competitors develop new products having comparable medicinal applications or therapeutic effects which are more effective and /or less costly than those produced by us. In addition we expect that competition from imported products will increase as a result of a trend towards lower import tariffs and China’s admission as a member of the WTO in December 2001. We believe that lower import tariffs will result in more affordable pricing for imported biopharmaceutical products manufactured overseas as compared to domestically manufactured products such as ours. In addition, China’s membership in the WTO makes it more accessible to foreign biopharmaceutical manufacturers who may wish to set up production facilities in the PRC and compete directly with domestic manufacturers. The expected increased supply of both domestic and foreign competitively priced biopharmaceutical products in the PRC will result in increased competition. There is no assurance that our strategies to remain competitive can be implemented successfully as scheduled or at all. Our inability to remain competitive may have an adverse effect on our profitability and prospects. If we do not receive PRC governmental approval to increase the retail prices of certain of our biopharmaceutical products our revenues may be adversely affected. Retail prices of certain of our biopharmaceutical products in the PRC are subject to the control of the relevant federal and provincial price administration authorities. The actual price for any given price-controlled product set by manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers cannot exceed the price ceiling imposed in accordance with the applicable government price control rules. Only those pharmaceutical products which are included in the Insurance Catalogue administered at the federal or provincial level are subject to price control. 26 Our two principal product categories, human albumin and human rabies immunoglobulin, which accounted for a total of approximately 65.5% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, were subject to national price control regulations in the PRC. Hence, the prices of those products could not be increased at our discretion above the relevant controlled retail price ceiling without prior governmental approval. This, in turn, may affect the ex-factory prices set by us for our products and we therefore do not have unfettered freedom to maximize our profits. It is uncertain whether we will be able to obtain necessary approvals to increase the price of any of our products. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Changes in China's political or economic situation could harm us and our operating results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: Level of government involvement in the economy; Control of foreign exchange; Methods of allocating resources; Balance of payments position; International trade restrictions; and International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. For example, state-owned enterprises still constitute a large portion of the Chinese economy and weak corporate governance and a lack of flexible currency exchange policy still prevail in China. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy was similar to those of the OECD member countries. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in the PRC. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to evolve rapidly, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, all of our executive officers and all of our directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese operations and subsidiaries. 27 You may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us. We are a Delaware holding company and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. Most of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Our counsel as to PRC law, has advised us that the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law. Courts in China may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security or the public interest. So it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as - -2.2% . These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products and our company. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in RMB and U.S. dollars, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB. 28 Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, some of our raw materials and major equipment are imported. In the event that the U.S. dollars appreciate against RMB, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increases on to our customers, our profitability and operating results will suffer. In addition, if our sales to international customers grow, we will be increasingly subject to the risk of foreign currency depreciation. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries' ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our businesses. Substantially all of our revenues are earned by our PRC subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to their offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividend by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of our annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of our registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75 by (1) purporting to cover the establishment or acquisition of control by PRC residents of offshore entities which merely acquire “control” over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; (2) adding requirements relating to the source of the PRC resident’s funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; covering the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; (3) purporting to cover situations in which an offshore SPV establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; and (4) making the domestic affiliate of the SPV responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 75 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations, and Notice 106 makes the offshore SPV jointly responsible for these filings. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006; this date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the SPV and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV’s affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. 29 We believe our stockholders who are PRC residents as defined in Circular 75 have registered with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. However, we cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, and they have made all necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by Circular 75. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with Circular 75, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Under the New EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC stockholders. China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. Because the New EIT Law and its implementing rules are new, no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification is available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. 30 If the PRC tax authorities determine that China Biologic is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the 2009 tax year and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and we make sales in China. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company, even though they may not always be subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK GENERALLY Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq system. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. We cannot assure you that the common stock will become liquid or that it will be listed on a securities exchange. We plan to list our common stock as soon as practicable. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet the initial listing standards of any stock exchange, or that we will be able to maintain any such listing. In this venue, however, an investor may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the common stock. In addition, if we failed to meet the criteria set forth in SEC regulations, various requirements would be imposed by law on broker-dealers who sell our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such regulations may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling the common stock, which may further affect its liquidity. This would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. 31 We may be subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions and you may have difficulty selling shares of our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called “penny stocks” to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. If our common stock becomes a “penny stock”, we may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, or the Penny Stock Rule. This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 