ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The information contained in this report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. See “FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS” (page 94) for specific important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. The Company’s actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Risks Relating to Our Business Our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and as a result any inadequacy could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to maintain adequate reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liabilities for loss and loss adjustment expenses, or LAE. Loss and LAE reserves are typically comprised of (1) case reserves for claims reported and (2) reserves for losses that have occurred but for which claims have not yet been reported, referred to as incurred but not reported, or IBNR, reserves, which include a provision for expected future development on case reserves. These reserves are estimates based on actuarial and statistical projections of what we believe the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known to us. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimating loss and LAE reserves, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and actual claims and claim expenses paid might exceed our reserves. For example, we have had a large number of construction defect claims arising from our general liability and multiple peril lines of business. Construction defect is a highly uncertain exposure due to issues concerning whether coverage exists, the definition of an occurrence, the determination of ultimate damages and the allocation of such damages to financially responsible parties. 28 We had established gross loss and LAE reserves of $5,354.3 million and $4,837.7 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, we incurred $99.3 million, $99.0 million and $11.3 million of losses, respectively, net of reinsurance, related to the re-estimation of previously established reserves. If in the future we determine that our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual loss and LAE, we would have to strengthen our reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For additional information relating to loss and LAE reserve requirements, see “Regulatory Matters.” For additional information relating to how we estimate our loss and LAE reserves, including our asbestos and environmental reserves, see “Business—Loss and LAE Reserves” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates.” Exposure to asbestos or environmental claims could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Estimating our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims is subject to a particularly high degree of uncertainty. If we have not established adequate loss and LAE reserves to cover future claims, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In connection with the OneBeacon Acquisition, to help protect against potential asbestos and environmental claims relating to the pre-acquisition period, we purchased a reinsurance contract from NICO, rated “AAA” by Standard & Poor’s and “A++” by A.M. Best. We refer to this reinsurance contract as the NICO Cover. Under the NICO Cover we are entitled to recover up to $2.5 billion from NICO for (1) all asbestos claims arising from business written by us in 1992 and prior, (2) all environmental claims arising from business written by us in 1987 and prior, and (3) certain other latent exposures. As of December 31, 2006, we estimate that on an incurred basis we have ceded losses of approximately $2.1 billion to the NICO Cover, leaving remaining protection under the NICO Cover of $404.0 million. Due to exclusions in policy language and changes in coverages provided, we do not believe that we have significant exposure to asbestos claims arising from business we wrote after 1992 or to environmental claims arising from business we wrote after 1987. As of December 31, 2006, we had established gross loss and LAE reserves for asbestos claims of $1,227.6 million. Approximately 99% of these loss and LAE reserves are covered under reinsurance arrangements. Our net loss and LAE reserves for asbestos claims after giving effect to third party reinsurance other than the NICO Cover was $766.6 million at December 31, 2006. Our net loss and LAE reserves for asbestos claims after giving effect to both third party reinsurance and the NICO Cover was $6.8 million at December 31, 2006. Estimating our future exposure to asbestos claims is subject to considerable uncertainty due to tort liability reform in various states, the difficulty of predicting jury awards in such matters and diverging legal interpretations and rules in different jurisdictions. These uncertainties also include, among other things: · the extent of coverage under insurance policies; · whether or not particular claims are subject to an aggregate limit; · the number of occurrences involved in particular claims; and · new theories of insured and insurer liability. The ultimate liability for our asbestos claims remains uncertain and could exceed the coverage under our reinsurance arrangements and our net loss and LAE reserves. 29 Insurers, including us, experienced an increase in the number of new asbestos-related claims in recent years, in particular in 2002 and 2003. We experienced a 12% increase in the number of accounts with asbestos-related claims reported during 2002 as compared to 2001 and another 51% increase in the number reported in 2003 from the level reported in 2002. We believe this increase was attributable to, among other things, more intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants, the increasing focus by plaintiffs on new and previously peripheral defendants, an acceleration of claims prior to the potential enactment of Federal asbestos legislation, and an increase in the number of entities seeking bankruptcy protection as a result of asbestos-related liabilities. During 2004, we started to experience a decrease in the number of accounts with asbestos-related claims reported with a 37% decrease from the level reported in 2003; however, the number of accounts with asbestos-related claims reported in 2004 was still above levels reported in 1999, 2000 and 2001. During 2005, we experienced a 6% decrease in the number of accounts with asbestos-related claims reported when compared to the average of the prior three-year period. During 2006, we experienced a 13% decrease in the number of accounts with asbestos-related claims reported when compared to the average of the prior three-year period. It is uncertain whether the number of new annual claims and filings will continue to decrease, remain stable or increase when compared to prior annual periods. Also, in addition to adding new claims, bankruptcy proceedings may have the effect of significantly accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including us. Increasingly, policyholders have been asserting that their claims for asbestos-related insurance are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage and that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate occurrence under a policy. Some policyholders who previously sought payment from us for asbestos claims under their products liability coverages, which were subject to aggregate limits, have increasingly sought payment from us for asbestos claims under the premises and operations coverages of their liability policies, which may not be subject to similar aggregate limits. We expect this trend to continue. To the extent either issue is resolved in favor of policyholders, our coverage obligations under the relevant policies would be materially increased and capped only by the applicable per occurrence limits and the number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders. Claims in these instances may vary significantly and policyholders may seek large amounts, although such claims frequently settle for a fraction of the initial alleged amount. Accordingly, it is difficult to predict the ultimate size of the claims for coverage not subject to aggregate limits. From time to time in recent years, the United States Congress has given consideration to legislative proposals that would address various issues connected with asbestos liability. While it is unclear whether any such proposals will be passed into law at any time in the near future, if at all, we cannot predict what impact, if any, such adopted legislation would have on our ultimate asbestos liability or on the NICO Cover. As of December 31, 2006, we had established gross loss and LAE reserves for environmental claims of $678.0 million. Approximately 99% of these loss and LAE reserves are covered under reinsurance arrangements. Our net reserves for environmental claims after giving effect to third party reinsurance, other than the NICO Cover was $394.6 million at December 31, 2006. Our net loss and LAE reserves for environmental claims after giving effect to both third party reinsurance and the NICO Cover aggregated $10.6 million as of December 31, 2006. Future exposure from environmental claims is uncertain, in part, for reasons similar to those described above for asbestos claims. 30 As a result of various state and Federal laws and regulations relating to environmental remediation, particularly the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, which is commonly referred to as Superfund, and related damages claims, the insurance industry continues to be involved in litigation involving policy coverage and liability issues. In addition to regulatory pressures, the results of court decisions affecting the industry’s coverage positions continue to be inconsistent and have expanded coverage beyond the industry’s original expectations. Accordingly, the ultimate liability for environmental costs remain uncertain and could exceed the coverage of our reinsurance arrangements. We may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance arrangements. Additionally, we may be unable to collect all amounts due from our reinsurers under our existing reinsurance arrangements. We attempt to limit our risk of loss through reinsurance arrangements. The availability and cost of reinsurance protection is subject to market conditions, which are outside of our control. In addition, the coverage under our reinsurance contracts may be inadequate to cover our future liabilities. As a result, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through these arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are not relieved of our obligation to our policyholders by purchasing reinsurance. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance in the event that a reinsurer is unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of a deterioration in its financial condition or if it simply is unwilling to pay due to a dispute or other factors beyond our control. A number of reinsurers in the industry experienced such a deterioration in the aftermath of the 2001 terrorist attacks and the active 2005 hurricane season. While several of our reinsurers were adversely affected by these events, and in some cases ceased writing new reinsurance coverages, the impact on our operations from these events has been negligible. In the future, it is possible that one or more of our reinsurers will be significantly adversely affected by significant loss events, causing them to be unable to pay amounts owed to us. Unpredictable catastrophic events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of unpredictable natural and other catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, windstorms, severe winter weather, earthquakes, floods, fires and explosions. In recent years, the frequency of major weather-related catastrophes has increased. Our exposure to catastrophic windstorm damage in the Northeastern United States is the largest single natural catastrophe risk to our business. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Increases in the value and concentrations of insured property, the effects of inflation and changes in cyclical weather patterns may increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. Claims from catastrophic events could reduce our earnings and cause substantial volatility in our results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year and adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to write new insurance policies could also be impacted as a result of corresponding reductions in our surplus levels. We manage our exposure to catastrophic losses by limiting the aggregate insured value of policies in geographic areas with exposure to catastrophic events, by estimating a probable maximum loss, which we refer to as PML, for many different catastrophe scenarios and by buying reinsurance. To manage and analyze aggregate insured values and PML, we use a variety of tools, including catastrophe modeling software. Our estimates of PML are dependent on many variables, including assumptions about the demand surge and storm surge, loss adjustment expenses, insurance-to-value and storm intensity in the aftermath of weather-related catastrophes utilized to model the event and the relationship of the actual event to the modeled event. Accordingly, if our assumptions about these variables are incorrect, the losses we might incur from an actual catastrophe could be materially higher than our expectation of losses 31 generated from modeled catastrophe scenarios, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. For example, in 2005, standard industry models for forecasting the losses resulting from hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma proved to be inadequate. We had losses of $69.1 million in 2005 resulting from those hurricanes, which exceeded our internal expectations by approximately $24 million. The total industry loss from 2005 catastrophes was over $80 billion with approximately $58 billion related to hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, which materially exceeded industry models. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we increased our estimates of ultimate incurred loss and LAE relating to hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma by $19.9 million. Future insurance and reinsurance coverage for terrorist acts is uncertain, and we may in the future have substantial exposure to such acts. We are unable to predict the extent to which our future insurance contracts will cover terrorist acts. We also are unsure how terrorist acts will be defined in our future contracts. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, or the Terrorism Act, which has been extended through the end of 2007, requires primary commercial insurers to make terrorism coverage available and provides Federal protection for certain losses above both individual company retention and industry retention levels. While we know of no reason that the Terrorism Act will not be extended for an additional period of time, there is no assurance that it will be extended or of the terms of any such extension. The following types of coverage are excluded from the program: commercial automobile, burglary and theft, surety, farmowners, multi-peril and all professional liability coverages except directors and officers coverage. Our current property and casualty catastrophe reinsurance programs provide coverage for us for “non-certified” events as defined under the Terrorism Act, provided such losses are not the result of a nuclear, biological or chemical attack. Nonetheless, risks insured by us, including those covered by the Terrorism Act, remain exposed to terrorist attacks and the possibility remains that losses resulting from future terrorist attacks could prove to be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Any increase in interest rates or volatility in the equity and debt markets could result in significant losses in the fair value of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio consists of fixed maturity securities, short-term investments, common equity securities and other investments such as hedge funds, limited partnerships and private equities. Our investment selections are designed to maximize after-tax, total risk-adjusted return over the long term; however, investing entails substantial risks. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objectives, and our investment performance may vary substantially over time. Investment returns are an important part of our growth in book value, and fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our results of operations or financial condition. A significant period of time normally elapses between the receipt of insurance premiums and the disbursement of insurance claims. During this time, we generate investment income, consisting primarily of interest earned on fixed maturity investments and dividends earned on equity securities, by investing our capital as well as insurance premiums allocated to support unpaid loss and LAE reserves. We also recognize unrealized investment gains and losses on the securities we hold in our investment portfolio and we generate investment gains and losses from sales of securities from our investment portfolio. The investment income and fair market value of our investment portfolio are affected by general economic and market conditions, including fluctuations in interest rates and volatility in the stock market. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we attempt to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively 32 mitigate interest rate sensitivity. In particular, a significant increase in interest rates could result in significant losses, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, we are exposed to changes in the level or volatility of equity prices that affect the value of securities or instruments that derive their value from a particular equity security, a basket of equity securities or a stock index. These conditions are outside of our control and could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations and financial condition. We are highly dependent on White Mountains Advisors, LLC (WM Advisors) and Prospector Partners, LLC (Prospector) in connection with the management of our investment portfolio. Subsequent to the initial public offering, under agreements dated as of November 14, 2006, WM Advisors supervises and directs the fixed income and alternative investment portion of OneBeacon’s investment portfolio and Prospector supervises and directs the publicly-traded common equity and convertible securities portion of OneBeacon’s investment portfolio. The agreements both provide for an initial fixed term of three years, which will be extendible by us for an additional year (a fourth year) at or prior to the end of the second year of the term, and if so extended, for a second additional year (a fifth year) at or prior to the end of the third year of the term. If we lose our investment relationship with WM Advisors or with Prospector, we may not be able to secure an investment advisor or advisors who will produce returns on our investments similar to these produced by WM Advisors and Prospector in the past, or any positive returns at all. We may not maintain favorable financial strength ratings, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct business. We may not maintain favorable financial strength ratings, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the financial strength, including claims-paying ability, of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies and are subject to revision at any time at the sole discretion of the agencies. Some of the criteria relate to general economic conditions and other circumstances outside the rated company’s control. These financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, agents and brokers as an important means of assessing the suitability of insurers as business counterparties and have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. These financial strength ratings do not refer to our ability to meet non-insurance obligations and are not a recommendation to purchase or discontinue any policy or contract issued by us or to buy, hold or sell our securities. Our current financial strength ratings are “A” (“Excellent,” third highest of 15 ratings) by A. M. Best Company, Inc., “A” (“Strong,” sixth highest of 19 ratings) by Standard & Poor’s Rating Service, “A2” (“Good,” sixth highest of 21 ratings) by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and “A” (“Strong,” sixth highest of 24 ratings) by Fitch, Inc. Periodically, the rating agencies evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to us. A downgrade or withdrawal of our financial strength ratings could limit or prevent our insurance subsidiaries from writing new insurance policies or renewing existing insurance policies, which would have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our debt, preferred stock and related service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2006, we had $759.5 million face value of indebtedness and $320.0 million face value of mandatorily redeemable preferred stock outstanding. We have established and funded trusts that are solely dedicated to the payment of dividends and redemption amounts of our outstanding mandatorily redeemable preferred stock with the deposit of U.S. government securities. Our ability to meet our debt and related service obligations, as well as our ability to pay a dividend on our common shares, will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow 33 us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough cash, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more cash or sell equity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We could incur additional indebtedness and issue additional preferred stock in the future. To the extent new debt, new preferred stock and other obligations are added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt and preferred stock levels, the risks described in the previous paragraph would increase. We are a holding company with no direct operations, and our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to us is restricted by law. As a holding company with no direct operations and whose only significant assets are the capital stock of our subsidiaries, we rely on net investment income and dividends and other permitted payments from our subsidiaries to pay our expenses. Our subsidiaries may not be able to generate cash flow sufficient to pay a dividend or distribute funds to us. In addition, applicable state laws that regulate the payment of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries could prohibit such dividends or distributions. Under the insurance laws of the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, an insurer is restricted with respect to the timing or the amount of dividends it may pay without prior approval by regulatory authorities. Generally, our regulated operating subsidiaries have the ability to pay dividends during any 12-month period, without having to obtain the prior approval of regulatory authorities, in an amount equal to the greater of statutory net income for the preceding year or 10% of statutory surplus as of the end of the preceding year, subject to the availability of unassigned funds. As a result, based on 2006 statutory net income, our top tier regulated operating subsidiaries have the ability to pay an aggregate of approximately $234 million of dividends during 2007 without having to obtain prior approval of regulatory authorities, subject to the availability of unassigned funds. As of December 31, 2006, our top tier regulated operating subsidiaries had $1.6 billion of unassigned funds available for dividend distribution. Management believes that our cash balances, cash flows from operations and cash flows from investments are adequate to meet expected cash requirements for the foreseeable future on both a holding company and operating subsidiary level. However, if our insurance subsidiaries cannot pay dividends in future periods, beginning in 2008, we may have difficulty servicing our debt, paying dividends on our common shares and meeting our holding company expenses. For additional information relating to insurance regulations governing our operations, see “Regulatory Matters.” The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive and has, from time to time, experienced severe price competition. Competition in the personal auto insurance business line, for example, is intensifying and rate pressures in the auto industry are expected to continue. We compete with numerous regional and national insurance companies, including The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc., Zurich Financial Services Group, CNA Financial Corporation, Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., The Hanover Insurance Group, Inc., W.R. Berkley Corporation, The Chubb Corporation, The Progressive Corporation, Allstate Insurance Company, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company and American International Group, Inc. Many of these competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do and have established long-term and continuing business relationships throughout the insurance industry, which can be a significant competitive advantage for them. 34 In addition, the agents whom we rely upon compete with direct writers of insurance, who are often able to offer substantial discounts in pricing as compared to our insurance products. If our agents experience increased competition from direct writers of insurance, we in turn could be adversely affected if they are unable to maintain a competitive position in their respective markets. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may suffer losses from unfavorable outcomes from litigation and other legal proceedings. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to litigation and other legal proceedings as part of the claims process, the outcomes of which are uncertain. We maintain reserves for these legal proceedings as part of our loss and LAE reserves. We also maintain separate reserves for legal proceedings that are not related to the claims process. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more legal matters, our ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts we have currently reserved for and such additional amounts may be material to our results of operations and financial condition. For a description of our material legal proceedings, see “Business—Legal Proceedings.” As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number and size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. Our profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation and legislative actions and judicial decisions. The effects of inflation could cause claim costs to rise in the future. In addition, judicial decisions and legislative actions continue to broaden liability and policy definitions and to increase the severity of claim payments, such as described above with respect to asbestos and environmental claims. To the extent inflation and these legislative actions and judicial decisions cause claim costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss and LAE reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Regulation may restrict our ability to operate. The insurance industry is subject to extensive regulation under U.S. and state laws. Governmental agencies have broad administrative power to regulate many aspects of the insurance business, which include premium rates, marketing practices, advertising, policy forms and capital adequacy. These governmental agencies are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. Insurance laws and regulations impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments, prescribe solvency standards that must be met and maintained and require the maintenance of reserves. Premium rate regulation is common across all of our lines of business and may make it difficult for us to increase premiums to adequately reflect the cost of providing insurance coverage to our policyholders. In our underwriting, we rely heavily upon information gathered from third parties such as credit report agencies and other data aggregators. The use of this information is also highly regulated and any changes to the current regulatory structure could materially affect how we underwrite and price premiums. Changes in the laws and regulations may restrict our ability to operate and/or have an adverse effect upon the profitability of our business within a given jurisdiction. For example, legislation has been recently passed in Florida that significantly changes reinsurance protection provided by the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe fund to companies that write business in Florida. The new legislation also contains a provision that will disallow insurers to write automobile insurance in Florida and write homeowners insurance elsewhere in the U.S. unless they begin to write homeowners insurance in Florida. We cannot determine what the impact of the new legislation will be upon our business in Florida, and the impact could be adverse, depending on how this provision is interpreted and how regulations are promulgated. In addition, 35 state and Federal legislation has been proposed on catastrophe funds and underwriting in coastal areas which could impact our business. Government authorities are continuing to investigate the insurance industry, which may adversely affect our business. Recently, the insurance industry has been heavily scrutinized by various regulatory bodies, including State Attorneys General and state insurance departments, for alleged illegal conduct surrounding a number of topics, including producer compensation arrangements and the sale and use of finite reinsurance. For example, during 2004 and 2005, we received subpoenas from the Attorneys General of Massachusetts, New York and Connecticut requesting documents and seeking information relating to the conduct of business between us and insurance brokers. We have cooperated with all of these subpoenas and information requests. These investigations of the insurance industry, whether involving our company specifically or not, together with any legal or regulatory proceedings related settlement, or industry reforms, may materially adversely affect our business and future prospects. We may be unable to collect amounts utilized to capitalize reciprocals. Since 2002, we have capitalized three member-owned, not-for-profit insurance associations, which we refer to as reciprocals, by loaning money to them in exchange for surplus notes. As of December 31, 2006, we have loaned an aggregate of $125.9 million, including $0.2 million loaned in the form of a security deposit, to the three reciprocals. These three associations are currently consolidated in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, the surplus notes and the security deposit have been eliminated in consolidation. In the future, depending on their financial success, these associations could be deconsolidated. At such time, the surplus notes would be reflected as notes receivable on our balance sheet. Amounts utilized to capitalize reciprocals can be difficult to extract as repayment of principal and interest is subject to regulatory approval. If any reciprocal is unable to cover its ultimate liability for loss and LAE or is unable to obtain insurance regulatory approval to repay us, we would be unable to collect amounts owed under the related surplus note. In addition, while we have no legal obligation to loan further funds to these reciprocals, even in the event their capital becomes depleted, we may decide that it is in our best interest to provide the reciprocal with additional capital, thereby increasing our loss exposure. A failure to attract and retain key personnel could reduce our revenues and operational effectiveness. Our performance substantially depends on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key employees. Furthermore, much of our competitive advantage is based on the expertise, experience and know-how of our key management personnel. We do not have fixed term employment agreements with any of these key employees nor key man life insurance and the loss of one or more of these key employees could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends on the ability to hire and retain additional key personnel such as experienced underwriters. Difficulty in hiring or retaining key personnel could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We have no experience operating as a stand-alone company and we may not be successful operating as a stand-alone company. Prior to our initial public offering, OneBeacon was a wholly-owned subsidiary of White Mountains. As a wholly-owned subsidiary, OneBeacon relied on White Mountains personnel for expertise in certain areas, including capital management, internal auditing and investor relations. Now that we are a stand-alone public company, we must provide these services internally or through outsourcing, and we may not be able to do so successfully. In addition, we have benefited from being a subsidiary of a well-financed, publicly-traded company. Following the initial public offering, we continue to be a significant subsidiary of White Mountains, 36 however we may gradually lose the benefit of being part of the White Mountains group, especially to the extent White Mountains elects to further sell down its position in our common shares. Accordingly, customers, agents, rating agencies and investors will assess our strengths and weaknesses independently, and this may have a negative effect upon our ability to attract new business and raise additional capital. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a newly public company, we are and we will incur significant levels of legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a wholly-owned subsidiary of White Mountains. The U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, particularly Section 404, and related rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, regulate corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect that compliance with these public company requirements will increase our costs and make some activities more time-consuming than they have been in the past when we were wholly-owned by White Mountains. While we have spent considerable time and resources assisting our public parent in complying with public company regulations, we will incur all expenses ourselves going forward. Furthermore, the cost of compliance, while not material to White Mountains on a consolidated basis, could be material to us because of our smaller size and scale of operations. Our written premiums are heavily concentrated in the Northeastern United States. Our revenues and profitability for the foreseeable future will be substantially impacted by prevailing regulatory, economic, demographic, competitive, weather and other conditions in the Northeastern United States. Changes in any of these conditions could make it more costly or more difficult to conduct our business. We are particularly exposed to Northeast windstorm risks. In 2006, 63% of our net written premiums were derived from our Primary Insurance Operations in New York, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Maine and Connecticut. Mandated market mechanisms may require us to underwrite policies with a higher risk of loss and assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds and second-injury funds may reduce our profitability. We are often required to participate directly or indirectly in mandatory shared market mechanisms as a condition of our licenses to do business in certain states. These markets, which are commonly referred to as “residual” or “involuntary” markets, generally consist of risks considered to be undesirable from a standard or routine underwriting perspective. In 2006, approximately 2% of our net written premiums related to our participation in mandatory shared market mechanisms. Underwriting performance related to assigned risk plans, a form of mandated market mechanism, is typically adverse and, as a result, we are required to underwrite some policies with a higher risk of loss than we would normally accept. Each state dictates the level of insurance coverage that is mandatorily assigned to participating insurers within these markets. Our participation in mandatory shared market mechanisms is principally concentrated in the States of Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York. In certain states, such as New York, the amount of involuntary policies we are obligated to write in a given year is based on our historical market share of all voluntary policies written within that state. The share of involuntary written premium for policies assigned by the New York Automobile Insurance Plan, or NYAIP, a residual insurance plan that obtains personal automobile insurance for individuals who cannot otherwise obtain insurance in the voluntary insurance market, to a particular insurer in a given year is based on the proportion of the total voluntary writings in New York two years earlier. We estimate the cost of discharging our obligation for our NYAIP assignments as of December 31, 2006 to be $13.0 million and we have recorded this estimate as a liability in our consolidated financial statements. Our participation in assigned risk plans may result in greater liabilities than we anticipate and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 37 In addition, virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some insureds as the result of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These guaranty funds are funded by assessments that are expected to increase in the future as a result of recent insolvencies. Many states also have laws that established second-injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury which are funded by either assessments based on paid losses or premium surcharge mechanisms. The effect of these assessments and surcharges or changes in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. Cyclicality of the property and casualty insurance industry may cause fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. The property and casualty insurance business, especially the commercial lines business, has been historically characterized by periods of intense price competition, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Periods of intense price competition historically have alternated with periods when shortages of underwriting capacity have permitted attractive premium levels. Any significant decrease in the rates we can charge for property and casualty insurance would adversely affect our results. In the late 1990s, the property and casualty insurance industry experienced a prolonged period of downward pressure on prices caused by excess underwriting capacity and intense competition. Although premium rates we achieved during 2004 and 2005 were significantly improved over those achieved in prior years, an increase in competitive factors resulting from additional capital entering the property and casualty insurance market may cause current favorable pricing trends to reverse. Our personal lines business is particularly affected by the cyclicality of loss cost trends. Factors that affect loss cost trends in automobile underwriting include inflation in the cost of automobile repairs, medical care, litigation of liability claims, improved automobile safety features, legislative changes and general economic conditions. Factors that affect loss costs trends in homeowners underwriting include inflation in the cost of building materials and labor costs and demand caused by weather-related catastrophes. Personal lines insurers, including us, are generally unable to increase premium rates until some time after the costs associated with the coverage have increased, primarily as a result of state insurance regulation laws. Therefore, in a period of increasing loss costs, profit margins decline. We expect to continue to experience the effects of this cyclicality which, during down periods, could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or available to us on favorable terms. Raising additional capital could dilute your ownership in our company and may cause the market price of our common shares to fall. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: · fund liquidity needs; · replace capital lost in the event of a catastrophe or adverse reserve development; · refinance $700 million aggregate principal amount of our senior notes; · satisfy letter of credit or guarantee bond requirements that may be imposed by our clients or by regulators; · acquire new businesses or invest in existing businesses; · expand our business into new regions and countries; or · otherwise respond to competitive pressures. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity will dilute your ownership percentage in our company and may decrease the market price of our common shares. Furthermore, the securities may have 38 rights, preferences and privileges that are senior or otherwise superior to those of our common shares. Any additional financing we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Risks Relating to Our Relationship with White Mountains Control of us by White Mountains and the holding of White Mountains shares by some of our directors and officers may result in conflicts of interest. White Mountains beneficially owns all of our Class B common shares, representing 96.3% of the voting power of our voting securities and 72.4% of our total equity. As long as White Mountains owns shares of our common shares representing more than 50% of the voting power of our outstanding voting securities, White Mountains will generally be able to determine the outcome of all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors. Furthermore, we are relying on the “controlled company” exemption under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, and are therefore not required to have a majority of independent directors on our board. Of the ten directors that we have on our Board, six are current or former employees, directors or officers of White Mountains. White Mountains also has control over the adoption or amendment of provisions in our memorandum of association or bye-laws and the approval of amalgamations, mergers, and other significant corporate transactions. Furthermore, White Mountains will continue to be able to exercise this control as long as their economic equity ownership in us is at least 20%. These factors also may delay or prevent a change in the management or voting control of us. Also, at some time in the future, White Mountains may sell all or a portion of its ownership interest in us or may make a tax-free distribution to its shareholders of all or a portion of that interest. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between us and White Mountains in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Certain of our directors and a number of our executive officers may own substantial amounts of White Mountains stock and may also be directors or officers of White Mountains from time to time. Their ownership of White Mountains stock and these other relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and White Mountains. These potential conflicts could arise, for example, over matters such as the desirability of an acquisition opportunity, employee retention or recruiting, or our dividend policy. White Mountains may compete with us and the involvement of those individuals who are directors and officers of White Mountains and directors of ours in resolving matters relating to such competition will not constitute a breach of fiduciary duty to us. Our bye-laws provide that White Mountains will have no obligation to refrain from: · engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as we do; or · doing business with any of our clients or customers. Because White Mountains may currently or in the future engage in the same activities in which we engage, we may be in direct competition with White Mountains. While White Mountains has indicated to us that its current expectation is to manage its activities such that opportunities to acquire specialty businesses will be pursued through OneBeacon, White Mountains is not legally obligated to do so and could in the future manage its activities in a different way. Due to the resources of White Mountains, including financial resources, name recognition and knowledge of our strengths, weaknesses and business practices, White Mountains could have a competitive advantage over us should it decide to engage in the type of business we conduct, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The corporate opportunity policy included in our bye-laws addresses potential conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and White Mountains and its officers and directors who are also our 39 directors, on the other hand. These provisions are designed to resolve conflicts between us and White Mountains. Under our bye-laws, it is not a breach of fiduciary duty on the part of any of our officers and directors by reason of their participation in any of the above described activities. Transitional and other arrangements with White Mountains may not be on arm’s length terms. In connection with the initial public offering, we have entered into certain contractual arrangements with White Mountains and its affiliates. These agreements were made in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship. For example, some of our investments are managed pursuant to an investment management agreement on a discretionary basis by a registered investment adviser which is owned by White Mountains. In connection with the offering, we have secured a new multi-year investment management contract with this adviser. While we are satisfied with the terms of such arrangement, we cannot confirm that such terms are as favorable to us as they might have been had we contracted with an independent advisor. On the other hand, after the expiration of this agreement, we may not be able to replace these investment services in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including cost, that are comparable to those we receive from White Mountains, and we may have to pay higher prices for similar services from unaffiliated third parties. Refinancing of our senior notes may occur on unfavorable terms. In connection with the initial public offering, we have entered into an agreement with White Mountains pursuant to which White Mountains will continue to guarantee the senior notes of our subsidiary, Fund American, for a specified fee in the amount of 25 basis points per annum on the outstanding principal amount of the senior notes. We have further agreed that if White Mountains’ voting interest in our common shares ceases to represent more than 50% of all our voting securities, we will seek to redeem, exchange or otherwise modify the senior notes in order to fully and permanently eliminate White Mountains’ obligations under its guarantee. White Mountains and its subsidiaries beneficially own all of our outstanding Class B common shares, representing 96.3% of the voting power of our voting securities. If we have not successfully eliminated the guarantee within 180 days upon notice of the triggering of the voting interest condition, the guarantee fee will increase by 200 basis points. The guarantee fee will further increase by 100 basis points for each subsequent 90 day period thereafter, up to a maximum guarantee fee of 425 basis points, until White Mountains’ obligations under its guarantee have been extinguished. This arrangement could require us to devote significant time and expense trying to refinance the senior notes and we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. For more information on these and other arrangements with White Mountains, see Note 18 to the Company’s financial statements. Risks That Relate to Taxes We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016. We have received a standard assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance, under Bermuda’s Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or our shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. In the event that we become subject to any Bermuda tax after such date, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 40 Changes in tax laws or tax treaties may cause more of the income of certain non-U.S. companies in our group to become subject to taxes in the United States. The taxable income of our U.S. subsidiaries is subject to U.S. Federal, state and local income tax and other taxes. The income of the non-U.S. companies in our group is generally not subject to tax in the United States other than withholding taxes on interest and dividends. Certain of our non-U.S. companies are eligible for the benefits of tax treaties between the United States and other countries. We believe our non-U.S. companies will continue to be eligible for treaty benefits. However, it is possible that factual changes or changes to U.S. tax laws or changes to tax treaties that presently apply to our non-U.S. companies could impact income subject to tax in the United States. Similarly, changes to the applicable tax laws, treaties or regulations of other countries could subject the income of members of our group to higher rates of tax outside the United States. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this report, the Company had no unresolved written comments from the Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 