D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks. These risks could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends 5 Table of Contents and cause the trading price of our shares to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends. Risks Related to Our Financial Information The historical financial information included in this Annual Report for periods prior to December 19, 2006, the completion of our IPO, does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved during the periods presented as a stand-alone company, and therefore may not be a reliable indicator of our future financial performance or ability to pay dividends. We completed our IPO and commenced independent operations on December 19, 2006. As a result, we have a limited independent operating history, and our prospects and ability to pay dividends must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered when any new business is formed. The historical financial information included in this Annual Report for periods prior to December 19, 2006, the completion of our IPO, does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a stand-alone company during the periods presented or that we will achieve in the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • The historical combined financial information included in this Annual Report for periods prior to our IPO does not reflect our ongoing cost structure, management, financing costs or business operations. Instead, this combined financial information represents the combination of results attributable to some of the aircraft included in our initial portfolio of 41 aircraft as owned, managed, financed and operated by GECAS and its affiliates. Following our acquisition of the initial portfolio, the cost of financing and operating these aircraft has changed due to: • the fact that the historical financial information for periods prior to the completion of our IPO reflects allocations of corporate expenses from affiliates of GE and GECAS to our initial portfolio. These allocations are different from the comparable expenses we incur as a stand-alone public company due to a number of factors, including the likelihood that we are not able to realize economies-of-scale and negotiating leverage achieved by GE and GECAS; • the need for additional personnel and service providers to perform services previously provided by GECAS and other affiliates of GE; and • legal, accounting, compliance and other costs associated with being a public company with listed equity, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE; and • the fact that the historical combined financial information prior to our IPO reflects only the number of aircraft included in our initial portfolio owned by affiliates of GE for the periods or as of the dates specified therein, rather than all of the aircraft currently included in our portfolio. • Our predecessor’s working capital requirements were satisfied as part of GE’s corporate-wide cash management policies. Although we have access to a credit facility for the acquisition of additional aircraft, we may not be able to obtain financing on terms as favorable as our predecessor obtained from or through GE and our cost of debt will likely be higher. • The depreciation of capitalized major maintenance costs and our maintenance expenses are higher than reflected in the historical financial information due to the aging of our aircraft. • Our effective tax rate is lower than our predecessor’s as a result of our tax residency in Ireland. Our cash tax payments are also lower as a result of our ability to depreciate aircraft under Irish tax law over eight years, which is a more accelerated rate than our predecessor used to depreciate aircraft under U.S. tax law. 6 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries in many cases have owned their aircraft prior to our acquisition of them and may have unknown contingent liabilities that we may be required to fund. There is a risk that our subsidiaries, many of which have owned their aircraft in our portfolio prior to our acquisition of such subsidiaries, could have material contingent liabilities that are unknown to us and that were incurred by third parties from operating and leasing the aircraft in our portfolio or for other reasons. Affiliates of GE, from which we acquired certain aircraft in our portfolio, have made representations and warranties relating to: • the existence of a valid and final transfer of the beneficial interests of entities that hold the aircraft or entities that hold the beneficial interests of any such entities and that were sold to us by affiliates of GE; • the title of our aircraft-owning subsidiaries to the applicable aircraft; and • the lack of additional liabilities of our aircraft-owning subsidiaries or liens on the aircraft other than disclosed to us or otherwise permitted. These representations and warranties are subject to time limits. If a liability arises and we are called on to pay it but are not able to recover any amount from the sellers for such liability, our liquidity could decrease significantly and we may be unable to pay dividends to our shareholders. Risks Related to Our Dividend Policy We may not be able to pay or maintain dividends on our shares. The failure to do so would adversely affect the trading price of our shares. There are a number of factors that could affect our ability to pay dividends, including, but not limited to, the following: • lack of availability of cash to pay dividends due to changes in our operating cash flow, capital expenditure requirements, working capital requirements and other cash needs; • our inability to refinance the notes that we have issued in the securitization before December 2011, when we will be required to apply all available cash flow from our initial portfolio to repay the principal amount thereof on a monthly basis; • our inability to make acquisitions of additional aircraft that are accretive to cash flow; • our inability to renew, extend or repay our senior credit facility before April 2010 and to comply with the covenants in our senior credit facility, which could prevent Genesis Acquisition from making any distributions to us; • application of funds to make and finance acquisitions of aircraft and other aviation assets; • our inability to make acquisitions of additional aircraft that are accretive to cash flow; • reduced levels of demand for, or value of, our aircraft; • increased supply of aircraft; • obsolescence of aircraft; • lower lease rates on new aircraft and re-leased aircraft; • delays in re-leasing our aircraft after the expiration or early termination of existing leases; • impaired financial condition and liquidity of our lessees; • deterioration of economic conditions in the commercial aviation industry generally; • unexpected or increased fees and expenses payable under our agreements with GECAS and its affiliates and other service providers; 7 Table of Contents • poor performance by GECAS and its affiliates and other service providers and our limited rights to terminate them; • unexpected or increased maintenance, operating or other expenses or changes in the timing thereof; • a decision by our board of directors to modify or revoke its policy to distribute a portion of our cash flow available for distribution; • restrictions imposed by our financing arrangements, including under the notes issued in the securitization, our credit facility and any indebtedness incurred in the future to refinance our existing debt or to expand our aircraft portfolio; • changes in Irish tax law, the tax treaty between the United States and Ireland (the ‘‘Irish Treaty’’) or our ability to qualify for the benefits of such treaty; • cash reserves established by our board of directors; • restrictions under Bermuda law on the amount of dividends that we may pay; and • the other risks discussed under this Item 3.D. ‘‘Risk Factors.’’ The failure to maintain or pay dividends may adversely affect the trading price of our shares. See Item 8. ‘‘Financial Information.’’ We are a holding and a financing company and rely on our subsidiaries to provide us with funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends. We are a holding and a financing company and our principal asset is the equity interests we hold in our subsidiaries that hold our aircraft. As a result, we depend on dividends and other payments from these subsidiaries and from any other subsidiaries through which we may conduct operations in the future, to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends on our shares. The subsidiaries that hold our aircraft are legally distinct from us and are significantly restricted from paying dividends or otherwise making funds available to us pursuant to agreements governing our indebtedness. Any other subsidiaries through which we may conduct operations in the future will also be legally distinct from us and may be similarly restricted from paying dividends or otherwise making funds available to us under certain conditions. Our subsidiaries will generally be required to service their debt obligations before making distributions to us, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available to pay dividends, fund working capital, make capital expenditures and satisfy other needs. Commencing December 2011, Genesis Funding will be required to apply all of its available cash flow to repay the principal of the securitization notes. If Genesis Funding’s debt service coverage ratio (as defined in the indenture for the securitization notes) is less than 1.80 to 1.00 on any two consecutive monthly payment dates occurring between November 2009 and November 2011, Genesis Funding will be required to apply all of its available cash flow to repay the principal of the securitization notes. If Genesis Funding has not refinanced the notes prior to being required to apply all available cash flow to repay the principal amount of the notes, then the cash flow from the aircraft in our initial portfolio of 41 aircraft will not be available to us to pay dividends or to finance acquisitions of additional aircraft. The commitments under our credit facility are available until April 2010, at which time Genesis Acquisition will have the option to convert any outstanding amount under the credit facility to a term loan with a two-year maturity. If Genesis Acquisition does not exercise this option, then the outstanding amount under the credit facility at such time will be due on such date. In addition, if Genesis Acquisition’s ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (‘‘EBITDA’’) to interest expense for any trailing period of three consecutive months fails to exceed 1.1, then Genesis Acquisition will be required to apply all of its available cash flow to repay any outstanding principal under the credit facility. 8 Table of Contents We own aircraft through subsidiaries, and our rights to our aircraft are structurally subordinated to the rights of the creditors of those subsidiaries. Our rights to the aircraft owned by our subsidiaries are structurally subordinated to the rights of the creditors of these subsidiaries. This means that the creditors of our subsidiaries will be paid from their assets, including all of our aircraft and other aviation assets, before we would have any claims to those assets. Other Risks Related to Our Business Under our current business model, we will need additional capital to finance our growth, and we may not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which may limit our ability to grow and compete in the aviation market. Our liquidity needs include the financing of acquisition of additional aircraft and other aviation assets that we expect will drive our growth. We plan to finance acquisitions through borrowings under our credit facility and additional equity and debt offerings, which may include securitizations of our aircraft and other leases. Our ability to execute our business strategy to acquire these additional assets depends to a significant degree on our ability to access debt and equity capital markets. Our access to these markets will depend on a number of factors, such as our historical and expected performance, compliance with the terms of our debt agreements, industry and market trends, the availability of capital, the cost of capital in debt and equity markets and the relative attractiveness of alternative investments. Recent turmoil in the financial markets caused by losses related to sub-prime lending has caused banks and financial institutions to decrease the amount of capital available for lending. If we are unable to raise funds through debt and equity capital markets on terms that are acceptable to us, then we may be unable to implement our growth strategy of making acquisitions of additional aircraft and other aviation assets that are accretive to cash flow. Further, if additional c apital is raised through the issuance of additional equity securities, the ownership interest of our existing common shareholders would be diluted. Unforeseen difficulties and costs associated with the acquisition, financing and/or management of our aircraft portfolio and other aviation assets could reduce or prevent our future growth and profitability. Our growth strategy contemplates future acquisitions and leasing of additional commercial aircraft and other aviation assets. There is currently high market demand for certain aircraft, and we may encounter difficulties in acquiring aircraft on favorable terms or at all, including increased competition for assets, which could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. A significant increase in market interest rates would make it more difficult for us to make accretive acquisitions that would increase our distributable cash flows. Any acquisition of aircraft or other aviation assets may not be profitable to us after the acquisition and may not generate sufficient cash flow to justify our investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including risks that we may: • fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships or cash flow enhancements; • impair our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage to the extent we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; • incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the aircraft or other aviation assets that we acquire; • incur other significant charges, including asset impairment or restructuring charges; or • be unable to maintain our ability to pay regular dividends to our shareholders. 9 Table of Contents Unlike new aircraft, existing aircraft typically do not carry warranties as to their conditions (although certain manufacturer warranties may still be effective and assignable when the aircraft is purchased). Although we may inspect an existing aircraft and its documented maintenance, usage, lease and other records prior to acquisition, such an inspection normally would not provide us with as much knowledge of an aircraft’s condition as we would have if it had been built for us. In addition, we may not have the opportunity to inspect each aircraft that we acquire. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing aircraft are difficult to predict and generally increase as aircraft age and may have been adversely affected by prior use. These costs could decrease our cash flow and reduce our liquidity and our ability to pay regular dividends to our shareholders. The death, incapacity or departure of senior management could harm our business and financial results. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon our chief executive officer, John McMahon, our chief financial officer, Alan Jenkins, and our chief commercial officer, Cian Dooley. Mr. McMahon has substantial experience in the aviation industry, and his continued employment is crucial to the development of our business strategy and to the growth and development of our business. Mr. Jenkins and Mr. Dooley also have significant experience in the aviation industry on which we depend. If Mr. McMahon, Mr. Jenkins or Mr. Dooley were to die, become incapacitated for a short or long period, or leave our company, we may not be able to replace each of them, respectively, as the case may be, with another chief executive officer, chief financial officer or chief commercial officer with equivalent talent and experience, and our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may suffer. Because we have a limited staff, the impact of any of Mr. McMahon’s, Mr. Jenkins’s or Mr. Dooley’s departure could be severe to our business. We are subject to financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy. Upon the completion of our IPO, we became obligated to file with the SEC periodic reports that are specified in Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and we are required to ensure that we have the ability to prepare financial statements that are compliant with all SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis. Upon completion of our IPO, we also became subject to requirements of the NYSE and certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the regulations promulgated thereunder applicable to foreign private issuers, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. Pursuant to such obligations we are required to, among other things: • prepare periodic reports, including financial statements, in compliance with our obligations under U.S. federal securities laws and NYSE rules; • maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; • establish an investor relations function; and • establish internal compliance policies, such as those relating to insider trading. If we fail to implement the requirements with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, then our financial statements could contain material misstatements or omissions, we could have material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting and our financial statements may not be published in a timely fashion, any of which could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and have an adverse effect on the trading price of our shares. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We may not be able to refinance the notes issued by Genesis Funding or renew, extend or repay our senior credit facility on favorable terms or at all, which may require us to seek more costly or dilutive financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. We currently intend to refinance the notes issued by Genesis Funding in the securitization through a further securitization or other long-term financing prior to December 2011, five years after the completion of our IPO after which we will be required to apply all of the available cash flow from our initial portfolio to repay the principal thereon. The commitments under our credit facility are available until April 2010, at which time the outstanding amount under the credit facility will be due for repayment, unless we exercise the option to convert any outstanding amount under the credit facility to a term loan with a two-year maturity. We bear the risk that we will not be able to refinance our existing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. The inability to refinance our securitization indebtedness or our credit facility may require us to seek more costly or dilutive financing for our aircraft or to liquidate assets. If we are not able to refinan ce indebtedness to repay the principal thereon and, as a result, excess cash available for dividends is reduced or eliminated, then our ability to continue paying dividends to our shareholders will be adversely affected if we have not developed sufficient additional sources of cash flow to replace the cash flows that will be applied to such principal amortization. We are subject to risks related to our indebtedness that may limit our operational flexibility and our ability to pay dividends on our shares. Our credit facility and the terms of the notes issued in the securitization subject us to certain risks and operational restrictions, including: • our aircraft leases and several of our aircraft serve as collateral for our credit facility or the notes issued in the securitization, the terms of which restrict our ability to sell aircraft and require us to use proceeds from sales of aircraft, in part, to repay amounts outstanding under those notes; • we are required to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available to pay dividends, fund working capital, make capital expenditures and satisfy other needs; • restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute excess cash flow to us under certain circumstances; • lessee, geographical and other concentration limits on flexibility in leasing our aircraft; • requirements to obtain policy provider consents and rating agency confirmations for certain actions; and • restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt, create liens on assets, sell assets, make freighter conversions and make certain investments or capital expenditures. The restrictions described above may impair our ability to operate and to compete effectively with our competitors. Similar restrictions may be contained in the terms of future financings that we may enter into to finance our growth, including our credit facility. The notes issued in the securitization and our credit facility are subject to interest rate risk, which could impair our ability to pay dividends to you. The notes that Genesis Funding issued in the securitization and Genesis Acquisition’s credit facility have floating interest rates, which subjects us to the risk of an increase in interest rates and to the risk that our cash flows may be insufficient to make scheduled interest payments on the notes and the credit facility if interest rates were to increase. In addition, some of our leases have lease rentals that are tied to six-month LIBOR. To limit the risks of interest rate fluctuations, we have entered into interest rate swaps or other interest rate hedging arrangements. If any counterparty to the interest 11 Table of Contents rate hedging arrangements were to default on its obligations, then a mismatch in the floating rate interest obligations and fixed rate lease payments may arise. This could impair both Genesis Funding’s and Genesis Acquisition’s ability to make distributions to us, which could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends to our shareholders. Risks Related to Our Relationships with GECAS, Its Affiliates and Other Service Providers We depend on GECAS to service our portfolio and additional aircraft that we acquire in the future. We were formed in 2006 and had thirteen permanent employees as of December 31, 2007, as well as seven consultants who work with us on a contract basis. Our business strategy involves outsourcing our servicing and remarketing of aircraft to GECAS. Our initial business operations consisted of owning and leasing a portfolio of aircraft acquired from affiliates of GE. These aircraft assets were previously owned, managed and leased by GE and its affiliates as part of their larger aircraft leasing enterprise. We do not have the same infrastructure as GECAS to support these aircraft assets, and we continue to rely on GECAS for the servicing of our aircraft. Pursuant to our servicing agreements, GECAS provides us with a variety of services, including collecting rents and other payments from the lessees of our aircraft, monitoring maintenance, insurance and other obligations under our leases, enforcing rights against lessees, remarketing aircraft for re-lease o r sale and other aircraft-related services. GECAS has a high level of autonomy in its servicing of our aircraft, and our operational success, revenues, aircraft and lease related costs and ability to execute our growth strategy depend significantly on GECAS’s satisfactory performance of these services. GECAS’s failure to perform these services satisfactorily would significantly impair our ability to maximize our lease or sale income, monitor our lessees’ compliance with their lease obligations and/or comply with our contractual obligations under our leases. Our rights to terminate the servicing agreements are limited. In particular, we have no right to terminate GECAS as servicer simply because it is performing unsatisfactorily. See ‘‘— Even if we are dissatisfied with GECAS’s performance, there are only limited circumstances under which we will be able to terminate the servicing agreements and we may not terminate the servicing agreement for our initial portfolio wi thout the prior written consent of the policy provider.’’ GECAS is not obligated to service all aircraft that we acquire in the future. The servicing agreements provide that GECAS may decline to accept newly acquired aircraft for servicing for a number of specified reasons. See Item 10.C. ‘‘Additional Information — Material Contracts — Servicing Agreements.’’ For example, GECAS may decline to service an aircraft if a bank lender that finances such aircraft imposes conditions on the servicing of such aircraft to which GECAS does not agree. If GECAS declines to service any aircraft we acquire in the future, we will need to find a replacement servicer for such aircraft. The quality of any replacement services may not be as high or provided on terms as favorable as the terms currently offered by GECAS. In addition, if any of the servicing agreements were to be terminated, or if their terms were to be altered, we will not be entitled to benefit from certain terms of the leases, such as cross-defaults and various insurance terms, that apply only if GECAS is the servicer, and we may not be able to replace these services promptly. If we are unable to maintain a strong, positive relationship with GECAS, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. GECAS’s obligation to provide us with opportunities to purchase additional aircraft or other aviation assets under our business opportunities agreement is limited, and GECAS may compete with us for such acquisitions. We have entered into a business opportunities agreement with GECAS which is designed to lead to additional opportunities to purchase aircraft from third-party sources that GECAS encounters in its global operations, as well as certain aircraft offered to us directly by GECAS. However, GECAS generally is free to decide whether to make offers to sell aircraft to the aircraft finance industry generally, whether to sell us any aircraft that we offer to purchase and whether to provide us with access to any opportunities to purchase aircraft from other sources. Although we intend to source 12 Table of Contents aircraft purchases on our own, our resources are significantly less than those of GECAS. Competition from GECAS or the ability of other parties to negotiate more favorable terms with GECAS or other sources of opportunities presented to us may adversely affect our business and growth prospects. GECAS and its affiliates may have conflicts of interest with us, and their limited contractual or other duties may not restrict them from favoring their own business interests to our detriment. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and GECAS, as the servicer for our aircraft, with respect to our operations and business opportunities. These conflicts may arise because GECAS manages and remarkets for lease or sale aircraft for us, itself, its affiliates and for many other entities. GECAS also has extensive information about our business and operations as a result of the continued servicing of our aircraft, including access to sensitive competitive information such as lease and aircraft pricing, whereas we do not have access to similar information with respect to GECAS. If a conflict of interest arises as to one of our aircraft and other aircraft managed by GECAS, the servicing agreements provide that GECAS must perform the services in good faith, and, to the extent that either two or more of our particular aircraft or one of our aircraft and other aircraft managed by GECAS have substantially similar objectively identifiable characteristics that are relevant for purposes of the particular services to be performed, GECAS has agreed not to discriminate among our aircraft or between any of our aircraft and any other managed aircraft on an unreasonable basis. Nevertheless, despite these contractual undertakings, GECAS may favor its own interests and the interests of other managed entities over our interests. Conflicts may arise, for example, when our aircraft are leased to entities that also lease other aircraft owned or managed by GECAS and decisions affecting some aircraft may have an adverse impact on others. For example, when a lessee in financial distress seeks to return some of its aircraft, GECAS will be required to decide which aircraft to accept for return and may favor its or another managed entity’s interest over ours. Conflicts also may arise when our aircraft are being marketed for re-lease or sale at a time when other aircraft owned or managed by GECAS are being similarly marketed. These conflicts may be especially pronounced when an affiliate of GECAS is providing financing for a lessee or for the marketed aircraft or where GECAS’s contractual arrangements with a third party have the effect of requiring preferential treatment for other aircraft. Under the terms of our servicing agreements with GECAS, we are not entitled to be informed of all conflicts of interest involving GECAS and are limited in our right to replace GECAS because of conflicts of interest. Any replacement servicer may not provide the same quality of service or may not afford us terms as favorable as the terms currently offered by GECAS. Moreover, in certain situations we may incur duplicative servicing fees for services we obtain when there is a conflict of interest. If GECAS, as the servicer, makes a decision that is adverse to our interests, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could suffer. See ‘‘— Even if we are dissatisfied with GECAS, there are only limited circumstances under which we will be able to terminate the servicing agreements and we may not terminate the servicing agreement for our initial portfolio without the prior written consent of the policy provider.’&rsqu o; Conflicts may also arise when GECAS decides to whom it will offer the opportunity to acquire an aircraft. Although GECAS has agreed under the business opportunities agreement to notify us of any offers that it makes to sell commercial jet aircraft to the aircraft finance industry generally, GECAS is not required to sell us any aircraft that we offer to purchase or to provide us with opportunities that become available to GECAS from other sources. Accordingly, GECAS may decide to purchase aircraft for itself or favor other managed entities that are interested in purchasing aircraft that become available from other sources. See ‘‘— GECAS’s obligation to provide us with opportunities to purchase additional aircraft or other aviation assets under our business opportunities agreement is limited, and GECAS is not prevented from competing with us for such acquisitions.’’ We may compete with GECAS for acquisitions and dispositions of aircraft as well as the re-leasing of our aircraft that are not serviced by GECAS. We may compete with GECAS in the market for aircraft acquisitions and dispositions and in re-leasing any of our aircraft that GECAS does not service. Currently, GECAS manages a fleet of 13 Table of Contents approximately 1,450 aircraft owned by its affiliates and nearly 300 aircraft owned by other entities and thus has considerably greater scale than we have. GECAS also has extensive information about our business and operations as a result of the continued servicing of our aircraft, including access to sensitive competitive information such as lease and aircraft pricing, whereas we do not have access to similar information with respect to GECAS. In addition, GECAS has significantly greater financial resources than we have. As a result, we are likely to be at a competitive disadvantage to GECAS as we seek to acquire or dispose of aircraft or to re-lease any of our aircraft that GECAS does not service. Our servicing agreements limit our remedies against GECAS for unsatisfactory performance and provide certain termination rights to the policy provider. Under our servicing agreements with GECAS, in many cases we may not have the right to recover damages from GECAS for unsatisfactory performance. In addition, although GECAS is subject to standards of care and conflicts as provided in the servicing agreements, GECAS is not contractually responsible for: • the transfer of aircraft, leases or other assets to our company; • determining the adequacy of the terms of any aircraft lease, including rent payments or security deposits; • determining the reliability or creditworthiness of any lessee; or • our compliance with the terms of our agreements with other parties, including the indenture for the securitization and our credit facility. We have agreed to indemnify GECAS and its affiliates for broad categories of losses arising out of the performance of services for our aircraft and leases, unless they are finally adjudicated to have been caused directly by GECAS’s gross negligence or willful misconduct (including willful misconduct that constitutes fraud) in respect of GECAS’s obligation to apply its standard of care or conflicts standard in the performance of its services. We have also agreed to indemnify GECAS and its affiliates for losses arising out of the disclosures in this Annual Report (except certain disclosures provided to us by GECAS and losses arising out of our compliance with our obligations to any holders of any securities issued by us or any of our subsidiaries or any governmental authorities). Under certain circumstances the provider of the financial guarantee insurance policy with respect to the securitization notes has the right to terminate GECAS as the servicer for our initial portfolio without our consent and may terminate GECAS at a time which may be disadvantageous to us. Even if we are dissatisfied with GECAS’s performance, there are only limited circumstances under which we will be able to terminate the servicing agreements and we may not terminate the servicing agreement for our initial portfolio without the prior written consent of the policy provider. We have the right to terminate any servicing agreement with GECAS (except in the case of the servicing agreement for our initial portfolio, which also requires the prior written consent of the policy provider) if, among other things, • GECAS ceases to be at least majority-owned directly or indirectly by General Electric Capital Corporation, or GE Capital, or its ultimate parent, GE; • GECAS fails in any material respect to perform any material services under the servicing agreements which results in liability of GECAS due to its gross negligence or willful misconduct (including willful misconduct constituting fraud) in respect of its obligation to apply the standard of care or conflicts standard in respect of performance of the services in a manner that is materially adverse to us and our applicable subsidiaries taken as a whole; • GECAS fails in any material respect to perform any material services under the servicing agreements in accordance with the standard of care or the conflicts standard in a manner that is materially adverse to us and our applicable subsidiaries taken as a whole; • GECAS, GE Capital or GE becomes subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings; 14 Table of Contents • with respect to the master servicing agreement, we have insufficient funds for the payment of certain dividends while a significant portion of our available aircraft remain off-lease for a specified period; • with respect to the servicing agreement for our initial portfolio, we have insufficient funds for the payment of interest on the notes for a period of at least 60 days; • with respect to the servicing agreement for our initial portfolio, at least 15% of the number of aircraft assets remain off-lease but available for re-lease for a period of at least three months following specified events set forth in the trust indenture; or • with respect to the servicing agreement for our initial portfolio, without limiting GECAS’s rights under the security trust agreement, GECAS takes any steps for the purpose of processing the appointment of an administrative receiver or the making of any administrative order or for instituting a bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, winding up, liquidation, composition or any similar proceeding under the laws of any jurisdiction with respect to any person in the Genesis Funding, and any of its subsidiaries, or any of the aircraft assets. In addition, in the case of the servicing agreement for our initial portfolio, the policy provider also has the right to terminate such servicing agreement under the circumstances described above. In the absence of any of these events, neither we nor the policy provider has a right to terminate any servicing agreement, even if we are or it is dissatisfied with GECAS’s performance. In addition, because of our substantial dependence on GECAS, our board of directors may be reluctant to initiate litigation against GECAS to enforce contractual rights under any servicing agreement. GECAS may resign under any servicing agreement with respect to all aircraft serviced thereunder or any affected aircraft, as the case may be, if it reasonably determines that directions given, or services required, would, if carried out, be unlawful under applicable law, be in violation of any GE corporate policy regarding business practices or legal, ethical or social matters, be likely to lead to an investigation by any governmental authority of GECAS or its affiliates, expose GECAS to liabilities for which, in GECAS’s good faith opinion, adequate bond or indemnity has not been provided or place GECAS in a conflict of interest with respect to which, in GECAS’s good faith opinion, GECAS could not continue to perform its obligations under the servicing agreements with respect to all serviced aircraft or any affected aircraft, as the case may be (but with respect to the foregoing circumstances, GECAS may resign only with respect to the affected aircra ft). Whether or not it resigns, GECAS is not required to take any action of the foregoing kind. GECAS may also resign if it becomes subject to taxes for which we do not indemnify GECAS. GECAS’s decision to resign under any servicing agreement would significantly impair our ability to re-lease or sell our aircraft and service our leases. We rely extensively on third-party service providers for certain administrative, accounting and other services. We outsource significant administrative, accounting and other tasks to third-party service providers. These tasks include: • assisting with the management of our subsidiaries • the administration of the securitization; • providing financial information in connection with the maintenance of our accounting ledgers; • assisting in the preparation of quarterly and annual financial statements; • coordinating cash management and certain other treasury functions; • assisting in the preparation of reports to investors and to the SEC; • arranging for the preparation of and filing of all required tax returns; • administering payrolls; and • assisting with investor relations. 15 Table of Contents We may outsource other services that we may identify in the future. We also rely extensively on GECAS to service our aircraft. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depend significantly upon the satisfactory performance of these services. Any service provider’s failure to perform its obligations would harm our ability to perform the functions listed above. The terms of certain agreements with GECAS and other affiliates of GE were negotiated without independent assessment on our behalf, and these terms may be less advantageous to us than if they had been the subject of arm’s-length negotiations. In connection with our IPO, we entered into various agreements with GECAS and other affiliates of GE that effected the transactions relating to our formation, the securitization, the acquisition of our initial portfolio and our ongoing operations and business. Although the pricing and other terms of these agreements were reviewed by our management and our board of directors, they were determined by GE-affiliated entities in the overall context of our IPO and the related transactions. As a result, provisions of these agreements may be less favorable to us than they might have been had they been the result of arm’s-length transactions among unaffiliated third parties. Risks Relating to Our Aircraft Portfolio The variability of supply and demand for aircraft and other aviation assets could depress lease rates and the value of our leased assets, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects and on our ability to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends. The aviation leasing and sales industry has experienced periods of aircraft oversupply and undersupply. The oversupply of a specific type of aircraft or other aviation asset in the market is likely to depress lease rates for, and the value of, that type of asset. The supply and demand for aircraft is affected by various cyclical and non-cyclical factors that are not under our control, including: • passenger air travel and air cargo demand; • geopolitical and other events, including war, acts of terrorism, outbreaks of epidemic diseases and natural disasters; • operating costs, availability of jet fuel and general economic conditions affecting our lessees’ operations; • governmental regulation, including new airworthiness directives and environmental regulations; • interest rates; • airline restructurings and bankruptcies; • cancellations of orders for aircraft; • delays in delivery by manufacturers: • availability of credit; • manufacturer production levels and technological innovation; • retirement and obsolescence of aircraft models; • manufacturers merging or exiting the industry or ceasing to produce aircraft or engine types; • accuracy of estimates relating to future supply and demand made by manufacturers and lessees; • reintroduction into service of aircraft or engines previously in storage; and • airport and air traffic control infrastructure constraints. These factors may produce sharp decreases in asset values and achievable lease rates, which would have an impact on our cost of acquiring aircraft or other aviation assets, may result in lease 16 Table of Contents defaults and could delay or prevent the aircraft or other aviation assets from being re-leased or re-leased on favorable terms, or, if desired, sold on favorable terms. Factors that increase the risk of decline in aircraft value and achievable lease rates could have an adverse affect on our financial results and growth prospects and on our ability to meet our debt obligations and to pay dividends. In addition to factors linked to the aviation industry generally, other factors that may affect the value and achievable lease rates of our aircraft and other aviation assets include: • the particular maintenance and operating history of the airframes and engines; • the number of operators using that type of aircraft or engine; • whether an aircraft or other aviation asset is subject to a lease and, if so, whether the lease terms are favorable to the lessor; • the age of our aircraft and other aviation assets; • airworthiness directives and service bulletins; • aircraft noise and emission standards; • any tax, customs, regulatory and other legal requirements that must be satisfied when an aircraft is purchased, sold or re-leased; • compatibility of our aircraft configurations or specifications with other aircraft owned by operators of that type; and • decreases in the creditworthiness of our lessees. Any decrease in the values of and achievable lease rates for commercial aircraft or other aviation assets that may result from the above factors or other unanticipated factors may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects and our ability to meet our debt obligations and to pay dividends. Some of the aircraft in our portfolio have been damaged and subsequently repaired. Some of the aircraft in our portfolio have been damaged. Even though these aircraft have been repaired, we may not be able to resell or re-lease such aircraft on terms as favorable as those for an aircraft that has not been damaged. The advent of superior aircraft technology could cause our existing aircraft portfolio to become outdated and therefore less desirable, which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects and our ability to compete in the marketplace. As manufacturers introduce technological innovations and new types of aircraft, including the Boeing 787 Dreamliner and the Airbus A350 XWB (currently scheduled to enter service in 2009 and 2013, respectively) and potential replacement types for the Boeing 737 and Airbus A320 families of aircraft, certain aircraft in our existing aircraft portfolio may become less desirable to potential lessees. In addition, although all of the aircraft in our portfolio are Stage 3 noise-compliant, the imposition of more stringent noise or emissions regulations may make certain of our aircraft less desirable in the marketplace. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to lease or sell our aircraft on favorable terms or at all or our ability to charge rental amounts that we would otherwise seek to charge. Our operational costs will increase as our aircraft age, which will adversely affect the amounts available to pay dividends. As of December 31, 2007, the weighted average age of the 53 aircraft in our portfolio was 6.0 years. In general, the cost of redelivering an aircraft under a lease, including maintenance and modification expenditures, increases with the age of the aircraft. The costs of converting an aging passenger aircraft to a cargo aircraft are also substantial. The incurrence of these greater expenses as our fleet ages could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. 17 Table of Contents The concentration of aircraft types in our portfolio could harm our business and financial results should any difficulties specific to these particular types of aircraft occur. Of the aircraft in our portfolio, approximately 36% are Airbus A320-200 aircraft, approximately 33% are Boeing 737-800 aircraft and approximately 31% are various other aircraft. If any of these aircraft types (or other types that we acquire in the future) should encounter technical or other difficulties, such affected aircraft types may be subject to grounding or diminution in value and we may be unable to lease such affected aircraft types on favorable terms or at all. The inability to lease the affected aircraft types may reduce our revenues and net income to the extent the affected aircraft types comprise a significant percentage of our aircraft portfolio. In addition, the abandonment or rejection of the lease of any of the types of aircraft listed above by one or more carriers in reorganization proceedings under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or comparable statutes in non-U.S. jurisdictions may diminish the value of such aircraft and will s ubject us to re-leasing risks. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities in aircraft and other aviation assets. The leasing and remarketing of commercial jet aircraft is highly competitive. As the exclusive servicer of our aircraft, GECAS competes in leasing, re-leasing and selling our aircraft with other aircraft leasing companies, including International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC), AerCap, Aircastle, Aviation Capital Group, AWAS, Babcock & Brown Aircraft Management, Babcock & Brown Air Limited, Boeing Capital, CIT Aerospace, Macquarie Aircraft Leasing, RBS Aviation Capital and BOC Aviation (formerly Singapore Aircraft Leasing Enterprise), among others. We also may encounter competition from other entities that selectively compete with us, including: • airlines; • aircraft manufacturers; • financial institutions (including those seeking to dispose of repossessed aircraft at distressed prices); • aircraft brokers; • special purpose vehicles formed for the purpose of acquiring, leasing and selling aircraft; and • public and private partnerships, investors and funds, including private equity and hedge funds. Competition for a leasing transaction is based principally upon lease rates, delivery dates, lease terms, reputation, management expertise, aircraft condition, specifications and configuration and the availability of the types of aircraft necessary to meet the needs of the customer. Some of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we have. In addition, some competing aircraft lessors have a lower overall cost of capital and may provide financial services, maintenance services or other inducements to potential lessees that we cannot provide. Given the financial condition of the airline industry, many airlines have reduced their capacity by eliminating select types of aircraft from their fleets. This has resulted in an increase in available aircraft of these types, a decrease in rental rates for these aircraft and a decrease in market values of these aircraft. Competition in the purchase and sale of used aircraft is based principally on the availability of used aircraft, price, the terms of the lease to which an aircraft is subject and the creditworthiness of the lessee. When we decide to dispose of an aircraft, GECAS, as our servicer, will arrange the disposition pursuant to the terms of the servicing agreements for that used aircraft. In doing so, GECAS will compete with the aircraft leasing companies listed above, as well as with the other types of entities described above and other investors. GECAS is not required to assist us in the purchase of used aircraft, and therefore we also will compete with GECAS when seeking to acquire used aircraft. Some of our competitors, such as Aercap, Aircastle, and Babcock & Brown Air Limited are newly public companies with acquisitive growth strategies similar to ours, and their entrance into the market for leasing and marketing of commercial jet aircraft may further intensify competition for acquisitions. 18 Table of Contents If demand for leased aircraft does not increase, we may not be able to expand our business. Over the past 20 years, the world’s airlines have leased a growing proportion of their aircraft. According to market data, the proportion of the global fleet under operating lease has increased from 17% in 1990 to more than 30% in recent years. Our growth strategy contemplates future acquisitions and leasing of additional commercial aircraft and other aviation assets. If, however, the aggregate demand for leased aircraft does not expand, then we may be unable to implement our growth strategy through aircraft acquisitions. Failure to expand our aircraft portfolio would impair our ability to sustain our revenues or support our expected dividend payments. Depreciation expenses and impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our aircraft have finite economic lives, their values depreciate in the ordinary course over time and their ability to generate earnings and cash flow for our business declines over time. If depreciated aircraft are not replaced with newer aircraft, our ability to generate earnings and cash to pay dividends will be reduced. In addition, we depreciate our aircraft for accounting purposes on a straight-line basis to the aircraft’s estimated residual value over its estimated useful life. If we dispose of an aircraft for a price that is less than its depreciated value, then we would be required to recognize a loss that would reduce our net income during the period of the disposition and reduce our total assets. In addition, aircraft in our portfolio and any other aircraft and other aviation assets that we acquire in the future are expected to be under operating leases that are subject to periodic review for impairment for accounting purposes. We believe the carrying value of the aircraft in our portfolio is currently recoverable through the cash flows expected to result from their use and eventual disposition. However, if these expected cash flows are adversely affected by factors including credit deterioration of a lessee, declines in rental rates, other market conditions and residual values, then we may be required to recognize material impairment charges that would reduce our net earnings or increase our net losses. Under U.S. GAAP, once an impairment results in a reduction to the carrying value of an asset, the carrying value of such asset cannot thereafter be increased. Aircraft liens could impair our ability to repossess, re-lease or resell the aircraft. In the normal course of business, liens that secure the payment of airport fees and taxes, custom duties, air navigation charges, landing charges, crew wages, repairers’ charges, salvage or other obligations are likely, depending on the laws of the jurisdictions where aircraft operate, to attach to the aircraft (or, if applicable, to the engines separately). The liens may secure substantial sums that may, in certain jurisdictions or for limited types of liens (particularly fleet liens), exceed the value of any particular aircraft to which the liens have attached. Until they are discharged, the liens described above could impair our ability to repossess, re-lease or resell our aircraft. Although financial obligations are the responsibilities of the lessees, if they fail to fulfill their obligations, liens may attach. In some jurisdictions, aircraft liens or separate engine liens may give the holder thereof the right to detain or, in limited cases, sell or cause the forfeiture of the aircraft (or, if applicable, the engines separately). We cannot assure you that the lessees will comply with their obligations under the leases to discharge liens arising during the terms of the leases. We may, in some cases, find it necessary to pay the claims secured by such liens in order to repossess the aircraft or obtain the aircraft or engines from a creditor thereof. These payments would be a required expense for us and would reduce our net income and our cash flows. We cannot assure you that all lessees will comply with the registration requirements in the jurisdictions where they operate. All of our aircraft are required to be registered at all times with appropriate governmental authorities. Generally, in jurisdictions outside the United States, failure by a lessee to maintain the registration of a leased aircraft would be a default under the applicable lease, entitling us to exercise 19 Table of Contents our rights and remedies thereunder. If an aircraft were to be operated without a valid registration, the lessee operator or, in some cases, the owner or lessor might be subject to penalties, which could constitute or result in a lien being placed on such aircraft. Failure to comply with registration requirements also could have other adverse effects, including inability to operate the aircraft and loss of insurance. We cannot assure you that all lessees will comply with these requirements. Government regulations could require substantial expenditures, reduce our profitability and limit our growth. Certain aspects of our business are subject to regulation and require the oversight and regulation by state, federal and foreign governmental authorities. Aircraft are subject to regulations imposed by aviation authorities regarding aircraft maintenance and airworthiness. Laws affecting the airworthiness of aircraft generally are designed to ensure that all aircraft and related equipment are continuously maintained in proper condition to enable safe operation of the aircraft. Aircraft manufacturers may also issue their own recommendations. Airworthiness directives and similar requirements typically set forth particular special maintenance actions or modifications to certain aircraft types or models that the owners or operators of aircraft must implement. Each lessee generally is responsible for complying with airworthiness directives with respect to its aircraft and is required to maintain the aircraft’s airworthiness. To the extent that a lessee fails to comply with airworthiness directives required to maintain its certificate of airworthiness or other manufacturer requirements in respect of an aircraft or if the aircraft is not currently subject to a lease, we may have to bear the cost of such compliance. Under many leases, we have agreed to share with our lessees the cost of obligations under airworthiness directives (or similar requirements). In addition, if the aircraft is not subject to a lease, we may be forced to bear (or, to induce a prospective lessee to take the aircraft on lease, have to agree to pay) the cost of compliance with airworthiness directives. These expenditures can be substantial, and, to the extent we are required to pay them, our cash flow and ability to pay dividends could be sub stantially adversely affected. In addition to these expenditures, which may be substantial, significant new requirements with respect to noise standards, emission standards and other aspects of our aircraft or their operation could cause our costs to increase and could cause the value of our aircraft portfolio to decrease. Other governmental regulations relating to noise and emissions levels may be imposed not only by the jurisdictions in which the aircraft are registered, possibly as part of the airworthiness requirements, but also by other jurisdictions where the aircraft operate. In addition, most countries’ aviation laws require aircraft to be maintained under an approved maintenance program having defined procedures and intervals for inspection, maintenance and repair. To the extent that our aircraft are off lease or a lessee defaults in effecting such compliance, we are required to comply with such requirements at our expense. It may be difficult or impossible to obtain title to one of the aircraft in our portfolio upon a bankruptcy or default by its owner and manager. One of the aircraft in our portfolio (with a net book value of $35.7 million as of December 31, 2007) is on lease to a lessee based in Japan. Under Japanese law, legal title to each aircraft registered in Japan must be held by a Japanese entity. In order to permit the registration of this aircraft in Japan, legal title to the aircraft is held by a third-party Japanese corporation owned and managed by one of the major trading companies in Japan. However, beneficial ownership of the aircraft is effectively held by an entity in which the beneficial interest is held by us. Title to this aircraft will be transferred under the terms of a conditional sales agreement to such entity upon payment by such entity to the third-party Japanese owner of remaining installment in the amount of one U.S. dollar on the date the lease of the aircraft expires or any earlier date elected by such entity provided that (1) there is no continuing default by such entity and c ertain representations and warranties of such entity remain true and accurate and (2) the third-party Japanese owner is indemnified by the lessee for costs and taxes that arise as a result of the title transfer. Because Genesis Funding has not relinquished control over the aircraft upon transfer of the aircraft’s title to the Japanese entity, as 20 Table of Contents evidenced by the one dollar purchase option in the conditional sale agreement which is exercisable at any time, and has retained all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the aircraft, Genesis Funding has not recognized this transaction as a sale for accounting purposes and continues to recognize the aircraft as ‘‘Flight equipment under operating lease’’ in the financial statements. While these liabilities are the responsibility of the lessee, if they are not paid, the entity holding the beneficial interest may effectively have to pay such amounts in order for title to be transferred. Under the conditional sale agreement, Genesis Funding effectively holds the beneficial ownership interest of the aircraft, including all of the risks and rewards of ownership and has full control over the leasing of the aircraft to the lessee, but full liability to the Japanese title owner with respect to the aircraft if the lessee does not perform its indemnity or other obligations. The obligation of the third-party Japanese owner to transfer title to such entity is secured by a mortgage over the leased aircraft and a share pledge over the entire share capital of the third-party Japanese owner, each in favor of such entity. Although the conditional sale agreement provides for title to transfer automatically, a bill of sale may be required to legally effect su ch transfer of title. There may be tax related considerations or issues relating to the validity of the method of title transfer depending on the location of the aircraft (and the related engines) at the time of transfer that may need to be considered at the time of transfer and which may affect the decision as to when to transfer title. It is also possible that the Japanese title owner or its manager parent company could breach its obligation to provide a bill of sale to document properly the title transfer to Genesis Funding, which could also result in possible impairment of our ability to obtain such evidence of title to the aircraft in a timely fashion or at all. In the event of a bankruptcy proceeding involving the Japanese manager of this aircraft, the separateness of the corporate existence of the Japanese owner of the aircraft and the Japanese manager may be disregarded and this aircraft, if the third-party Japanese owner still holds legal title to it, may be consolidated with the assets of the Japanese manager and may become part of the bankruptcy estate, resulting in the possible impairment of our ability to obtain title to the aircraft in a timely fashion or at all. Risks Relating to Our Leases We will need to re-lease or sell aircraft as leases expire to continue to generate sufficient funds to meet our debt obligations, finance our growth and operations and pay dividends. We may not be able to re-lease or sell aircraft on favorable terms, or at all. Our business strategy entails the need to re-lease aircraft as our current leases expire to generate sufficient revenues to meet our debt obligations, finance our growth and operations and pay dividends to our shareholders. The ability to re-lease aircraft depends on general market and competitive conditions. Some of our competitors may have greater access to financial resources and, as a result of restrictions on us contained in the terms of our indebtedness, may have greater operational flexibility. If we are not able to re-lease an aircraft or to do so on favorable terms, we may be required to attempt to sell the aircraft to provide funds for debt service or operating expenses. Our ability to re-lease or sell aircraft on favorable terms or without significant off-lease time could be adversely affected by depressed conditions in the airline and aircraft industries, airline bankruptcies, the effects of terrorism and war, the sale of other aircraft by financial institutions or other factors. We rely on our lessees’ continuing performance of their lease obligations. We operate as a supplier to airlines and are indirectly impacted by the risks facing airlines today. Our success depends upon the financial strength of our lessees, our ability to assess the credit risk of our lessees and the ability of lessees to perform their contractual obligations to us. The ability of each lessee to perform its obligations under its lease will depend primarily on the lessee’s financial condition and cash flow, which may be affected by factors beyond our control, including: • competition; • fare levels; 21 Table of Contents • air cargo rates; • passenger air travel and air cargo demand; • geopolitical and other events, including war, acts of terrorism, outbreaks of epidemic diseases and natural disasters; • operating costs, availability and cost of jet fuel and general economic conditions affecting our lessees’ operations; • labor difficulties; • economic conditions and currency fluctuations in the countries and regions in which the lessee operates; and • governmental regulation of, or affecting, the air transportation business. Some of our lessees may experience payment difficulties. A delayed, missed or reduced rental payment from a lessee decreases our revenues and cash flow and may adversely affect our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and pay dividends to shareholders. We may experience delinquencies, particularly if economic conditions deteriorate. In addition, the demand for aircraft generally diminishes as they age, and the creditworthiness of the lessees of older aircraft is generally lower than the creditworthiness of the lessees of newer aircraft. We are typically not in possession of any aircraft while the aircraft are on lease to the lessees. Consequently, our ability to determine the condition of the aircraft or whether the lessees are properly maintaining the aircraft is be limited to periodic inspections that we perform or that are performed on our behalf by third-party service providers or aircraft inspectors. A lessee’s failure to meet its maintenance obligations under a lease could: • result in a grounding of the aircraft; • cause us to incur costs in restoring the aircraft to an acceptable maintenance condition to re-lease the aircraft; • adversely affect lease terms in the re-lease of the aircraft; and • adversely affect the value of the aircraft. We cannot assure you that, in the event that a lessee defaults under a lease, any security deposit paid or letter of credit provided by the lessee will be sufficient to cover the lessee’s outstanding or unpaid lease obligations and required maintenance expenses, or be sufficient to discharge liens that may have attached to our aircraft. Because some airlines are in a weak financial condition and suffer liquidity problems, we may have trouble collecting lease payments on a timely basis or at all, which would adversely affect our revenues and cash flows and may adversely affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends. Some airlines are in a weak financial condition and suffer liquidity problems, and this is likely to be the case in the future with other airlines. In addition, many airlines are exposed to currency risk due to the fact that they earn revenues in their local currencies and certain of their liabilities and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars, including lease payments to us. Given the size of our aircraft portfolio, we expect that some lessees from time to time, and possibly in the near future, will be slow in making or will fail to make their payments in full under the leases. Some lessees encountering financial difficulties may seek a reduction in their lease rates or other concessions such as a decrease in their contribution toward maintenance obligations. A delayed, missed or reduced rental payment from a lessee would reduce our revenues and may adversely affect our ability to make payments on the notes issued in the securitization and pay dividends on ou r shares. While we may experience some level of delinquency under our leases, default levels may increase over time, particularly as our aircraft portfolio ages and if economic conditions deteriorate. 22 Table of Contents If our lessees encounter financial difficulties and we decide to restructure our leases with those lessees, this could result in less favorable leases, significant reductions in our cash flows and adversely affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends on our shares. We may be required to restructure a lease when a lessee is late in making payments, fails to make required payments or has otherwise advised us that it expects to default in making required payments. Restructuring may involve anything from a simple rescheduling of payments to the termination of a lease without receiving all or any of the past-due amounts. The terms and conditions of possible lease restructurings could result in significant reductions of rental payments, which would have an adverse impact on our cash flow available for distribution and reduced dividends to shareholders. Because many of our lessees operate in emerging markets, we are indirectly subject to many of the economic and political risks associated with competing in such markets. Emerging markets are countries which have developing economies that are vulnerable to business and political disturbances, such as significant economic instability, interest and exchange rate fluctuations, civil unrest, government instability and the nationalization or expropriation of private assets. The occurrence of any of these events in markets served by our lessees domiciled in emerging markets and the resulting instability may adversely affect our ownership interest in aircraft or the ability of lessees which operate in these markets to meet their lease obligations and these lessees may be more likely to default than lessees that operate in developed economies. We may be required to purchase repossession insurance if GECAS re-leases any of our aircraft to lessees located in certain jurisdictions. Under the servicing agreements, GECAS has broad discretion to re-lease aircraft to lessees around the world, subject to the concentration limits and other restrictions in the indenture. Under the indenture for the notes issued in the securitization, if an aircraft is leased to a lessee in certain specified jurisdictions (including, among others, Belarus, Bhutan, Kazakhstan and Mongolia) we may be required to purchase insurance to ensure our ability to repossess the aircraft. If GECAS re-leases any of our aircraft to lessees in these jurisdictions, our expenses may increase due to the need to purchase repossession insurance. Lease defaults could result in significant expenses and loss of revenues. If we are unable to agree upon acceptable terms for a lease restructuring, then we have the right to repossess aircraft and to exercise other remedies upon a lessee default. However, repossession, re-registration and flight and export permissions after a lessee default typically result in greater costs than those incurred when an aircraft is returned at the end of a lease. These costs include legal expenses that could be significant, particularly if the lessee is contesting the proceedings or is in bankruptcy. Delays resulting from repossession proceedings also would increase the period of time during which an aircraft or other aviation asset does not generate rental revenue. In addition, we may incur substantial maintenance, refurbishment or repair costs that a defaulting lessee has failed to pay and that are necessary to put the aircraft in a condition suitable for re-lease or sale, and we may need to pay off liens, taxes and governmental charges on the aircra ft or other aviation asset to obtain clear possession and to remarket the asset effectively. If we repossess an aircraft or other aviation asset, we will not necessarily be able to export or deregister and profitably redeploy the asset. For instance, where a lessee or other operator flies only domestic routes in the jurisdiction in which an aircraft is registered, repossession may be more difficult, especially if the jurisdiction permits the lessee or the other operator to resist deregistration. Significant costs may also be incurred in retrieving or recreating aircraft records required for registration of the aircraft and obtaining a certificate of airworthiness for the aircraft or engine. Our lessees’ failure to fund their maintenance requirements on our aircraft could significantly harm our revenues, cash flows and ability to pay dividends. The standards of maintenance observed by our lessees and the condition of aircraft at the time of sale or lease may affect the values and rental rates of our aircraft. Under each of our leases, the lessee 23 Table of Contents is primarily responsible for maintaining the aircraft and complying with all governmental requirements applicable to the lessee and to the aircraft, including operational, maintenance and registration requirements and airworthiness directives. A lessee’s failure to perform required maintenance during the term of a lease could result in a diminution in the value of an aircraft, an inability to lease the aircraft at favorable rates or at all, or a potential grounding of the aircraft, and would likely require us to incur maintenance and modification costs upon the expiration or earlier termination of the lease to restore the aircraft to an acceptable condition prior to sale or re-leasing. Failure to pay certain potential additional operating costs could result in the grounding of our aircraft and prevent the re-lease, sale or other use of our aircraft, which would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As in the case of maintenance costs, we may incur other operational costs upon a lessee default or where the terms of the lease require us to pay a portion of those costs. Such costs, which can be substantial, include: • the costs of casualty, liability, war and political risk insurance and the liability costs or losses when insurance coverage has not been or cannot be obtained as required or is insufficient in amount or scope; • the costs of licensing, exporting or importing an aircraft, costs of storing and operating an aircraft, airport taxes, customs duties, air navigation charges, landing fees and similar governmental or quasi-governmental impositions; and • penalties and costs associated with the failure of lessees to keep the aircraft registered under all appropriate local requirements or obtain required governmental licenses, consents and approvals. The failure to pay some of these costs can result in liens on the aircraft or a loss of insurance. Any of these events could result in the grounding of the aircraft and prevent the re-lease, sale or other use of the aircraft until the problem is cured. Our lessees may have inadequate insurance coverage or fail to fulfill their respective indemnity obligations, which could result in us not being covered for claims asserted against us and may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we do not expect to control the operation of our leased aircraft, our ownership of the aircraft could give rise, in some jurisdictions, to strict liability for losses resulting from their operation. Our lessees are required to indemnify us for, and insure against, liabilities arising out of the use and operation of the aircraft, including third-party claims for death or injury to persons and damage to property for which we may be deemed liable. Lessees are also required to maintain public liability, property damage and hull all risks and hull war risks insurance on the aircraft at agreed upon levels. However, they are not generally required to maintain political risk insurance. Following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to airlines for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events. At the same time, they significantly increased the premiums for such third-party war risk and terrorism liability insurance and coverage in general. As a result, the amount of such third-party war risk and terrorism liability insurance that is available at any time may be below the amount required under the initial leases and required by the market in general. We cannot assure you that the insurance maintained by our lessees will be sufficient to cover all types of claims that may be asserted against us. Any inadequate insurance coverage or default by lessees in fulfilling their indemnification or insurance obligations, as well as the lack of available insurance, could reduce the proceeds upon an event of loss and could subject us to uninsured liabilities, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Failure to obtain certain required licenses, consents and approvals could negatively affect our ability to re-lease or sell aircraft, which would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Aircraft leases often require specific licenses, consents or approvals. These include consents from governmental or regulatory authorities for certain payments under the leases and for the import, re-export or deregistration of the aircraft. Subsequent changes in applicable law or administrative practice may increase or otherwise modify these requirements. In addition, a governmental consent, once given, might be withdrawn. Furthermore, consents needed in connection with future re-leasing or sale of an aircraft may not be forthcoming. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to re-lease or sell aircraft, which would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our leases provide the lessees with early termination rights. Seventeen of the leases in our portfolio provide the lessees with early termination rights. We also could enter into leases in the future that provide lessees with early termination rights. If any lease is terminated early at a time when we could not re-lease the aircraft at rates at least as favorable to us as the terminated lease, our results of operations and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected. See Item 4.D. ‘‘Property, Plants and Equipment — Our Leases — Early Termination Rights.’’ Risks associated with the concentration of our lessees in certain geographical regions could harm our business. Our business is exposed to local economic and political conditions that can influence the performance of lessees located in a particular region. The effect of these conditions on payments to us will be more or less pronounced, depending on the concentration of lessees in the region with adverse conditions. European concentration. Lease rental revenues from lessees based in Europe accounted for 33% of total rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. Commercial airlines in Europe face, and can be expected to continue to face, increased competitive pressures, in part as a result of the deregulation of the airline industry by the European Union and the development of low-cost carriers. European countries generally have relatively strict environmental regulations and traffic constraints that can restrict operational flexibility and decrease aircraft productivity, which could significantly increase aircraft operating costs. Asian concentration. Lease rental revenues from lessees based in Asia (including China and India) accounted for 37% of total rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. There are significant obstacles to the development of Chinese and Indian airline industries, including continuing government control and regulation over the industry. In addition, India faces poor aviation infrastructure and continuing losses from operations due to overcapacity. If these difficulties persist or expand, the Chinese and Indian airline industries likely would experience a significant decrease in growth or restrictions on future growth. North American concentration. Lease rental revenues from lessees based in North America accounted for 16% of total rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. During the past 15 years a number of North American passenger airlines filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings and several major U.S. airlines ceased operations altogether. High labor costs, high fuel costs, the strength of labor unions in collective bargaining negotiations, the war and prolonged conflict in Iraq and the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States have imposed additional financial burdens on most U.S. airlines. The geographic classifications and revenue information for the lessees discussed above are based on the financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007 which are included at Item 18 in this Annual Report. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Aviation Industry The passenger aviation industry is inherently cyclical and a significant downturn in the industry would adversely impact our lessees’ ability to make payments to us, which would adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. The passenger aviation industry is inherently cyclical. The years 2001 through 2004 were characterized by falling demand and rising costs. This industry downturn was exacerbated by the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, prolonged military action in Iraq and Afghanistan, rising fuel prices, SARS and avian influenza. As a result, the global airline industry experienced significant financial losses. Many airlines, including some of our lessees, announced or implemented reductions in capacity, service and workforce. Additionally, many airlines sought protection under bankruptcy laws. The airline bankruptcies and the reduction in demand led to the grounding of significant numbers of aircraft and engines and the negotiation of reductions in lease rental rates, which depressed aircraft and engine market values. While the down cycle has ended and many of the world’s airlines are experiencing improved financial performance, there are recent indications that there may be a recession developing in the United States economy which could trigger a slowdown or recession in other economies. Although the potential impact of these events on the aviation industry is unclear, an industry downturn is likely to occur again in the future, and the impact could be similar to the impact of downturns. Such a downturn would likely place already financially weakened lessees under further duress, once again exerting downward pressure on lease rates. As in the previous downturn, the grounding of undesirable older aircraft would also play a role in depressing aircraft and engine market values. A deterioration in the financial condition of the commercial airline industry would have an adverse impact on our ability to lease our aircraft, sustain our revenues and pay dividends. The financial condition of the commercial airline industry is of particular importance to us because we lease most of our aircraft to commercial airline customers. Our ability to achieve our primary business objectives of growing our lease portfolio and increasing distributable cash flow per share will depend on the financial condition and growth of the commercial airline industry. The risks affecting our airline customers are generally out of our control, but because they have a significant impact on our customers they affect us as well. The risk factors that follow describe risks that affect the commercial airline industry generally and therefore have an impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks are generally not within our control. Our ability to succeed depends on the financial strength of our customers and their ability to manage these risks. To the extent that our customers are adversely affected by these risk facto rs, we may experience: • downward pressure on demand for the aircraft in our fleet and reduced market lease rates and lease margins; • a higher incidence of lessee defaults, lease restructurings, repossessions and airline bankruptcies and restructurings, resulting in lower lease margins due to maintenance, legal and other costs associated with the repossession, as well as lost revenue for the time the aircraft are off lease and possibly lower lease rates from the new lessees; • an inability to lease aircraft on commercially acceptable terms, resulting in lower lease margins due to aircraft not earning revenue and resulting in storage, insurance and maintenance costs; and • a loss if our aircraft is damaged or destroyed by an event specifically excluded from an insurance policy, such as dirty bombs, bio-hazardous materials and electromagnetic pulsing. Airline reorganizations could impair our lessees’ ability to comply with their lease payment obligations to us. In recent years, several U.S. airlines have sought to reorganize under Chapter 11, and numerous other airlines filed for similar protection under their local laws. Historically, airlines involved in 26 Table of Contents reorganizations have undertaken substantial fare discounting to maintain cash flows and to encourage continued customer loyalty. This fare discounting has led to lower yields for all airlines, including certain of our lessees. Bankruptcies may lead to the grounding of significant numbers of aircraft, rejections of leases and negotiated reductions in aircraft lease rentals, with the effect of depressing aircraft market values. Additional reorganizations or liquidations by airlines under applicable bankruptcy or reorganization laws or rejection or abandonment of aircraft by airlines in bankruptcy proceedings may depress aircraft values and aircraft lease rates. Additional grounded aircraft and lower market values would adversely affect our ability to sell certain of our aircraft or re-lease other aircraft at favorable rates. As high fuel prices continue to affect the profitability of the airline industry, our lessees might not be able to meet their lease payment obligations to us. Fuel costs represent a major expense to companies operating within the airline industry, and fuel prices fluctuate widely depending primarily on international market conditions, geopolitical and environmental events and currency exchange rates. In addition, natural disasters can significantly affect fuel availability and prices. For example, in August and September 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita inflicted widespread damage along the Gulf Coast of the United States, causing significant disruptions to oil production, refinery operations and pipeline capacity in the region and to oil production in the Gulf of Mexico. These disruptions resulted in decreased fuel availability and higher fuel prices. Fuel prices have remained at historically high levels. The continuing high cost of fuel will likely have a material adverse impact on airline profitability. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, airlines may not be able to pass on increases in fuel prices to their customers by increasing fares. If they pass on the higher costs, it may adversely affect demand for air travel, which would reduce revenues to our customers. In addition, airlines may not be able to manage this risk by appropriately hedging their exposure to fuel price fluctuations. If fuel prices remain at historically high levels or increase further, they are likely to cause our lessees to incur higher costs or experience reduced revenues. Consequently, these conditions may: • affect our lessees’ ability to make rental and other lease payments; • result in lease restructurings and aircraft and engine repossessions; • increase our costs of servicing and marketing aircraft; • impair our ability to re-lease the aircraft and other aviation assets or re-lease or otherwise dispose of the assets on a timely basis at favorable rates; and • reduce the proceeds received for the aircraft or other aviation assets upon any disposition. The effects of various environmental regulations may negatively affect the airline industry. This may cause lessees to default on their lease payment obligations to us. Governmental regulations regarding aircraft and engine noise and emissions levels apply based on where the relevant aircraft is registered and operated. For example, jurisdictions throughout the world have adopted noise regulations which require all aircraft to comply with noise level standards. In addition to the current requirements, the United States and the International Civil Aviation Organization, or ICAO, have adopted a new, more stringent set of standards for noise levels which applies to engines manufactured or certified on or after January 1, 2006. Currently, U.S. regulations would not require any phase-out of aircraft that qualify with the older standards applicable to engines manufactured or certified prior to January 1, 2006, but the European Union has established a framework for the imposition of operating limitations on aircraft that do not comply with the new standards. These regulations could limit the economic life of the ai rcraft and engines, reduce their value, limit our ability to lease or sell the non-compliant aircraft and engines or, if engine modifications are permitted, require us to make significant additional investments in the aircraft and engines to make them compliant. 27 Table of Contents In addition to more stringent noise restrictions, the United States and other jurisdictions are beginning to impose more stringent limits on nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide emissions from engines, consistent with current ICAO standards. These limits generally apply only to engines manufactured after 1999. Many of the aircraft engines owned by us were manufactured after 1999. Because aircraft engines are replaced from time to time in the usual course, it is likely that the number of such engines may increase over time. Concerns over global warming could result in more stringent limitations on the operation of aircraft powered by older, non-compliant engines. European countries generally have relatively strict environmental regulations that can restrict operational flexibility and decrease aircraft productivity. The European Parliament has confirmed that aviation is to be included in the European Union’s Emissions Trading Scheme starting from 2012. This inclusion could possibly distort the European air transport market leading to higher ticket prices and ultimately a reduction in the number of airline passengers. As an answer to these concerns, European airlines have established the Committee for Environmentally Friendly Aviation to promote the positive environmental performance of airlines. The United Kingdom has doubled its air passenger duties, effective February 1, 2007, in recognition of the environmental costs of air travel. Similar measures may be implemented in other jurisdictions as a result of environmental concerns. Compliance with current or future regulations, taxes or duties imposed to deal with environmental concerns could cause the lessees to incur higher costs and to generate lower net revenues, resulting in an adverse impact on their financial conditions. Consequently, such compliance may affect the lessees’ ability to make rental and other lease payments and reduce the value received for the aircraft upon any disposition, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to pay the interest on and principal of the securitization notes in full or on a timely basis. The effects of terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions may negatively affect the airline industry. This may cause our lessees to default on their lease payment obligations to us. As a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States and subsequent terrorist attacks abroad, airports have increased security restrictions, airline costs for aircraft insurance and enhanced security measures have increased and airlines have faced increased difficulties in acquiring war risk and other insurance at reasonable costs. Terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions have harmed the airline industry, and concerns about geopolitical conditions and further terrorist attacks could harm airlines in the future as a result of various factors, including: • higher costs to airlines because of increased security measures; • the inconvenience of additional security measures; • the price and availability of jet fuel and the cost and practicability of obtaining fuel hedges under current market conditions; and • significantly higher costs of aircraft insurance coverage for claims caused by acts of war, terrorism, sabotage, hijacking and other similar perils, and the extent to which such insurance has been or will continue to be available. Future terrorist attacks, war or armed hostilities, or the fear of such events, may further increase airline costs, depress air travel demand, cause certain aviation insurance to become available only at significantly increased premiums or not be available at all and could have a further adverse impact on the airline industry and on the financial condition and liquidity of our lessees, aircraft values and rental rates, all of which could adversely affect our financial results, growth prospects and ability to pay dividends. The effects of war or armed hostilities may negatively affect the airline industry. This may cause lessees to default on their lease payment obligations to us. War or armed hostilities in the Middle East, North Korea, or elsewhere, or the fear of such events, could reasonably be expected to further exacerbate many of the problems experienced by the aviation industry as a result of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. The situation in Iraq 28 Table of Contents continues to be uncertain and tension over Iran’s nuclear program continues, and either or both may lead to further instability in the region. Potential problems include increased security restrictions on air travel in the United States and elsewhere, increased airline costs for, and restricted availability of, aircraft insurance and fuel, enhanced security measures, a decline in passenger demand for air travel, increased difficulties in acquiring war risk and other insurance at reasonable costs, and additional lessee restructurings. The effects of pandemic diseases may negatively affect the airline industry. This may cause our lessees to default on their lease payment obligations to us. The 2003 outbreak of SARS was linked to air travel early in its development and had a severe adverse impact on the aviation industry, which was evidenced by a sharp reduction in passenger bookings, cancellation of many flights and employee layoffs. In addition, since 2003, there have been several outbreaks of avian influenza, or the bird flu, beginning in Asia and, most recently, spreading to certain parts of Africa and Europe. Additional outbreaks of SARS or other pandemic diseases, or the fear of such events, could provoke responses, including government-imposed travel restrictions, which could negatively affect passenger demand for air travel and the financial condition of the aviation industry. We depend on aircraft and engine manufacturers’ success in remaining financially stable and producing aircraft. The supply of aircraft, which we purchase and lease, is dominated by two airframe manufacturers, Boeing and Airbus, and a limited number of engine manufacturers. We therefore depend on these manufacturers’ success in remaining financially stable and producing aircraft and related components which meet airlines’ demands and providing customer support. Further, competition between the manufacturers for market share is escalating and may cause instances of deep discounting for certain aircraft types and may have a negative impact on our competitive pricing when we sell or lease aircraft. Should the manufacturers fail to respond appropriately to changes in the market environment or fail to fulfill their contractual obligations, we may experience: • an inability to acquire aircraft and related components on terms that will allow us to lease those aircraft and related components to customers at our anticipated profit levels, resulting in lower growth rates or a contraction in our fleet; • poor customer support from the manufacturers of aircraft and components resulting in reduced demand for a particular manufacturer’s product, creating downward pressure on demand for those aircraft and components in our fleet and reduced market lease rates for those aircraft; and • reduction in our competitiveness due to deep discounting by the manufacturers, which may lead to reduced market lease rates and may adversely affect the value of our portfolio and our ability to remarket or sell some of the aircraft in our fleet. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Shares Market interest rates may have an effect on the trading value of our shares. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our shares is our dividend rate as a percentage of our share price relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may demand a higher dividend yield on our shares or seek alternative investments paying higher dividends or interest. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market value of our shares. For instance, if interest rates rise, it is likely that the market price of our shares will decrease as market rates on interest-bearing securities, such as bonds, increase. 29 Table of Contents We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These include: • provisions that permit us to require any competitor of GECAS that acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10% of our common shares either to tender for all of our remaining common shares for no less than their fair market value, or sell such number of common shares to us or to third parties as would reduce its beneficial ownership to less than 10%, in either case within 90 days of our request to so tender or sell; • provisions that reduce the vote of each common share held by a competitor of GECAS that beneficially owns 10% or more, but less than 50%, of our common shares to one-fifth of one vote per share on all matters upon which shareholders may vote; • provisions that permit our board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue such preference shares without shareholder approval; • advance notice requirements by shareholders for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and • no provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors, such that all the directors standing for election may be elected by our shareholders by a plurality of votes cast at a duly convened annual general meeting, the quorum for which is two or more persons present in person or by proxy at the start of the meeting and representing in excess of 50% of all votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote at the meeting. These provisions may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and/or our board of directors. Public shareholders who might desire to participate in these types of transactions may not have an opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control or change our management and board of directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our shares and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. We are a Bermuda company that is managed and controlled in Ireland. It may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments against us or against our directors and executive officers. We were incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and are managed and controlled in Ireland. Our business is based outside the United States, a majority of our directors and officers, and some of the experts named in this Annual Report, reside outside the United States and a majority of our assets and some or all of the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons, or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda or Ireland against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda or Irish law and do not have force of law in Bermuda or Ireland . However, a Bermuda or Irish court may impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda or Irish law. There is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda or Ireland would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers, as well as the experts named herein, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, or entertain actions brought in Bermuda or Ireland against us or such persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda or Ireland providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda or Irish courts may decline to enforce the judgments of U.S. courts. 30 Table of Contents Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda or Irish courts as contrary to public policy in Bermuda or Ireland. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda or Ireland, it may be difficult for you to recover against us or our directors and officers based upon such judgments. Shareholders of our company may have greater difficulties in protecting their interests than shareholders of U.S. corporations. The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended, which we refer to as the ‘‘Companies Act,’’ applies to our company and differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Taken together with the provisions of our bye-laws, some of these differences may result in greater difficulties in protecting the interests of shareholders of our company than of shareholders of a U.S. corporation. This affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights shareholders may have to enforce specified provisions of the Companies Act or our bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. Risks Related to Taxation We are a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC. Unless U.S. holders of our shares make certain elections under U.S. federal income tax rules, they are subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules. Because we are a PFIC, U.S. holders of our shares are subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules. Under the PFIC rules, a U.S. holder who disposes or is deemed to dispose of our shares at a gain, or who receives or is deemed to receive certain distributions with respect to our shares, generally will be required to treat such gain or distributions as ordinary income and pay an interest charge on the tax imposed. Certain elections may be used to reduce or eliminate the adverse impact of the PFIC rules for holders of our shares (‘‘QEF elections’’ and ‘‘mark-to-market’’ elections), but these elections may accelerate the recognition of taxable income and may result in the recognition of ordinary income in excess of amounts distributed to you. In addition, because we are a PFIC, our distributions will not qualify for the reduced rate of U.S. federal income tax that applies to qualified dividends paid to non - -corporate U.S. taxpayers. The PFIC rules are extremely complex, and prospective U.S. investors are urged to consult their own tax advisers regarding the potential consequences to them of our being classified as a PFIC. See Item 10.E. ‘‘Taxation Considerations — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Taxation of U.S. Holders of Shares.’’ We may fail to qualify for tax treaty benefits and U.S. statutory tax exemptions which would reduce our net income and cash flow by the amount of the applicable tax. Special U.S. tax rules apply to U.S. source transportation income. U.S. source gross rental income that is not connected with a U.S. trade or business may be subject to 30% withholding tax. Alternatively, certain U.S. source rental income could be subject to a 4% tax on gross transportation income. U.S. source transportation income connected with a U.S. trade or business would be taxed on a net basis. In order for us to be exempt from U.S. federal income taxation on all categories of U.S. source rental income, we and our Irish tax resident subsidiaries must qualify for benefits of the Irish Treaty. Qualification for Irish Treaty benefits depends on many factors, including that at least 50% of the vote and value of each of our Irish tax resident subsidiaries continues to be held by us and that our principal class of shares be substantially and regularly traded on one or more recognized stock exchanges. We may not satisfy all the requirements of the Irish Tre aty and thereby may not qualify each year for the benefits of the Irish Treaty. Failure to so qualify could result in the income attributable to aircraft used for flights to, from or within the United States being subject to U.S. federal income taxation. The imposition of such taxes would adversely affect our business and would reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders. See Item 10.E. ‘‘Taxation Considerations — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Taxation of Genesis Lease Limited and 31 Table of Contents Our Subsidiaries’’. In addition, we cannot assure you that the Irish Treaty would not be re-negotiated in the future and the current tax treaty benefits may no longer be available. We may become subject to income or other taxes in the jurisdictions in which our aircraft operate, where our lessees are located or where we perform certain services which would adversely affect our business and reduce cash available for distributions to shareholders. We and our Irish tax resident subsidiaries are subject to the income tax laws of Ireland. In addition, we may be, or become, subject to income or other taxes in other jurisdictions by reason of our activities and operations or those of our service providers, where our aircraft operate or where the lessees of our aircraft (or others in possession of our aircraft) are located. The imposition of such taxes would adversely affect our business and would reduce earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, because Ireland does not have tax treaties with all jurisdictions, we may find it necessary to establish subsidiaries in other jurisdictions to lease or sublease aircraft to customers in those jurisdictions. Such subsidiaries may be subject to taxation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized, which would reduce our net income and have an adverse impact on our cash flow available for distribution to our shareholders. The tax rate applicable to us and our Irish tax resident subsidiaries would be higher than we expect if we or they were considered not to be carrying on a trade in Ireland for the purposes of Irish law. Because we are managed and controlled in Ireland, we and our Irish resident subsidiaries are subject to Irish corporation tax on our net trading income at the rate of 12.5%. Under Irish tax law, non-trading income is taxed at the rate of 25% and capital gains are taxed at the rate of 20%. Each of us intend to carry on sufficient activity in Ireland, directly and indirectly, through a servicer, so as to be treated as carrying on a trade in Ireland for the purposes of Irish tax law. In calculating our net trading income we deduct tax depreciation on the aircraft. Whether we and our Irish tax-resident subsidiaries are carrying on a trade for the purposes of Irish tax are questions of fact and we cannot assure you that we or they will qualify, and we will depend on the Irish Revenue authorities accepting that we are engaged in an active business in Ireland. One of the grounds for our Irish tax resident subsidiaries being treated as engaged in an active business in Ireland is that GECAS, as servicer for the initial portfolio, is an Irish company, and GECAS performs a major part of its obligations under the servicing agreement for the initial portfolio in Ireland. However, the servicing agreement does not require that GECAS perform any of its obligations in Ireland, and GECAS could relocate its operations in the future and not perform any such obligations in Ireland. If that happens, the Irish Revenue Authorities may reexamine the eligibility of our Irish tax resident subsidiaries for the 12.5% tax rate, and, if they were found to be not engaged in an active business in Ireland, all of their net income from leasing would be subject to the higher Irish corporate tax rate of 25%. As a result, our Irish tax resident subsidiaries would be liable earlier and in greater amounts for tax on such income. If we or any of our Irish tax resident subsidiaries were considered not to be carrying on a trade in Ireland, we or they may be subject to additional Irish tax liabilities. The application of a higher tax rate (25% instead of 12.5%) on taxable income could reduce the cash flow available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, we cannot assure you that the 12.5% tax rate applicable to trading income, the 20% tax rate applicable to capital gains or the 25% tax rate applicable to non-trading income will not be changed in the future. 32 Table of Contents 