ITEM1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this report, before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to effect a business combination. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. If we are forced to dissolve and liquidate before a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders may receive less than $8.00 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. We must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount) at the time of acquisition by April 24, 2008 (18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering) or by October 24, 2008 (within 24 months from the consummation of our initial public offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering). If we are unable to complete a business combination within the prescribed time frame and are forced to dissolve and liquidate our assets, the per share liquidation distribution may be less than $8.00 because of the expenses paid in our initial public offering. Furthermore, there will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless if we dissolve and liquidate before the completion of a business combination. If we do not consummate a business combination and are forced to dissolve, payments from the trust account to our public stockholders may be delayed. We currently believe that any plan of dissolution and distribution subsequent to the expiration of the 18 and 24-month deadlines would proceed in approximately the following manner: · our board of directors will, consistent with its obligations described in our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation to dissolve, prior to the passing of such deadline, convene and adopt a specific plan of dissolution and distribution, which it will then vote to recommend to our stockholders; at such time it will also cause to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting out the plan of dissolution and distribution as well as the board’s recommendation of the plan; · promptly after the passing of such deadline, we would file our preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission; · if the Securities and Exchange Commission does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then, ten days following the passing of such deadline, we will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders, and 30 days following the passing of such deadline we will convene a meeting of our stockholders, at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and distribution; and · if the Securities and Exchange Commission does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive such comments within approximately 30 days following the passing of such deadline. We will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty, and which may be substantial) and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and distribution. 7 In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and distribution and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. Pursuant to the terms of our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our powers following the expiration of the permitted time periods for consummating a business combination will automatically be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation. The funds held in our trust account may not be distributed except upon our dissolution and, unless and until approval is obtained from our stockholders, the funds held in our trust account will not be released. These procedures, or a vote to reject any plan of dissolution and distribution by our stockholders, may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and distribution. Upon distribution of the trust account, our stockholders may be held liable for claims of third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If a corporation complies with certain statutory procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that the corporation makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred from claims brought after the third anniversary of the dissolution. The procedures in Section 280 include a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims may be brought against us, a 90-day period during which we may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions may be made to stockholders. We do not intend to follow the procedures in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, and therefore, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our holders of common stock sold in our initial public offering may extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. If the net proceeds from the initial public offering that were not placed in the trust account are insufficient to allow us to operate until October, 2008, we may not be able to complete a business combination. We currently believe that the funds available to us from the net proceeds from our initial public offering not placed in the trust account together with funds borrowed from David C. McCourt on March 14, 2008, are sufficient to allow us to operate until October, 2008, and any potential business combination will have to include additional financing. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of these funds to pay due diligence costs in connection with a potential business combination or to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target acquisition. We could also use a portion of these funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target acquisitions from “shopping” around for transactions with others on terms more favorable to such target acquisitions) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into such a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target acquisition and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to any other potential target acquisitions. You are not entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with an unidentified target acquisition, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC promptly following the consummation of our offering including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors are not afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to these rules, including Rule 419, our units were immediately tradable and we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances than we would if we were subject to such rule. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per share liquidation price received by stockholders will be less than the approximately $7.88 per share held in trust. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Upon our dissolution, we will be required, pursuant to Delaware General Corporate Law Sections 280 and 281, to pay or make reasonable provision to pay all of our claims and obligations, including contingent or conditional claims, which we intend to pay, to the extent sufficient to do so, from our funds not held in the trust account. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. 8 Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our management would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and would enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver only if management believed that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. In addition, creditors may seek to interfere with the distribution process under state or federal creditor and bankruptcy laws. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders. We cannot assure you that the per share distribution from the trust account will not be less than approximately $7.88 (of which $0.32 per share is attributable to the underwriters’ deferred discount), plus net interest accrued, due to such claims, or that there will not be delays in distributing funds in addition to those imposed by our duties to comply with Delaware General Corporation Law procedures and federal securities laws and regulations. Mr. McCourt has agreed that he will be personally liable to cover claims made by such third parties, but only if, and to the extent, the claims reduce the amounts in the trust account available for payment to our stockholders in the event of a liquidation and the claims are made by a vendor for services rendered, or products sold, to us or by a prospective target business. However, Mr. McCourt will not have any personal liability as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party who executed a waiver, or as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933. However, we cannot assure you that Mr. McCourt will be able to satisfy those obligations. Under Delaware law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering contained in our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains certain requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering that will apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides among other things, that: · approximately $88,650,000 of the proceeds from our initial public offering, as well as the underwriters’ deferred discount and the proceeds of the private placement, were deposited into the trust account, which proceeds may not be disbursed from the trust account until the earlier of (i) a business combination or (ii) our liquidation, or as otherwise permitted in our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation; · prior to consummating our initial business combination, we must submit such business combination to our stockholders for approval; · we may consummate our initial business combination if it is approved by public stockholders holding a majority of the shares of our common stock sold in our initial public offering and voted by our public stockholders and if public stockholders owning less than 20% of the shares sold in our initial public offering both vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights; · if our initial business combination is approved and consummated, public stockholders who voted against the business combination and who exercised their own conversion rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account (including the underwriters’ deferred discount); · if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle, or a definitive agreement is not signed within the time periods specified in this prospectus, then we will be dissolved and distribute to all of our public stockholders their pro rata share of the trust account; and · we may not consummate any other merger, capital stock exchange, stock purchase, asset acquisition or similar transaction other than a business combination that meets the conditions specified in this prospectus, including the requirement that the business combination be with one or more operating businesses whose fair market value, collectively, is at least equal to 80% of our net assets (excluding the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of such business combination. Our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires that we obtain the unanimous consent of stockholders to amend the above provisions. However, the validity of unanimous consent provisions under Delaware law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the unanimous consent requirement constitutes a practical prohibition on amendment in violation of the stockholders’ implicit rights to amend the company’s fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation. In that case, some or all of the above provisions could be amended without unanimous consent and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders. However, we view the foregoing provisions as obligations to our stockholders and we will not take any action to waive or amend any of these provisions that would take effect prior to the consummation of a business combination. Since we have not yet selected any target acquisition with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business’ operations. Because we have not yet selected a prospective target acquisition, investors currently have no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target acquisition. We cannot assure you that our management, when evaluating a prospective target acquisition, will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in a target acquisition. Except for the limitation that a target acquisition may have a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount) at the time of the acquisition, we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. 9 There may be tax consequences associated with our acquisition, holding and disposition of target companies and assets. We may incur significant taxes in connection with effecting acquisitions; holding, receiving payments from, and operating target companies and assets; and disposing of target companies and assets. We may issue shares of our capital stock to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and could potentially cause a change in control of our ownership. Our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 5,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. There are 70,687,500 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (including appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants) and 5,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitment to do so, we are likely to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors; · may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; · could potentially cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may issue debt securities, which could limit our ability to operate our business and return value to our stockholders. If we issue debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding; · our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; · using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; · increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; · limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes; and · other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. 10 Our ability to successfully consummate a business combination and to be successful thereafter will be dependent upon the efforts of our management. Our ability to successfully consummate a business combination will be dependent upon the efforts of our current key personnel. The future role of our current key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. None of our current key personnel have entered into either employment or consulting agreements with us and they may only remain with the combined company upon the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate and agree to mutually acceptable employment or consultancy terms, which terms would be determined at such time by the respective parties and disclosed to stockholders at the time we seek approval for the initial business combination. Furthermore, we will not be able to grant shares of common stock or options to our current key personnel prior to the earlier of the completion of a business combination or the total release of funds in the trust account, which may affect our hiring and retention efforts. Even if our current key personnel remain with us following a business combination, there is no assurance that the business combination will be successful. For example, Mr. McCourt was the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of RCN Corporation in May 2004 when it went through a voluntary reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Additionally, we may also employ other personnel following a business combination, including the management associated with the acquisition candidate. Our officers and directors will allocate some portion of their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our officers and directors are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If an officer or director is required to devote more substantial amounts of time to his or her other businesses and affairs, it could limit his or her ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with additional entities that are, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Some of our officers and directors are affiliated with entities in the telecommunications and media industry. David C. McCourt, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, is the Chairman and interim Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer of Narrowstep, Inc., a company that provides television services over the Internet and Roger L. Werner, Jr., one of our directors, is Chairman of Werner Telesport, LLC, a sports programming production company, and serves as a director of Narrowstep, Inc. and WATV Productions, a vehicle enthusiasts production company. In addition Paul N. D’Addario, a director, is the founder and Senior Managing Director of Palisades Ventures, a technology and media growth fund. Several of our officers are also officers of Granahan McCourt Capital, LLC, a private investment firm founded by Mr. McCourt focused on making minority investments in, and advising, companies in the telecommunications and media industries. Mr. McCourt is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Bar-Cohen is President and Chief Operating Officer, and Ms. Ito is Chief Administrative Officer. To the extent a business presents mutually exclusive opportunities including both the possibility of being acquired by us and the possibility of a minority investment by or an advising contract with Granahan McCourt Capital, LLC our officers could face conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. One of our directors, Barry S. Sternlicht, is currently the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Third Wave Acquisition Corp, a blank check company, which is in registration with the SEC. However all of our officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with additional entities, including other “blank check” companies. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that any of these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. If we seek to effect a business combination with an entity that is directly or indirectly affiliated with one or more of our officers and directors, conflicts of interest could arise. Our officers and directors either currently have or may in the future have affiliations with companies in the telecommunications and media industries. If we were to seek a business combination with a target business with which one or more of our officers or directors may be affiliated, conflicts of interest could arise in connection with negotiating the terms of and completing the business combination. Conflicts that may arise may not be resolved in our favor. In the event we pursue a business combination with an entity with which one or more of officers and directors is affiliated, we would obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm regarding the fairness to our stockholders from a financial point of view of the business combination. Our officers and directors are not currently aware of any specific opportunities to consummate a business combination with any entities with which they are affiliated, whether by virtue of the sale of assets, spin-off, divestiture or otherwise, and there have been no preliminary discussions or indications of interest with any such entity or entities. Although we will not be specifically focusing on or targeting any transaction with any entities affiliated with any of our officers and directors, and we are unaware of any such actual or potential transaction as of the date of this prospectus, we would consider such a transaction after the offering if any such opportunity were presented to us. It is possible that we could consider an opportunity with entities affiliated with any of our officers and directors without first seeking to consummate a business combination with an entity that is not affiliated with any of our officers and directors. 11 Our current officers and directors may resign upon consummation of a business combination. Upon consummation of a business combination, the role of our officers and directors in the target business cannot presently be fully ascertained. We may employ other personnel following the business combination. If we acquire a target business in an all cash transaction, it would be more likely that our management team and certain of our directors would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company, following a business combination, it may be less likely that our management team would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. If, as a condition to a potential business combination, our management team negotiates to be retained after the consummation of the business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, we will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate, as part of the business combination, that certain of our management team and directors remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company after the consummation of the business combination. The 2,812,500 shares of common stock owned by our officers and directors will not participate in liquidation distributions, and a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular target acquisition is appropriate for a business combination. Our officers and directors own, in the aggregate, 2,812,500 shares of our common stock and the 4,000,000 warrants purchased in the private placement, but have waived their right to receive distributions (other than with respect to any units they purchase in our initial public offering or units, warrants or common stock they purchase in the aftermarket) upon our dissolution and liquidation prior to a business combination. Such shares and warrants owned by our officers and directors will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, our officers’ and directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our public stockholders’ best interest. There is no guarantee that a market for our securities will be maintained, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. Investors have access to information from only a relatively short period of our prior market history. The price of our securities may vary significantly due to reports of operating losses, one or more potential business combinations, the filing of periodic reports with the SEC and general market or economic conditions. Furthermore, an active trading market for our securities may not be sustained. You may be unable to sell your securities unless a market can be sustained. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Initially, we may only be able to complete one business combination, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. The net proceeds from our initial public offering provided us with approximately $81,050,000, which, along with $4,000,000 of the proceeds from the private placement and the $3,600,000 underwriters’ deferred discount (an aggregate of $88,650,000), is held in the trust account and may be used by us to complete a business combination. Our business combination must be with a business having a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount) at the time of such business combination. We have no limitation on our ability to raise additional funds through the private sale of securities or the incurrence of indebtedness that would enable us to effect a business combination with an operating business having a fair market value in excess of 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount) at the time of such a business combination. Consequently, initially it is probable that we will have the ability to complete only a single business combination. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including insufficient financing or the difficulties involved in consummating the contemporaneous acquisition of more than one operating company. Therefore, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete a business combination with only a single operating business, which may have only a limited number of products or services. The resulting lack of diversification may: 12 · result in our dependency upon the performance of a single or small number of operating businesses; · result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services; and · subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry so as to diversify risks and offset losses. Further, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of the initial target business or businesses we acquire. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our initial stockholders with respect to any shares they owned prior to our initial public offering) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. An initial stockholder who acquires shares in the offering or thereafter in the open market, however, would be a public stockholder with respect to such shares and retains the right to exercise the conversion rights attributable to such shares. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata share of the trust account. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having to incur an amount of leverage that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate a business combination during the prescribed time period. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies, and operating businesses competing for the types of businesses that we intend to primarily focus on. Many of these individuals and entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of companies in the telecommunications and media industries. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge, than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. Accordingly, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target acquisitions that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target acquisitions. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, the warrants underlying units issued in connection with our initial public offering and the warrants issued in connection with the private placement and their dilutive effect they may not be viewed favorably by certain target acquisitions. Also, our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We may have insufficient resources to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of consummating a business combination. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $306,180 remaining from the proceeds of our initial public offering outside the trust account and on March 14, 2008 we borrowed $250,000 from David C. McCourt. These funds are available to cover our operating expenses until October, 2008, including expenses incurred in connection with a business combination, based upon our management’s estimate of the amount required for these purposes. This estimate may prove inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with a business combination or if we expend a significant portion of the available proceeds in pursuit of a business combination that is not consummated. 13 We may not be able to obtain additional financing, on acceptable terms, if at all, and neither our sponsor, Mr. McCourt, nor other members of our management team is obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be forced to liquidate prior to consummating a business combination. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. Our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. David C. McCourt and our other officers and directors collectively, own 20% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, there is no restriction on the ability of our initial stockholders to purchase units or shares of our common stock either in our initial public offering or in the open market after completion of the offering. If they were to do so, the percentage of our outstanding common stock held by our initial stockholders would increase. Our board of directors will be divided into three classes, each of which generally will serve for a term of three years, with only one class of directors being elected in each year. There may not be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of this “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors would be considered for election. As a result, our officers and directors may exert considerable influence on actions requiring a stockholder vote, including the election of officers and directors, amendments to our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the approval of benefit plans, mergers, and similar transactions. Moreover, except to the extent stockholder proposals are properly and timely submitted, our directors will determine which matters, including prospective business combinations, to submit to a stockholder vote. As a result, they will exert substantial control over actions requiring a stockholder vote both before and following a business combination. In connection with the stockholder vote required for a business combination, all of our initial stockholders, including all of our officers and directors, have agreed to vote all of the shares of common stock owned by them immediately prior to the offering in accordance with the majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders. In addition, our initial stockholders have agreed to vote all of the shares owned by them in favor of our dissolution in the event we are unable to timely complete a business combination. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We have issued and outstanding warrants to purchase up to 15,250,000 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target acquisition. Such warrants, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Therefore, our outstanding warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target acquisition. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent our warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. The exercise by our initial stockholders of their registration rights may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of the registration rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial stockholders are entitled to make a demand that we file a registration statement to register their shares of common stock held prior to our initial public offering and the warrants sold in the private placement, including any shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, at any time commencing 90 days prior to the expiration of the transfer restrictions on such securities. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock, including those underlying the warrants issued in the private placement, then there will be an additional 6,812,500 shares, or an additional 60.6% of the post-offering shares of our common stock, eligible for trading in the public market (assuming no exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option and no exercise of warrants by our public stockholders). The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target acquisition, as the stockholders of the target acquisition may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or may request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of the registration rights may have on the trading market for our common stock. 14 If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, or we may be required to incur additional expenses if we are unable to dissolve after the expiration of the allotted time periods. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. To this end, the proceeds from our initial public offering held in the trust account may be invested by the trust agent only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 with a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. In addition, if we do not complete a business combination by April 24, 2008 (18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering) or by October 24, 2008 (24 months from the consummation of our initial public offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement has been executed by April 24, 2008 and a business combination has not yet been consummated), our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation (a) provides that our corporate powers will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and (b) requires that, within 15 days after the expiration of the allotted time periods, our board of directors adopt a resolution finding our dissolution advisable and that it provide notice as soon as possible thereafter of a special meeting of stockholders to vote on our dissolution. If our stockholders do not approve our dissolution in a timely manner or at all, we will not be able to liquidate and distribute the trust account to holders of our common stock sold in our initial public offering for an extended period of time or indefinitely, and, consequently, we may be deemed to be an investment company. If we are deemed to be an investment company at any time, we will be required to comply with additional regulatory requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940 which would require additional expenses for which we have not budgeted. We may or may not obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party as to the fair market value of the target acquisition or that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our stockholders. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that either the target acquisition we select has a fair market value in excess of 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount) or that the price we are paying is fair to stockholders. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment or our board of directors. The American Stock Exchange may require us to submit a new listing application, subject to the initial listing requirements, in connection with a business combination, or may delist our securities from trading on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to effect transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future. In addition, in connection with a business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange in the future, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which would require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · more limited amount of news and analyst coverage for us; · decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and · decreased ability of our security holders to sell their securities in certain states. 15 If we are unable to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock underlying our warrants, our warrants may have no value and the market for our warrants may be limited. Our warrants are not exercisable unless, at the time of exercise, a post-effective amendment to the initial public offering registration statement, or a new registration statement, is effective which includes a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and the common stock underlying the warrants has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holders of our warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us, we have agreed to use our best efforts to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of our warrants until the expiration of our warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. In addition, the warrant agreement provides that we are not required to net-cash settle the warrants if we are unable to maintain a current prospectus. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, our warrants may not be exercisable before they expire. Thus, our warrants may be deprived of any value and the market for our warrants may be limited. Even if warrant holders are not able to exercise their warrants because there is no current prospectus or the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, we can exercise our redemption rights. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. We may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units (including the warrants sold in the private placement) at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include a staggered board of directors and the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. As a result, at any annual meeting only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election. Since our “staggered board” would prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our board of directors at any annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. Risks Related to Doing Business Outside the United States Since we may acquire a target business that is located outside the United States, we may encounter risks specific to one or more countries in which we ultimately operate. We may acquire a business or businesses with some relationship to countries outside of the United States. If we acquire a company that has operations outside the United States, we will be exposed to risks that could negatively impact our future results of operations following a business combination. The additional risks we may be exposed to in these cases include but are not limited to: · tariffs and trade barriers; · regulations related to customs and import/export matters; · tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; · cultural and language differences; · foreign exchange controls; · the possibility of our assets being nationalized; · crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and · deterioration of political relations with the United States. 16 Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial results. A target business with which we combine may do business and generate sales within other countries. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in such international operations. It is also possible that some or all of our operating expenses may be incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies in those countries where we have operations against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements prepared in accordance with and reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we will not be able to complete a business combination with some prospective target businesses unless their financial statements are first reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The federal securities laws require that a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports and proxy materials submitted to stockholders. Because our initial business combination must be with a target business that has a fair market value equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such business combination (all of our assets, including the funds held in the trust account other than the deferred underwriting discount, less our liabilities), we will be required to provide historical and/or pro forma financial information to our stockholders when seeking approval of a business combination with one or more target businesses. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. If a proposed target business, including one located outside of the United States, does not have financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. Risks Associated with the Telecommunications and Media Industries We may be subject to significant regulatory requirements in connection with our efforts to consummate a business combination with a company in the telecommunications and media industries, which may result in our failure to consummate our initial business combination within the required time frame and may force us to liquidate. Acquisitions of telecommunications and media companies are often subject to significant regulatory requirements and consents, and we will not be able to consummate a business combination with certain types of telecommunications and media companies without complying with applicable laws and regulations and obtaining required governmental or client consents. We may not receive any such required approvals or we may not receive them in a timely manner, including as a result of factors or matters beyond our control. Satisfying any requirements of regulatory agencies may delay the date of our completion of our initial business combination beyond the required time frame. If we fail to consummate our initial business combination within the required time frame we may be forced to dissolve and liquidate. Our investments in telecommunications and media companies may be extremely risky due, in part, to market conditions, and we could lose all or part of our investments. An investment in telecommunications and media companies may be extremely risky relative to an investment in companies operating in other industries. Telecommunications and media companies typically have limited operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. In addition, telecommunications and media companies generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In recent years, a number of internet companies have filed for bankruptcy or liquidated, and many large companies whose purchases affect the demand for products and services in the telecommunications and media industries have experienced financial difficulties, which may result in decreased demand for such products and services in the future. Our investments in the telecommunications and media industries may be extremely risky and we could lose all or part of our investments. The information available regarding telecommunications and media companies is limited which could result in poor investment decisions on our part and we could lose all or part of our investments. Many telecommunications and media companies are privately owned and there is generally little publicly available information about these businesses; therefore, we may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these businesses. As a result, we may make investment decisions based on incomplete information or we may be unaware of material problems in a business in which we invest, which make our investments extremely risky. If we make an investment in a telecommunications and media company that is dependent on current management, the loss of such management may materially affect results of operations. Telecommunications and media companies are often dependent on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the operations of any telecommunications and media companies we may acquire. 17 The telecommunications and media industries are highly cyclical, which may materially affect our future performance and ability to sell our products or services and, in turn, hurt our profitability. Customers of telecommunications and media products and services tend to defer purchases during periods of economic weakness, opting instead to continue to use what they already own. As a consequence, revenues and earnings for telecommunications and media companies may fluctuate more than those of less economically sensitive companies. Due to the cyclical nature of the telecommunications and media industries, inventories may not always be properly balanced, resulting in lost sales when there are shortages or write-offs when there are excess inventories. This may materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, and results of operations of any target businesses that we may acquire. Moreover, many of the customers of telecommunications and media products and services also may be subject to similar cycles and less able to pay for such products and services during periods of economic weakness. If we are unable to keep pace with the changes in the telecommunications and media industries, the products of any target business that we acquire could become obsolete and it could materially hurt our results of operations. The telecommunications and media industries are generally characterized by intense, rapid changes, often resulting in product obsolescence or short product life cycles. Our ability to compete after the consummation of a business combination will be dependent upon our ability to keep pace with changes in the industry. If we are ultimately unable to adapt our operations as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations following a business combination will be materially adversely affected. The telecommunications and media industries are highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively which could materially adversely affect our revenues and profitability upon consummation of a business combination. The telecommunications and media industries are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We expect competition to intensify in the future. Many of the competitors we will face upon consummation of a business combination will have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than we do. Competing with these companies after a business combination will require investment by us in engineering, research and development and marketing. We may not have the resources to make these investments and may not be successful in making these investments. In addition, the management of our competitors may have greater operating resources and experience in their respective industries. Some of these competitors may also offer a wider range of services than we can and may have greater name recognition and a larger client base. For example, cable network operators and communications operators are increasingly offering similar products in an effort to become an all-in-one provider of voice, high speed internet access and video services to customers. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. They may also be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to clients, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. If we are unable to compete effectively following a business combination, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to comply with government regulations that may be adopted with respect to the telecommunications and media industries. The telecommunications and media industries have historically been subject to substantial government regulation. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, is continuing implementation of the Communications Act of 1996, which, when fully implemented, may significantly impact the telecommunications and media industries and change federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding the provision of cable, internet and telephony services. After we complete a business combination, these regulations may materially affect the types of products or services we may offer, the rates we are permitted to charge and our method of operation. We cannot assure you that regulations currently in effect or adopted in the future will not have a material adverse affect on our ability to acquire a particular target or the operations of a business acquired by us. We may be unable to protect or enforce the intellectual property rights of any target businesses that we acquire. After completing a business combination, the procurement and protection of trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets will likely be critical to our success. We will likely rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect any proprietary technology and rights that we may acquire. Despite our efforts to protect those proprietary technology and rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of those proprietary rights or deter independent development of technologies that compete with the business we acquire. Our competitors may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights and seek damages, the payment of royalties, licensing fees and/or an injunction against the sale of our products or services. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. It is also possible that third parties may claim we have infringed their patent, trademark, copyright or other proprietary rights. Claims or litigation, with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and business. Depending on the target business or businesses that we acquire, it is likely that we will have to protect copyrights, trademarks, patents, and domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful in every location. With respect to certain proprietary rights, such as trademarks and copyrighted materials, of the target business or businesses that we will acquire, we expect that the target business or businesses will have entered into license agreements in the past and will continue to enter into such agreements in the future. These licensees may take actions that materially diminish the value of such target business or businesses’ proprietary rights or cause material harm to such target business or businesses’ reputation. 18 Government regulation of the telecommunications and media industries and the uncertainty over government regulation of the Internet could harm our operating results and future prospects. Certain segments of the telecommunications and media industries historically have been subject to substantial government regulation, both in the United States and overseas. If we complete a business combination with a target business or businesses in these industries, changes in regulatory requirements in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products, limit the growth of the markets we serve, or require costly alterations of current or future products. Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers. On the other hand, few laws or regulations currently apply directly to access of or commerce on the Internet. New regulations governing the Internet and Internet commerce, if adopted, could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition following a business combination. New regulations governing the Internet and Internet commerce could include matters such as changes in encryption requirements, sales taxes on Internet product sales, and access charges for Internet service and/or content and/or commerce providers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 