Risk Factors—Risks Inherent in Our Business” for a discussion of the risks related to our ability to pay dividends. Item 9. The Offer and Listing Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “DAC.” 79 Trading on the New York Stock Exchange Since our initial public offering in the United States in October 2006, our common stock has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “DAC.” The following table shows the high and low sales prices for our common stock during the indicated periods. High Low 2006 (Annual) $ 24.10 $ 19.61 2006 Fourth Quarter (October 6 to December 31) 24.10 19.61 October (October 6 to October 31) 21.45 20.06 November 22.69 19.61 December 24.10 22.09 2007 First Quarter 26.53 23.25 January 25.23 23.63 February 24.97 23.25 March 26.53 23.94 Second Quarter (through May 25) 33.55 26.11 April 29.79 26.11 May (through May 25) 33.55 28.14 Item 10. Additional Information Share Capital Under our articles of incorporation, our authorized capital stock consists of 200,000,000 shares of common stock, $.01 par value per share, of which, as of December 31, 2006 and May 15, 2007, 54,557,500 shares were issued and outstanding and fully paid, and 5,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock, $.01 par value per share, of which, as of December 31, 2006 and May 15, 2007, no shares were issued and outstanding and fully paid. One million shares of the blank check preferred stock have been designated Series A Participating Preferred Stock in connection with our adoption of a stockholder rights plan as described below under “—Stockholder Rights Plan.” All of our shares of stock are in registered form. Common Stock Each outstanding share of common stock entitles the holder to one vote on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. Subject to preferences that may be applicable to any outstanding shares of preferred stock, holders of shares of common stock are entitled to receive ratably all dividends, if any, declared by our board of directors out of funds legally available for dividends. Holders of common stock do not have conversion, redemption or preemptive rights to subscribe to any of our securities. All outstanding shares of common stock are fully paid and nonassessable. The rights, preferences and privileges of holders of shares of common stock are subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock which we may issue in the future. There were 500 shares of common stock outstanding on October 7, 2005, the date our company was domesticated in the Republic of The Marshall Islands. On September 18, 2006 we effected an 88,615-for-1 stock split. Blank Check Preferred Stock Under the terms of our articles of incorporation, our board of directors has authority, without any further vote or action by our stockholders, to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock, 80 of which 1,000,000 shares have been designated Series A Participating Preferred Stock in connection with our adoption of a stockholder rights plan as described below under “—Stockholder Rights Plan.” Our board of directors may issue shares of preferred stock on terms calculated to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or the removal of our management. Stockholder Rights Plan General Each share of our common stock includes a right that entitles the holder to purchase from us a unit consisting of one-thousandth of a share of our Series A participating preferred stock at a purchase price of $25.00 per unit, subject to specified adjustments. The rights are issued pursuant to a rights agreement between us and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as rights agent. Until a right is exercised, the holder of a right will have no rights to vote or receive dividends or any other stockholder rights. The rights may have anti-takeover effects. The rights will cause substantial dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. As a result, the overall effect of the rights may be to render more difficult or discourage any attempt to acquire us. Because our board of directors can approve a redemption of the rights or a permitted offer, the rights should not interfere with a merger or other business combination approved by our board of directors. The adoption of the rights agreement was approved by our stockholders prior to our initial public offering. We have summarized the material terms and conditions of the rights agreement and the rights below. For a complete description of the rights, we encourage you to read the rights agreement, which we have filed as an exhibit to this annual report. Detachment of the Rights The rights are attached to all certificates representing our outstanding common stock and will attach to all common stock certificates we issue prior to the rights distribution date that we describe below. The rights are not exercisable until after the rights distribution date and will expire at the close of business on the tenth anniversary date of the adoption of the rights plan, unless we redeem or exchange them earlier as described below. The rights will separate from the common stock and a rights distribution date will occur, subject to specified exceptions, on the earlier of the following two dates: · 10 days following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons or an “acquiring person” has acquired or obtained the right to acquire beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock; or · 10 business days following the start of a tender or exchange offer that would result, if closed, in a person becoming an “acquiring person.” Existing stockholders and their affiliates are excluded from the definition of “acquiring person” for purposes of the rights, and therefore their ownership or future share acquisitions cannot trigger the rights. Specified “inadvertent” owners that would otherwise become an acquiring person, including those who would have this designation as a result of repurchases of common stock by us, will not become acquiring persons as a result of those transactions. Our board of directors may defer the rights distribution date in some circumstances, and some inadvertent acquisitions will not result in a person becoming an acquiring person if the person promptly divests itself of a sufficient number of shares of common stock. 81 Until the rights distribution date: · our common stock certificates will evidence the rights, and the rights will be transferable only with those certificates; and · any new shares of common stock will be issued with rights and new certificates will contain a notation incorporating the rights agreement by reference. As soon as practicable after the rights distribution date, the rights agent will mail certificates representing the rights to holders of record of common stock at the close of business on that date. After the rights distribution date, only separate rights certificates will represent the rights. We will not issue rights with any shares of common stock we issue after the rights distribution date, except as our board of directors may otherwise determine. Flip-In Event A “flip-in event” will occur under the rights agreement when a person becomes an acquiring person. If a flip-in event occurs and we do not redeem the rights as described under the heading “—Redemption of Rights” below, each right, other than any right that has become void, as described below, will become exercisable at the time it is no longer redeemable for the number of shares of common stock, or, in some cases, cash, property or other of our securities, having a current market price equal to two times the exercise price of such right. If a flip-in event occurs, all rights that then are, or in some circumstances that were, beneficially owned by or transferred to an acquiring person or specified related parties will become void in the circumstances the rights agreement specifies. Flip-Over Event A “flip-over event” will occur under the rights agreement when, at any time after a person has become an acquiring person: · we are acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction; or · 50% or more of our assets, cash flows or earning power is sold or transferred. If a flip-over event occurs, each holder of a right, other than any right that has become void as we describe under the heading “—Flip-In Event” above, will have the right to receive the number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company having a current market price equal to two times the exercise price of such right. Antidilution The number of outstanding rights associated with our common stock is subject to adjustment for any stock split, stock dividend or subdivision, combination or reclassification of our common stock occurring prior to the rights distribution date. With some exceptions, the rights agreement does not require us to adjust the exercise price of the rights until cumulative adjustments amount to at least 1% of the exercise price. It also does not require us to issue fractional shares of our preferred stock that are not integral multiples of one one-hundredth of a share, and, instead we may make a cash adjustment based on the market price of the common stock on the last trading date prior to the date of exercise. The rights agreement reserves us the right to require, prior to the occurrence of any flip-in event or flip-over event that, on any exercise of rights, that a number of rights must be exercised so that we will issue only whole shares of stock. 82 Redemption of Rights At any time until 10 days after the date on which the occurrence of a flip-in event is first publicly announced, we may redeem the rights in whole, but not in part, at a redemption price of $.01 per right. The redemption price is subject to adjustment for any stock split, stock dividend or similar transaction occurring before the date of redemption. At our option, we may pay that redemption price in cash, shares of common stock or any other consideration our board of directors may select. The rights are not exercisable after a flip-in event until they are no longer redeemable. If our board of directors timely orders the redemption of the rights, the rights will terminate on the effectiveness of that action. Exchange of Rights We may, at our option, exchange the rights (other than rights owned by an acquiring person or an affiliate or an associate of an acquiring person, which have become void), in whole or in part. The exchange must be at an exchange ratio of one share of common stock per right, subject to specified adjustments at any time after the occurrence of a flip-in event and prior to: · any person other than our existing stockholders becoming the beneficial owner of common stock with voting power equal to 50% or more of the total voting power of all shares of common stock entitled to vote in the election of directors; or · the occurrence of a flip-over event. Amendment of Terms of Rights While the rights are outstanding, we may amend the provisions of the rights agreement only as follows: · to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency; · to make changes that do not adversely affect the interests of holders of rights, excluding the interests of any acquiring person; or · to shorten or lengthen any time period under the rights agreement, except that we cannot change the time period when rights may be redeemed or lengthen any time period, unless such lengthening protects, enhances or clarifies the benefits of holders of rights other than an acquiring person. At any time when no rights are outstanding, we may amend any of the provisions of the rights agreement, other than decreasing the redemption price. Memorandum and Articles of Association Our purpose is to engage in any lawful act or activity relating to the business of chartering, rechartering or operating containerships, drybulk carriers or other vessels or any other lawful act or activity customarily conducted in conjunction with shipping, and any other lawful act or activity approved by the board of directors. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws do not impose any limitations on the ownership rights of our stockholders. Under our bylaws, annual stockholder meetings will be held at a time and place selected by our board of directors. The meetings may be held in or outside of the Marshall Islands. Special meetings may be called by the board of directors or, at the request of the holders of a majority of our issued and outstanding stock entitled to vote on the matters proposed to be considered at such meeting, or by our secretary. Our board of directors may set a record date between 15 and 60 days before the date of any meeting to determine the stockholders that will be eligible to receive notice and vote at the meeting. 83 Directors Our directors are elected by a plurality of the votes cast at each annual meeting of the stockholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election. There is no provision for cumulative voting. The board of directors may change the number of directors to not less than two, nor more than 15, by a vote of a majority of the entire board. Each director shall be elected to serve until the third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, except in the event of death, resignation or removal. A vacancy on the board created by death, resignation, removal (which may only be for cause), or failure of the stockholders to elect the entire class of directors to be elected at any election of directors or for any other reason, may be filled only by an affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, at any special meeting called for that purpose or at any regular meeting of the board of directors. The board of directors has the authority to fix the amounts which shall be payable to the members of our board of directors for attendance at any meeting or for services rendered to us. Dissenters’ Rights of Appraisal and Payment Under the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the BCA, our stockholders have the right to dissent from various corporate actions, including any merger or sale of all or substantially all of our assets not made in the usual course of our business, and to receive payment of the fair value of their shares. In the event of any further amendment of our articles of incorporation, a stockholder also has the right to dissent and receive payment for his or her shares if the amendment alters certain rights in respect of those shares. The dissenting stockholder must follow the procedures set forth in the BCA to receive payment. In the event that we and any dissenting stockholder fail to agree on a price for the shares, the BCA procedures involve, among other things, the institution of proceedings in the high court of the Republic of The Marshall Islands in which our Marshall Islands office is situated or in any appropriate jurisdiction outside the Marshall Islands in which our shares are primarily traded on a local or national securities exchange. The value of the shares of the dissenting stockholder is fixed by the court after reference, if the court so elects, to the recommendations of a court-appointed appraiser. Stockholders’ Derivative Actions Under the BCA, any of our stockholders may bring an action in our name to procure a judgment in our favor, also known as a derivative action, provided that the stockholder bringing the action is a holder of common stock both at the time the derivative action is commenced and at the time of the transaction to which the action relates. Anti-takeover Provisions of our Charter Documents Several provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may have anti-takeover effects. These provisions are intended to avoid costly takeover battles, lessen our vulnerability to a hostile change of control and enhance the ability of our board of directors to maximize stockholder value in connection with any unsolicited offer to acquire us. However, these anti-takeover provisions, which are summarized below, could also discourage, delay or prevent (1) the merger or acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, that a stockholder may consider in its best interest and (2) the removal of incumbent officers and directors. 84 Blank Check Preferred Stock Under the terms of our articles of incorporation, our board of directors has authority, without any further vote or action by our stockholders, to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock, of which 1,000,000 shares have been designated Series A Participating Preferred Stock in connection with our adoption of a stockholder rights plan as described above under “—Stockholder Rights Plan.” Our board of directors may issue shares of preferred stock on terms calculated to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or the removal of our management. Classified Board of Directors Our articles of incorporation provide for a board of directors serving staggered, three-year terms. Approximately one-third of our board of directors will be elected each year. This classified board provision could discourage a third party from making a tender offer for our shares or attempting to obtain control of our company. It could also delay stockholders who do not agree with the policies of the board of directors from removing a majority of the board of directors for two years. Election and Removal of Directors Our articles of incorporation and bylaws prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors. Our bylaws require parties other than the board of directors to give advance written notice of nominations for the election of directors. Our bylaws also provide that our directors may be removed only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2¤3% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote for those directors. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent the removal of incumbent officers and directors. Calling of Special Meetings of Stockholders Our bylaws provide that special meetings of our stockholders may be called by our board of directors or, at the request of holders of a majority of the common stock entitled to vote at such meeting, by our secretary. Advance Notice Requirements for Stockholder Proposals and Director Nominations Our bylaws provide that stockholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of stockholders must provide timely notice of their proposal in writing to the corporate secretary. Generally, to be timely, a stockholder’s notice must be received at our principal executive offices not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary date of the previous year’s annual meeting. Our bylaws also specify requirements as to the form and content of a stockholder’s notice. These provisions may impede stockholders’ ability to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders or to make nominations for directors at an annual meeting of stockholders. Business Combinations Although the BCA does not contain specific provisions regarding “business combinations” between companies organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands and “interested stockholders,” we have included these provisions in our articles of incorporation. Specifically, our articles of incorporation prohibit us from engaging in a “business combination” with certain persons for three years following the date the person becomes an interested stockholder. Interested stockholders generally include: · any person who is the beneficial owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock; or 85 · any person who is our affiliate or associate and who held 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock at any time within three years before the date on which the person’s status as an interested stockholder is determined, and the affiliates and associates of such person. Subject to certain exceptions, a business combination includes, among other things: · certain mergers or consolidations of us or any direct or indirect majority-owned subsidiary of ours; · any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition of our assets or of any subsidiary of ours having an aggregate market value equal to 10% or more of either the aggregate market value of all assets of us, determined on a consolidated basis, or the aggregate value of all the outstanding stock of us; · certain transactions that result in the issuance or transfer by us of any stock of the corporation to the interested stockholder; · any transaction involving us or any of our subsidiaries that has the effect of increasing the proportionate share of any class or series of stock, or securities convertible into any class or series of stock, of ours or any such subsidiary that is owned directly or indirectly by the interested stockholder or any affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder; and · any receipt by the interested stockholder of the benefit directly or indirectly (except proportionately as a stockholder) of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial benefits provided by or through us. These provisions of our articles of incorporation do not apply to a business combination if: · before a person became an interested stockholder, our board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction in which the stockholder became an interested stockholder; · upon consummation of the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, other than certain excluded shares; · at or following the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by our board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, and not by written consent, by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2¤3% of our outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interest stockholder; · the stockholder was or became an interested stockholder prior to the consummation of the initial public offering of our common stock under the Securities Act; · a stockholder became an interested stockholder inadvertently and (i) as soon as practicable divests itself of ownership of sufficient shares so that the stockholder ceases to be an interested stockholder; and (ii) would not, at any time within the three-year period immediately prior to a business combination between our company and such stockholder, have been an interested stockholder but for the inadvertent acquisition of ownership; or · the business combination is proposed prior to the consummation or abandonment of and subsequent to the earlier of the public announcement or the notice required under our articles of incorporation which (i) constitutes one of the transactions described in the following sentence; (ii) is with or by a person who either was not an interested stockholder during the previous three years or who became an interested stockholder with the approval of the board; and (iii) is approved or not opposed by a majority of the members of the board of directors then in office (but not less than one) who were directors prior to any person becoming an interested stockholder during the previous three years or were recommended for election or elected to succeed such directors by a 86 majority of such directors. The proposed transactions referred to in the preceding sentence are limited to: (i) a merger or consolidation of our company (except for a merger in respect of which, pursuant to the BCA, no vote of the stockholders of our company is required); (ii) a sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of transactions), whether as part of a dissolution or otherwise, of assets of our company or of any direct or indirect majority-owned subsidiary of our company (other than to any direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary or to our company) having an aggregate market value equal to 50% or more of either that aggregate market value of all of the assets of our company determined on a consolidated basis or the aggregate market value of all the outstanding shares; or (iii) a proposed tender or exchange offer for 50% or more of our outstanding voting stock. Material Contracts The following is a summary of each material contract that we have entered into outside the ordinary course of business during the two year period immediately preceding the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F. Such summaries are not intended to be complete and reference is made to the contracts themselves, which are exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 20-F. (a) Amended and Restated Management Agreement, dated September 18, 2006, between Danaos Shipping Company Limited and Danaos Corporation. For a description of the Amended and Restated Management Agreement between Danaos Shipping Company Limited and Danaos Corporation, please see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Management Agreement.” (b) Restrictive Covenant Agreement, dated October 11, 2006, between Danaos Corporation and Dr. John Coustas. For a description of the Restrictive Covenant Agreement between Danaos Corporation and Dr. John Coustas, please see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Non-competition.” (c) Stockholder Rights Agreement, dated September 18, 2006, between Danaos Corporation and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as Rights Agent. For a description of the Stockholder Rights Agreement, please see “Item 10. Additional Information—Share Capital—Stockholder Rights Plan.” (d) Credit Facilities. HSH Nordbank Credit Facility On December 17, 2002, we, as guarantor, and certain of our vessel-owning subsidiaries, as borrowers, entered into a $60.0 million credit facility with HSH Nordbank AG and Dresdner Bank, which we refer to as the HSH Nordbank credit facility, with a term of 10 years to finance a portion of the purchase price of the Vancouver Express (ex P&O Nedlloyd Caribbean) and the Maersk Derby (ex P&O Nedlloyd Caracas). As of May 15, 2007, $48 million was outstanding under this credit facility. The interest rate on the HSH Nordbank credit facility is LIBOR plus 0.775%. Beginning on June 11, 2004, we began repaying the principal amount of this loan, which is payable in 40 consecutive quarterly installments of $1.0 million together with a balloon payment of $20.0 million payable with the final installment. 87 KEXIM Credit Facility On May 13, 2003, we, as guarantor, and certain of our vessel-owning subsidiaries, as borrowers, entered into a $124.4 million credit facility with the Export-Import Bank of Korea, which we refer to as our KEXIM credit facility, for a term of 12 years to finance a portion of the purchase price of the CSCL Europe and the CSCL America. As of May 15, 2007, $98.9 million was outstanding under this credit facility. Interest on borrowings under the KEXIM credit facility accrues at a rate of 5.0125%, which includes a fee of 0.3725% per annum. Beginning on December 15, 2004, we began repaying the principal amount of this loan in 48 consecutive quarterly installments of $2.6 million (except for the first installment of $1.5 million) plus installments of $1.3 million, $1.0 million and $0.69 million payable in August 2016, September 2016 and November 2016, respectively. In connection with our KEXIM facility, on November 15, 2004, we entered into an interest rate hedging transaction with RBS. The transaction is an amortizing interest rate swap, with the end result being the conversion of the fixed rate payable on the loan to a floating rate (U.S. dollar LIBOR). The notional amortizing schedule of the swap exactly mirrors the amortization schedule of the above loan. KEXIM-Fortis Credit Facility On January 29, 2004, we, as guarantor, and certain of our vessel-owning subsidiaries, as borrowers, entered into a $144.0 million credit facility with the Export-Import Bank of Korea and Fortis Capital, which we refer to as the KEXIM-Fortis credit facility, repayable over 12 years commencing with the delivery of the CSCL Pusan (ex HN 1559) and the CSCL Le Havre (ex HN 1561). As of May 15, 2007, $141.2 million was outstanding under this credit facility and there was no undrawn funds available. The KEXIM-Fortis credit facility is organized in two tranches, Tranche A and Tranche B. Each of Tranche A and Tranche B is comprised of two parts. One part of Tranche A, consisting of $67.5 million, and Tranche B, consisting of $4.5 million, is attributable to the CSCL Pusan. The second part of Tranche A, consisting of $67.5 million, and Tranche B, consisting of $4.5 million, is attributable to the CSCL Le Havre (ex HN 1561). The portion of Tranche A attributable to the CSCL Pusan (ex HN 1559) is repayable in 24 semi-annual installments of $2.8 million each, commencing on March 15, 2007. The portion of Tranche B attributable to the CSCL Pusan consists of a balloon payment of $4.5 million payable with the final installment of Tranche A on September 8, 2018. The portion of Tranche A attributable to the CSCL Le Havre is repayable in 24 semi-annual installments of $2.8 million each, commencing on March 15, 2007. The portion of Tranche B attributable to the CSCL Le Havre consists of a balloon payment of $4.5 payable with the final installment of Tranche A on March 15, 2019. Interest on borrowings under both tranches of the KEXIM-Fortis credit facility accrues at a rate of 5.02%, which includes a fee of 0.27% per annum. In addition, a commitment fee of 0.30% per annum has been accruing on the undrawn balance of Tranche A since February 2, 2004, the date of the first drawing thereunder, and a commitment fee of 0.50% per annum has been accruing on the undrawn balance of Tranche B since January 29, 2004. Aegean Baltic-HSH Nordbank Credit Facility On November 14, 2006, we, as borrower, and certain of our vessel-owning subsidiaries, as guarantors, entered into a $700.0 million revolving and term loan credit facility with Aegean Baltic Bank S.A. and HSH Nordbank AG, which we refer to as the Aegean Baltic-HSH Nordbank credit facility. The Aegean Baltic-HSH Nordbank credit facility is divided into two revolving credit tranches, Tranche A and Tranche B. Tranche A of the credit facility is for a committed amount of 88 $200.0 million and is collateralized by mortgages and other security relating to the APL Belgium, the CMA CGM Elbe, the CMA CGM Kalamata, the CMA CGM Komodo, the Henry, the Hyundai Commodore, the Hyundai Duke and the Independence. We used the borrowings under Tranche A to refinance outstanding indebtedness under our existing credit facility with Aegean Baltic Bank, which was collateralized by mortgages and other security relating to the APL Belgium, the APL Scotland and the Hyundai Commodore. Tranche B of the Aegean Baltic-HSH Nordbank credit facility is for a maximum amount of $500.0 million. Tranche B is to be used to provide financing for future vessel acquisitions, or other ship financing or corporate activities. The interest rate on the Aegean Baltic-HSH Nordbank credit facility is 0.75% over LIBOR. The revolving period commenced on November 14, 2006 and will have a duration of five years. The loan is repayable in up to 20 consecutive quarterly installments beginning in 2011 and a balloon payment, if applicable, together with the last payment due in 2016. As of May 15, 2007, $275.0 million was outstanding under the Aegean Baltic-HSH Nordbank credit facility and $425.0 million of undrawn availability remained available under Tranche B to us for future borrowings. Royal Bank of Scotland Credit Facility On February 20, 2007, we, as borrower, and certain of our vessel-owning subsidiaries, as guarantors, entered into a $700.0 million senior revolving credit facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland, which we refer to as the RBS credit facility. The RBS credit facility is divided into two revolving credit tranches, Tranche A and Tranche B. Tranche A of the credit facility is made available in four advances. Advance 1 of Tranche A is in an amount of up to $38.0 million and collateralized by the MOL Confidence. Advance 2 is in an amount of up to $22.0 million and collateralized by mortgages and other security relating to the S.A. Sederberg, the S.A. Winterberg, the S.A. Helderberg and the Maersk Constantia. Advance 3 is in an amount of up to $46.0 million and collateralized by mortgages and other security relating to the YM Yantian and the Norasia Hamburg. Advance 4 is in an amount of up to $32.0 million and collateralized by mortgages and other security relating to the Victory I and the YM Milano. We used the borrowings under Tranche A for working capital and to refinance outstanding indebtedness under our existing credit facility with RBS, which was collateralized by mortgages and other security relating to the S.A. Sederberg, the S.A. Winterberg, the S.A. Helderberg and the Maersk Constantia, as well as the APL Holland, the Fivos, the Alexandra I, the Dimitris C, the Roberto C, the Maria C, and the MV Achilleas, which we have sold. Tranche B of the RBS credit facility is for a maximum amount of $500.0 million. Tranche B may be used to provide financing for a portion of our contracted fleet, future vessel acquisitions or our other ship financing or corporate activities. The revolving period commenced on February 21, 2007 and will have a duration of five years. The interest rate on the RBS credit facility is 0.75% over LIBOR. As of May 15, 2007, $150.0 million was outstanding under the RBS credit facility and $550.0 million of undrawn availability remained available ($50 million available under Tranche A and $500 million available under Tranche B) to us for future borrowings. Sixty-six months after the first drawdown, the available credit limit under Advance 1 of Tranche A will be reduced by two semi-annual reductions of $16.7 million, and a balloon reduction of $4.6 million together with the last reduction. Six months after the first drawdown, the available credit limit under Advance 2 of Tranche A will be reduced by four semi-annual reductions of $0.75 million, and a balloon reduction of $19.0 million together with the last reduction. Eighteen months after the first drawdown, the available credit limit under Advance 3 of Tranche A will be reduced by four semi-annual reductions of $9.5 million, and a balloon reduction of $8.0 million together with the last reduction. Six months after the first drawdown, the available credit limit under Advance 4 of Tranche A will be reduced by four semi-annual reductions of $6.5 million, and a balloon reduction of $6.0 million together with the last reduction. Each advance made under Tranche B for the financing of a newbuilding will have a term of 10 years from the first drawdown, and there will be no reductions in 89 the available credit limit under each advance until five years after the first drawdown under Tranche A. Six months after this five-year period ends, the available credit limit under each advance will likewise be reduced by equal semi-annual reductions, together with a balloon reduction equal to the balloon reduction that will be payable as though Tranche B were a 10-year loan repayable on an 18-year straight-line basis. Advances under Tranche B for the purchase of secondhand vessels have similar repayment terms, with slightly shorter time periods for repayment, depending upon the age of the vessel. Seasonal Maritime Corporation Credit Facilities We borrowed an aggregate amount of $75.0 million ($15.0 million with respect to each vessel) under an unsecured loan agreement, dated August 14, 2006, with Seasonal Maritime Corporation to partially finance the acquisition of the five 6,500 TEU newbuildings we ordered on July 26, 2006. This loan bore interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.0% per annum and matured six months after execution of the loan agreement, with an option for an additional six months repayment term for the borrower. In addition, a flat fee of $112,500 was paid upon execution of the loan agreement and a commitment fee of 0.30% per annum was payable quarterly on any undrawn amount, commencing August 14, 2006. We borrowed an additional aggregate amount of $25.0 million under an unsecured loan agreement, dated September 25, 2006, with Seasonal Maritime Corporation, to finance installment payments on the HN 1670, the HN 1671, the HN 1672 and the HN 1673, made on September 28, 2006. This loan bore interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.0% per annum and matured six months after execution of the loan agreement, with an option for an additional six months repayment term for the borrower. In addition, a flat fee of $37,500 was paid upon execution of the loan agreement and a commitment fee of 0.30% per annum was payable quarterly on any undrawn amount, commencing September 25, 2006. We believe the fees and interest payable under these loan agreements were no less favorable than those we could obtain in arm’s-length negotiations with an unrelated third party. We repaid the entire amount outstanding under these loans on December 28, 2006, with borrowings made under our RBS and Aegean Baltic-HSH Nordbank credit facilities. (e) Secondary Put and Call Agreements. We entered into secondary put and call agreements with Allco Finance (UK) Limited with respect to the Maersk Derby (ex P&O Nedlloyd Caracas), Vancouver Express (ex P&O Nedlloyd Caribbean), CSCL America, CSCL Europe, CSCL Pusan (ex HN 1559) and CSCL Le Havre (ex HN 1561) on February 18, 2004, February 18, 2004, March 11, 2004, March 11, 2004, November 30, 2004 and November 30, 2004, respectively. For a description of our secondary put and call agreements, please see “Item 