ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should read the section entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements” above for a discussion of what types of statements are forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this report. 16 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting that require us to restate our financial statements. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and effected by our board of directors to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with the authorization of our board of directors and management; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation under the criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2010 because of the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting described below. A material weakness (within the meaning of PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 5) is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Management believes that, as of December 31, 2010, our corporate accounting lacked the expertise in nonrecurring transactions to effectively recognize deferred tax liabilities and derivative instrument valuation review controls, which resulted in an inadvertent omission of the fair value of embedded options in warrants and a misinterpretation of US GAAP regarding the recognition of deferred tax liabilities upon a business combination. We have taken measures to remediate these material weaknesses by adding two additional qualified accountants in late 2010, and we have engaged outside consultants specializing in deferred tax accounting and derivative instrument valuation. We have also implemented more formal review procedures and documentation standards for the accounting and monitoring of non-routine and complex transactions and will continue to evaluate other measures to enhance the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We face risks related to general domestic and global economic conditions and to the credit crisis. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets related to the current national and worldwide financial crisis, which may continue indefinitely or intensify, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers, suppliers and creditors. We currently generate sufficient operating cash flows, which combined with access to the credit markets, provide us with significant discretionary funding capacity. However, the current uncertainty arising out of domestic and global economic conditions, including the disruption in credit markets, may impact our ability to manage normal relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. The disruptions in the capital and credit markets may continue indefinitely or intensify, and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers, suppliers and creditors. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed to conduct or expand our businesses or conduct acquisitions or make other discretionary investments. Such disruptions may also adversely impact the capital needs of our customers and suppliers, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, the demand for our products is largely affected by the general economic conditions in China as our products are still not affordable to many patients. As China's economy grows, we expect more Chinese people will become consumers of medical treatments and procedures, including procedures requiring human plasma. However, we expect that continuation of the global economic slowdown may result in slower economic growth in China and an unfavorable economic environment which in turn may make our products less affordable to more patients and result in an overall decreased demand for our products. Such reductions and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. In order to grow at the pace expected by management, we will require additional capital to support our long-term business plan. If we are unable to obtain additional capital in future years, we may be unable to proceed with our long-term business plan and we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations or further business expansion. We will require additional working capital to support our long-term business plan, which includes identifying suitable targets for horizontal or vertical mergers or acquisitions, so as to enhance the overall productivity and benefit from economies of scale. Our working capital requirements and the cash flow provided by future operating activities, if any, will vary greatly from quarter to quarter, depending on the volume of business during the period and payment terms with our customers. We may not be able to obtain adequate levels of additional financing, whether through equity financing, debt financing or other sources, especially in light of the global financial crisis and the market downturn. To raise funds, we may need to issue new equities or bonds which could result in additional dilution to our shareholders and investors. Additional financings could result in significant dilution to our earnings per share or the issuance of securities with rights superior to our current outstanding securities or contain covenants that would restrict our operations and strategy. In addition, we may grant registration rights to investors purchasing our equity or debt securities in the future. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we may be unable to implement our long-term business plan, develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures on a timely basis. In addition, a lack of additional financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. Shandong Taibang as began its operation in October 2002. With the rapid growth of the industry, it has experienced a high growth rate since 2002. Furthermore, we did not acquire a controlling interest in Shandong Taibang until September 2005 and Guizhou Taibang until January 2009. As such, our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. We may not be able to achieve a similar growth rate in future periods. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. We have a significant amount of debt, which could have negative consequences to us. We have certain amount of debt. As of December 31, 2010, we had, on a consolidated basis, approximately $3.0 million principal amount of indebtedness outstanding. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and adverse changes in governmental regulations; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors. Our ability to pay interest on our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, our future operating performance and cash flow and our ability to refinance indebtedness when necessary. Each of these factors is, to a large extent, dependent on general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If in the future we cannot generate sufficient cash from operations to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness or to meet our liquidity needs or other obligations, we will need to refinance our existing debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renegotiate or refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, our interest expense may increase if general economic conditions result in an increasing interest rate environment. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow, or that we will be able to obtain funding sufficient to satisfy our debt service requirements. 17 Our cash flow could be negatively affected as a result of our extension of relatively long payment terms to customers that we believe are credit worthy. As is customary in our industry, we extend relatively long payment terms (up to six months) to customers that we believe are credit worthy. The dollar amount of our accounts receivable, net of our allowance for doubtful accounts as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $9,922,111, $1,767,076 and $313,087, respectively. The bad debt (credit) expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $(57,623), $(13,089) and $(56,462), respectively. Although we attempt to establish appropriate reserves for our receivables, those reserves may not prove to be adequate in view of actual levels of bad debts. The failure of our customers to pay us timely would negatively affect our working capital, which could in turn adversely affect our cash flow. If the PRC government bans or limits plasma-based biopharmaceutical products, our operations, revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. The principal raw materials of our existing and planned biopharmaceutical products is human source plasma, which, due to its unique nature, is subject to various quality and safety control issues which include, but are not limited to, contaminations and blood-borne diseases. In addition, limitations of current technology pose biological hazards inherent in plasma that have yet to be discovered which could result in a wide spread epidemic due to blood infusion. The primary law that regulates plasma products in China is the PRC Pharmaceutical Law, the Implementation Rules on the PRC Pharmaceutical Law and the Regulations on the Administration of Blood Products. These rules and regulations require entities producing blood products to strictly comply with certain hygienic standards and specifications promulgated by the government. In the event that human plasma is discovered to be noncompliant with the government's hygienic standards and specifications, the health department may revoke the registration and/or the approval of the blood product, or otherwise limit the use of such blood product. If the PRC government bans or limits plasma-based biopharmaceutical products, our operations, revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. If the plasma we source is found to be contaminated, our operation, revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. We currently source plasma mainly from human donations to our plasma stations in Shandong, Guangxi and Guizhou Provinces. If any of our human donors is infected with certain diseases, then the plasma from such donor may be infected. If such contaminated plasma is not appropriately screened out, our entire plasma source for the relevant collection station may become contaminated. If the plasma from our collection stations is found to be contaminated, our operation, revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. If our supply of quality plasma is interrupted, our results of operations and profitability will be adversely affected. The production of plasma-based biopharmaceutical products relies on the supply of plasma of suitable quality. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the cost of plasma used by us for production accounted for approximately 73%, 83% and 76%, respectively, of total production cost. The supply and market prices of plasma may be adversely affected by factors such as regulatory restrictions, weather conditions or outbreak of diseases which would impact our costs of production. We may not be able to pass on any resulting increase in costs to our customers and therefore any substantial fluctuation in supply or market prices of plasma may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. The biopharmaceutical industry in the PRC is strictly regulated and changes in such regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. The biopharmaceutical industry in the PRC is strictly regulated by the government. The regulatory regime, such as administrative approval of medicines and production approvals, comprises of series of regulations and administrative rules. The PRC regulatory authorities may amend such regulations and administrative rules and promulgate new regulations and administrative rules from time to time. Changes in these regulations and administrative rules could have a significant impact on our business. Such changes may have any adverse impact on our business. 18 We may not be able to carry on our business if we lose any of the permits and licenses required by the PRC Government in order to carry on our business. All pharmaceutical manufacturing and distribution enterprises in the PRC are required to obtain from various PRC governmental authorities certain permits and licenses, including, in the case of manufacturing enterprises, a Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Permit and, in the case of distribution enterprises, a Pharmaceutical Distribution Permit. We have obtained permits and licenses and the GMP certificates, required for the manufacturing and sales of our pharmaceutical products. These permits and licenses held by us are subject to periodic renewal and/or reassessment by the relevant PRC Government authorities and the standards of compliance required in relation thereto may from time to time be subject to changes. We intend to apply for the renewal of such permits and licenses when required by applicable laws and regulations. Any changes in compliance standards, or any new laws or regulations that may prohibit or render it more restrictive for us to conduct our business or increase our compliance costs may adversely affect our operations or profitability. Any failure by us to obtain such renewals may have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business. In addition, we may not be able to carry on business without such permits and business licenses being renewed. If we do not receive PRC governmental approval to increase the retail prices of certain of our biopharmaceutical products our revenues may be adversely affected. Retail prices of certain of our biopharmaceutical products in the PRC are subject to the control of the relevant central and provincial price administration authorities. The actual price for any given price-controlled product set by manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers cannot exceed the price ceiling imposed in accordance with the applicable government price control rules. Pharmaceutical products which are included in China’s National (Medical) Insurance Catalogue, or the NIC, administered at the central or provincial level are subject to price control by the National Reform and Development Commission of China, or the NDRC, China’s pricing authority. The 2009 NIC was published by China's Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security in November, 2009 as part of China's healthcare reform, to make more drugs affordable to PRC consumers. The NIC is China’s official drug reimbursement list for its universal healthcare system, which the PRC government expected to cover 90% of PRC citizens as at the 2010 year end. The 2009 NIC features 2,151 drugs, categorized as Class A (fully covered) or Class B (partially covered). Five of our principal products, Human Albumin Human Immunoglobulin for intravenous injection, Human Rabies Immunoglobulin, Human Tetanus Immunoglobulin, Human Immunoglobulin have been included in the 2009 NIC as Class B drugs and are subject to national price control by the NDRC. The 2009 NIC was expected to be fully implemented in 2010, but has been postponed. Once the 2009 NIC is fully implemented, the price of our included products may not be increased at our discretion above the relevant controlled retail price ceiling without prior governmental approval. This, in turn, may affect the ex-factory prices set by us for our products and we therefore do not have unfettered freedom to maximize our profits. It is uncertain whether we will be able to obtain necessary approvals to increase the price of any of our products. If we are unable to adequately monitor our plasma stations our plasma supply may be tainted and we will be subject to sanctions by the government which would have a material adverse effect on our business. As part of the industry reform initiative by the Chinese government, in 2006 we acquired the assets of five of the six then existing plasma stations in Shandong Province through our wholly owned subsidiaries, Xia Jin Plasma Company, the Qi He Plasma Company, the He Ze Plasma Company, the Zhang Qiu Plasma Company and the Liao Cheng Plasma Company. We received permits to operate these subsidiaries in January 2007. In April 2007, we acquired the assets of two additional plasma stations, one through Huan Jiang Plasma Company and the other through Fang Cheng Plasma Company, which is then 80% owned by Shandong Taibang and 20% owned by Feng Lin, an unrelated third party, which we subsequently acquired in January 2010. We obtained necessary permits and commenced their operation in July and August 2007, respectively. In 2010, we established two plasma stations, Yi Shui Plasma Company, which has begun operation in December 2010, and Ning Yang Plasma Company, which is still under construction. Guizhou Taibang, the main operating subsidiary of Dalin, is the 85% owner of the seven plasma stations in Guizhou province. Huitian, the 35% minority owned affiliated company by the Company, has three plasma stations operating in Shaanxi province. While we monitor our blood plasma intake procedures through frequent unscheduled inspections of our stations, there remains a risk that our blood supply may become tainted during the collection process. Our blood supply may become tainted if we accept blood from donors whose blood shows any irregular findings including HIV, Hepatitis C and liver disease. We pre-screen all donors in order to ensure that these diseases are not present. If our blood supply becomes tainted, the consequences for our business could be severe. We could be subject to civil liability from suits brought by consumers and to criminal liability and loss of our registration if we are found by the government to have been criminally negligent. Our operations, sales, profit and cash flow will be adversely affected if our albumin products fail inspection or are delayed by regulators. Each batch of our albumin products requires inspection by Chinese government regulators before we can ship it to our customers. The SFDA has a quality standard which considers, among other things, the appearance, packing capacity, thermal stability, pH value, protein content and percentage of purity of the product. In order to pass inspection, our plasma must test negative for any blood irregularities, including Hepatitis C, HIV and liver disease. The plasma must be packaged in 25 to 30 separate 600g bags and boxed with a packing list and labeled to be consistent with computer records. The plasma must then be stored at -20°C as soon as possible after collection to ensure that it will congeal within 6 hours. Government regulators usually take one month to inspect a batch of albumin products. The process begins when the regulator randomly selects samples of our albumin products and delivers them to the National Institute for the Control of Pharmaceutical and Biological Products, or the NICBPB, in Beijing for testing, and the process ends when the products are given final approval by the NICBPB. In the event that the regulators delay the approval of our products, change the requirements in such a way that we are unable to comply with those requirements, or require our other products to be inspected by regulators before we can ship them to our customers, our operations, sales, profit and cash flow will be adversely affected. 19 We rely on a Secondment Agreement with the Shandong Institute, which is expected to terminate upon the future privatization of the Shandong Institute, for over 39% of our Shandong Taibang employees. If the Secondment Agreement is breached or terminated, it could have an adverse effect on our operations and on our financial results. The Shandong Institute has provided us with approximately 104 of our employees out of a total of approximately 1,446 employees, pursuant to a secondment agreement, or Secondment Agreement, dated October 28, 2002, between Shandong Taibang and the Shandong Institute. Pursuant to the Secondment Agreement, we are responsible for the salaries of these employees, as well as for their social benefits such as insurance. Our Secondment Agreement with the Shandong Institute will expire on the sooner to occur of October 2032 or upon the privatization of the Shandong Institute, which was originally expected to occur before the end of 2008. However, the completion of privatization of Shandong Institute has been further delayed indefinitely due to slower action taken by the Shandong Ministry of Health in implementing the privatization plan. Upon expiration or termination of the Secondment Agreement, we plan to hire the seconded employees directly. However, we cannot be sure that all of the employees will accept our employment offers at that time. Guang Li Pang, Shandong Taibang’s Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Yun Hua Gao and Dian Cong Liu, our Senior Technical Advisors are employed through the Secondment Agreement. Although none of our seconded employees have indicated that they do not plan to continue working for our Company after the privatization, if the Secondment Agreement is terminated or expires and we are unable to hire those employees or replacement employees on time, our operations, as well as our financial results, may suffer. If the distributors who we rely on do not purchase our products, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We sell almost a half of our products in China through our network of about 279 distributors located in about 30 provinces and municipal cities throughout China. While we have established working relationships with many of our distributors and strictly regulate their sales and marketing activities by annual distribution agreements, there are no restrictions in these distribution agreements preventing our distributors from also supplying products produced by our competitors. Our own marketing and sales staff work to develop and maintain relationships with our distributors, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such relationships. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, direct sales to distributors represented approximately 48.9%, 67.3% and 65.6%, respectively, of our total revenues. If a number of our distributors cease to purchase our products and we are unable to find suitable replacements, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our inability to successfully research and develop new biological pharmaceutical products could have an adverse effect on our future growth. We believe that the successful development of biological pharmaceutical products can be affected by many factors. Products that appear to be promising in the early phases of research and development may fail to be commercialized for various reasons, including the failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. In addition, the research and development cycles for new medicine for which we must obtain a Certificate of New Medicine from the PRC Ministry of Health, is a relatively lengthy process. In our experience, the process of conducting research and various tests on new products before obtaining a Certificate of New Medicine and subsequent procedures may take approximately three to five years. There is no assurance that our future research and development projects will be successful or that they will be completed within the anticipated time frame or budget. Also, there is no guarantee that we will receive the necessary approvals from relevant authorities for the production of our newly developed products. Even if such products could be successfully commercialized, there is no assurance that they will be accepted by the market as anticipated. Our financial position and operations may be materially and adversely affected if our product liability insurance does not sufficiently cover our liabilities. Under current PRC laws, manufacturers and vendors of defective products in the PRC may incur liability for loss and injury caused by such products. Pursuant to the General Principles of the Civil Law of the PRC, or the PRC Civil Law, which became effective in 1987, a defective product which causes property damage or physical injury to any person may subject the manufacturer or vendor of such product to civil liability. In 1993, the PRC promulgated the Product Quality Law of the PRC, or the Product Quality Law, which was revised in 2000. The Product Quality Law was enacted to protect the rights and interests of end-users and consumers and to strengthen the supervision and control of the quality of products. Under the Product Quality Law, manufacturers who produce defective products may be subject to fines and required to cease production, and in severe cases, be subject to criminal liability and may have their business licenses revoked. In 1993, the Law of the PRC on the Protection of the Rights and Interests of Consumers, or the Consumers' Rights Law, was promulgated to further protect the legal rights and interests of consumers in connection with the purchase or use of goods and services. All businesses, including our business, must observe and comply with the Consumers' Rights Law. 20 We maintain two product liability insurances for sales in the PRC for Shandong Taibang and Guizhou Taibang’s products in the amount of approximately $3.0 million (RMB 20 million) each. Although no one has filed any claims in relation to the use of our pharmaceutical products, our financial position and operations may be materially and adversely affected, if our insurance coverage is insufficient to cover a successful claim. We may encounter increased competition from both local and overseas pharmaceutical enterprises as a result of a relaxation of the PRC regulatory approval process for plasma-based biopharmaceutical products or a relaxation of international trade restrictions. A change in our competitive environment could adversely affect our profitability and prospects. Our continued ability to compete depends on the development of the plasma-based biopharmaceutical manufacturing industry in China. The plasma-based biopharmaceutical manufacturing industry in China is highly regulated by both provincial and central governments. Prior to engaging in the collection and production of plasma products, companies such as ours are required to obtain collection permits from the central health department and production permits and certificates for each new product formulation from the various provincial food and drug authorities. We have the advantage of being already approved by the state to collect plasma from human donors and manufacture and sell plasma-based biopharmaceutical products in Shandong Province, as well as in all other provinces in China, and our research and development department has become familiar with the provincial product approval process. However, although we believe that the regulatory requirements pose a competitive barrier to entry into the biopharmaceutical industry, over time there may be new entrants. If the government relaxes these restrictions and allow more competitors to enter into the market, these competitors may have more capital, better research and development resources, manufacturing and marketing capability and experience than us. Our profitability may be adversely affected if (i) competition intensifies; (ii) competitors drastically reduce prices; or (iii) competitors develop new products having comparable medicinal applications or therapeutic effects which are more effective or less costly than those produced by us. In addition we expect that competition from imported products will increase as a result of a trend towards lower import tariffs and China's admission as a member of the WTO in December 2001. We believe that lower import tariffs will result in more affordable pricing for imported biopharmaceutical products manufactured overseas as compared to domestically manufactured products such as ours. In addition, China's membership in the WTO makes it more accessible to foreign biopharmaceutical manufacturers who may wish to set up production facilities in the PRC and compete directly with domestic manufacturers. The expected increased supply of both domestic and foreign competitively priced biopharmaceutical products in the PRC will result in increased competition. There is no assurance that our strategies to remain competitive can be implemented successfully as scheduled or at all. Our inability to remain competitive may have an adverse effect on our profitability and prospects. We depend heavily on key personnel, and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our success, to a certain extent, is attributable to the expertise and experience of our senior management and key research and technical personnel, including Chao-Ming Zhao, our Chief Executive Officer, Y. Tristan Kuo, our President, Stanley Lau, our Chief Financial Officerand Yiwu Xie, the Chief Technical Officer of the Company, who carry out key functions in our operation. If we lose the service of any of our senior management or key research or technical personnel or fail to attract additional personnel with suitable experience and qualification, our business operations and research capability may be adversely affected. Our senior management and employees have worked together for a short period of time, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate their effectiveness and ability to address challenges. Due to our limited operating history and recent additions to our management team, certain of our senior management and employees have worked together at our company for only a relatively short period of time. Specifically, Chao Ming Zhao became our Chief Executive Officer in June 2008 after serving as our Chief Financial Officer since November 2006 and Y. Tristan Kuo became our Chief Financial Officer in June 2008 and had served as our Vice President-Finance since September 2007. Stanley Lau became our President in December 2010. Siu Ling Chan became our directors in July 2006. While Mr. Zhao and Ms. Chen were employed in various capacities by Logic Express and Shandong Taibang, Mr. Lau is a relative newcomer to our Company. As a result of these circumstances, it may be difficult for you to evaluate the effectiveness of our senior management and other key employees and their ability to address future challenges to our business. Future acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Selective acquisitions form part of our strategy to further expand our business. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire additional companies, products or technologies. Future acquisitions and the subsequent integration of new companies into ours would require significant attention from our management. Our company has little experience with integrating newly acquired businesses. Potential problems encountered by each organization during mergers and acquisitions would be unique, posing additional risks to the company. The diversion of our management's attention and any difficulties encountered in any integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Future acquisitions would expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the assimilation of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions, and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees, customers and suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. 21 We may lose our competitive advantage and our operations may suffer if we fail to prevent the loss or misappropriation of, or disputes over, our intellectual property. None of our products are currently covered by patents. The trademark “Lu Yue” is licensed to us by the Shandong Institute for our use as in the labeling of human-use medicine, biopreparate and blood products, pursuant to a trademark license agreement, dated February 27, 2007. We plan to apply for patents for our manufacturing processes. The patent application will be subject to approval from the relevant PRC authorities. We may not be able to successfully obtain the approval of the PRC authorities for our patent applications. Furthermore, third parties may assert claims to our proprietary procedures, technologies and systems. These proprietary procedures, technologies and systems are important to our business as they allow us to maintain our competitive edge over our competitors. While we are not aware of any infringement on our intellectual property and we have not been notified by any third party that we are infringing on their intellectual property, our ability to compete successfully and to achieve future revenue growth will depend, in significant part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. The legal regime in China for the protection of intellectual property rights is still at its early stage of development. Intellectual property protection became a national effort in China in 1979 when China adopted its first statute on the protection of trademarks. Since then, China has adopted its Patent Law, Trademark Law and Copyright Law and promulgated related regulations such as Regulation on Computer Software Protection, Regulation on the Protection of Layout Designs of Integrated Circuits and Regulation on Internet Domain Names. China has also acceded to various international treaties and conventions in this area, such as the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, Patent Cooperation Treaty, Madrid Agreement and its Protocol Concerning the International Registration of Marks. In addition, when China became a party to the World Trade Organization in 2001, China amended many of its laws and regulations to comply with the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. Despite many laws and regulations promulgated and other efforts made by China over the years with a view to tightening up its regulation and protection of intellectual property rights, private parties may not enjoy intellectual property rights in China to the same extent as they would in many Western countries, including the United States, and enforcement of such laws and regulations in China have not achieved the levels reached in those countries. Both the administrative agencies and the court system in China are not well-equipped to deal with violations or handle the nuances and complexities between compliant technological innovation and noncompliant infringement. We rely on confidentiality agreements with our management and employees to protect our confidential proprietary information. However, the protection of our intellectual properties may be compromised as a result of: departure of any of our management members or employees in possession of our confidential proprietary information; breach by such departing management member or employee of his or her confidentiality and non- disclosure undertaking to us; infringement by others of our proprietary information and intellectual property rights; or refusal by relevant regulatory authorities to approve our patent or trademark applications. Any of these events or occurrences may have a material adverse effect on our operations and the measures that we have put into place to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient. Litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs and may not be successful. If we are not able to successfully defend our intellectual property rights, we might lose rights to technology that we need to conduct and develop our business. This may seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition, and enable our competitors to use our intellectual property to compete against us. Furthermore, if third parties claim that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, we may be required to devote substantial resources to defend against such claims. If we are unsuccessful in defending against such infringement claims, we may be required to pay damages, modify our products or suspend the production and sale of such products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to modify our products on commercially reasonable terms. A disruption in the supply of utilities, fire or other calamity at our manufacturing plant would disrupt production of our products and adversely affect our sales. Our products are manufactured at our production facilities located in Tai’an, Shandong Province and Guiyang, Guizhou Province in the PRC. While we have not in the past experienced any calamities which disrupted production, any disruption in the supply of utilities, in particular, electricity or power supply, or any outbreak of fire, flood or other calamity resulting in significant damage at our facilities would severely affect our production and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain insurance policies covering losses with respect to damages to our properties and products. We do not have insurance coverage for inventories of raw materials or business interruption. There is no assurance that our insurance would be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. 22 There are allegations of past criminal conduct against certain members of our Board of Directors and a significant employee. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if any of these allegations are proven true. On January 26, 2010, certain allegations of fraud and criminal activity involving smuggling and related activities allegedly engaged in prior to 2005 by the CEO of the Company's primary operating subsidiary, Shandong Taibang, and by a relative of one of our directors surfaced on certain financial websites. On January 27, 2010, in response to these allegations, the Company's board of directors established a special independent subcommittee comprised of the Company's independent directors, Mr. Sean Shao and Dr. Tong Jun Lin (who were later joined by new director Dr. Xiangmin Cui), or the Special Committee, to investigate the allegations with the assistance of a reputable international firm, and report its findings to the board of directors as soon as practicable. On March 1, 2010, the Special Committee retained O'Melveny & Myers LLP, an international law firm, to advise the Special Committee and to assist in the investigation of the allegations. On November 26, 2010, the Special Committee reported its findings to the Company’s board of directors, a summary of which the Company disclosed in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on December 3, 2010. The Special Committee could not find support for a majority of the allegations, however, the Special Committee found support that Mr. Ze Qin Lin, the husband of our former director Ms. Lin Ling Li, was imprisoned in China in connection with smuggling offenses, and with respect to the allegation that Mr. Tung Lam, the Chief Executive Officer of one of our primary operating subsidiaries, Shandong Taibang, and spouse of Mrs. Siu Ling Chan, our board chair, was previously known as Mr. Lin Ziping and was imprisoned for smuggling offenses in China, the Special Committee found evidence supporting Mr. Lam's denial of the allegation, as well as conflicting evidence with respect to this claim. As a result, the Special Committee concluded that it could neither confirm nor exclude the allegation against Mr. Lam. The findings of the Special Committee regarding Mr. Lin and its inability to reach a conclusion regarding the allegations against Mr. Lam may make investing in our Company unattractive to certain investors and may cause existing investors to end their investment in the Company, which may cause our stock price to decline. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Changes in China's political or economic situation could harm us and our operating results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: Level of government involvement in the economy; Control of foreign exchange; Methods of allocating resources; Balance of payments position; International trade restrictions; and International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. For example, state-owned enterprises still constitute a large portion of the Chinese economy, and weak corporate governance and the lack of a flexible currency exchange policy still prevail in China. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy was similar to those of the OECD member countries. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in the PRC. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to FIEs. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to evolve rapidly, the interpretations of many laws, regulations, and rules are not always uniform, and enforcement of these laws, regulations, and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, most of our executive officers and directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese operations and subsidiary. 23 You may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us. Most of our assets are located outside of the United States and most of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Our counsel as to PRC law has advised us that the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law. Courts in China may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security, or the public interest. So it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property, and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 5.9% and as low as -0.8%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products and our company. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales effectively. The majority of our sales will be settled in RMB, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that FIEs may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars, as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. 24 Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, some of our raw materials and major equipment are imported. In the event that the U.S. dollars appreciate against RMB, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increases on to our customers, our profitability and operating results will suffer. In addition, if our sales to international customers grow, we will be increasingly subject to the risk of foreign currency depreciation. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Substantially all of our sales are earned by our PRC subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to their offshore parent companies. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of their annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of their registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances, or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75 by (1) purporting to cover the establishment or acquisition of control by PRC residents of offshore entities which merely acquire “control” over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; (2) adding requirements relating to the source of the PRC resident's funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; (3) covering the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; (4) purporting to cover situations in which an offshore SPV establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; and (5) making the domestic affiliate of the SPV responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 75 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations, and Notice 106 makes the offshore SPV jointly responsible for these filings. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006. This date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the SPV and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV’s affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. We have asked our stockholders who are PRC residents as defined in Circular 75 to register with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. However, we cannot provide any assurances that they can obtain the above SAFE registrations required by Circular 75 and Notice 106. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 and Notice 106 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. 25 In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75 and Notice 106. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with Circular 75 and Notice 106, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations which became effective on September 8, 2006. On August 9, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006. This new regulation, among other things, governs the approval process by which a PRC company may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests. Depending on the structure of the transaction, the new regulation will require the PRC parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to the new regulation, our ability to engage in business combination transactions has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our stockholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction. The new regulation allows PRC government agencies to assess the economic terms of a business combination transaction. Parties to a business combination transaction may have to submit to the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, and other relevant government agencies an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The regulations also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the PRC business or assets and in certain transaction structures, require that consideration must be paid within defined periods, generally not in excess of a year. The regulation also limits our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Therefore, such regulation may impede our ability to negotiate and complete a business combination transaction on financial terms that satisfy our investors and protect our stockholders’ economic interests. Under the New Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC stockholders. The EIT Law and its implementing rules became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the EIT Law and its implementation non-Chinese enterprise or group controlled offshore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an offshore jurisdiction and controlled by a Chinese enterprise or group will be classified as a “non-domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if (i) its senior management in charge of daily operations reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (ii) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (iii) its substantial assets and properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (iv) at least half of its directors with voting rights or senior management often resident in China. A resident enterprise would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and must pay a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when paying dividends to its non-PRC shareholders. However, it remains unclear as to whether the Notice is applicable to an offshore enterprise incorporated by a Chinese natural person. Nor are detailed measures on imposition of tax from non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. 26 We may be deemed to be a resident enterprise by Chinese tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the 2011 tax year and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. We face uncertainty from China’s Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-Resident Enterprises' Share Transfer that was released in December 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008. The Chinese State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, released a circular on December 15, 2009 that addresses the transfer of shares by nonresident companies, generally referred to as Circular 698. Circular 698, which is effective retroactively to January 1, 2008, may have a significant impact on many companies that use offshore holding companies to invest in China. Circular 698, which provides parties with a short period of time to comply with its requirements, indirectly taxes foreign companies on gains derived from the indirect sale of a Chinese company. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of his, her, or its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfers. Moreover, where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise through an abuse of form of organization and there are no reasonable commercial purposes such that the corporate income tax liability is avoided, the PRC tax authority will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer in accordance with PRC’s “substance-over-form” principle and deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes. There is uncertainty as to the application of Circular 698. For example, while the term “indirectly transfer” is not defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax in the country or jurisdiction and to what extent and the process of the disclosure to the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise. In addition, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to decide “abuse of form of organization” and “reasonable commercial purpose,” which can be utilized by us to balance if our Company complies with the Circular 698. As a result, we may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Chinese anti-corruption laws, and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties, and make most of our sales in China. The PRC also strictly prohibits bribery of government officials. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by the employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors of our Company, even though they may not always be subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA or Chinese anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. If we become directly subject to the recent scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and resolve the matter which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation and could result in a loss of your investment in our stock, especially if such matter cannot be addressed and resolved favorably. Recently, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China, particularly companies like us which have completed so-called reverse merger transactions, have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the SEC. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed Chinese companies has sharply decreased in value and, in some cases, has become virtually worthless. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits, SEC enforcement actions and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. It is not clear what effect this sector-wide scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on our company, our business and our stock price. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or untrue, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our company. This situation will be costly and time consuming and distract our management from growing our company. If such allegations are not proven to be groundless, our company and business operations will be severely and your investment in our stock could be rendered worthless. 27 RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market and this low trading volume may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our common stock started trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “CBPO” on December 7, 2009. The trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market. Reported average daily trading volume in our common stock for the three months immediately prior to March 1, 2011, was approximately 0.1 million shares. Limited trading volume will subject our shares of common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to you. The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when you want to sell your holdings. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. These factors include: our earnings releases, actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; significant developments relating to our relationships with our customers or suppliers; stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the our industry; customer demand for our products; investor perceptions of the our industry in general and our company in particular; the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; general economic conditions and trends; major catastrophic events; announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; loss of external funding sources; sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; and additions or departures of key personnel. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. For example, in July 2008, the securities markets in the United States, China and other jurisdictions experienced the largest decline in share prices since September 2001. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore depress the trading price of the common stock. Delaware corporate law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or changes in its management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: deny holders of our common stock cumulative voting rights in the election of directors, meaning that stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock will be able to elect all of our directors; and allow any vacancy on the board of directors, however the vacancy occurs, to be filled by the directors. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally limits our ability to engage in any business combination with certain persons who own 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or any of our associates or affiliates who at any time in the past three years have owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. 28 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We have no outstanding or unresolved comments from the SEC staff. 