Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, and all of the other information contained in this Form 10-K in assessing the risks relating to ownership of our common stock. The risks described below could cause our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects to materially suffer and the market price of our stock to decline. Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future performance. We are a development stage company that is the successor by merger to a company that began operations in 2002. As such, we have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our current business and our prospects. The likelihood of our future success must be viewed in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, delays and complications often encountered in the operation of a new business, especially in the pharmaceutical industry, where failures of new companies are common. We are subject to the risks inherent in the ownership and operation of a development stage company, including regulatory setbacks and delays, fluctuations in expenses, competition and government regulation. If we fail to address these risks and uncertainties our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects would be adversely affected. We have no products currently available and we have never had any products available for commercial sale. We have had no revenues from operations to date, currently have no products available for commercial sale, and have never had any products available for commercial sale. We expect to incur losses at least until we can commercialize CPP-109. Our net loss was $2,729,454 for the year ended December 31, 2006, and as of December 31, 2006 we had a deficit accumulated during the development stage of $5,759,214. We may not obtain approval of an NDA for CPP-109 and may never achieve profitability. Our business will require additional capital. Our business goals include developing CPP-109 for use in treating various addictions, including cocaine addiction and methamphetamine addiction. While we expect that the proceeds from our recently completed initial public offering and July 2006 private placement should allow us to complete all of the clinical and pre-clinical trials required to seek approval of an NDA for CPP-109 to treat cocaine addiction, our expectation, which is based on information available to us at the date of this report, may not be correct. For example, most of the expenses for completing the development of CPP-109 to treat cocaine addiction will be in the form of fees and expenses, and we will be required to pay a contract research organization to conduct this work for us. We have not yet selected or contracted with any third party for this purpose, and our estimate of the fees and expenses we will have to pay is based on the experiences of our management team, Board members and scientific advisors in dealing with these types of organizations rather than firm quotes. The actual cost to us could be significantly greater than we expect. In addition, the FDA could require us to alter or delay our clinical trials at any stage, which may significantly increase the costs of our trials. Further, we intend to develop 21 Table of Contents clinical studies to seek commercialization of CPP-109 to treat methamphetamine addiction and to commercialize CPP-109 for sale in Europe. We do not presently have the funds needed to complete all the necessary studies to gain such U.S. and foreign approvals. Other than the U.S. Phase II cocaine and methamphetamine trials described herein, these other studies have not yet been developed, we do not know the ultimate costs of these studies, and we will need additional funding to pay such costs. Required funds may not be available, or even if they are available, they may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Further, to the extent that we raise such funds through collaborative arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some of the rights to our technologies or grant sublicenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are not able to raise required funds, our business and prospects would be adversely affected. There is currently little scientific evidence supporting the use of vigabatrin to treat addiction. There is currently little scientific evidence indicating that CPP-109 will be a safe and effective treatment for any addiction in humans. To date, two open-label pilot clinical studies have been completed in Mexico relating to the use of vigabatrin in the treatment of cocaine addiction and methamphetamine addiction. Only 26 persons in the aggregate completed these trials. Additionally, some of the study results described in this Form 10-K, such as evidence regarding beneficial weight gain, employment or other behavioral changes, have little scientific correlation to the safety or efficacy of CPP-109 as a treatment for addiction, and therefore are not reliable as evidence of safety or efficacy. Further, these studies were conducted in Mexico and were not subject to FDA oversight in any respect, including study design and protocol. For these reasons, there can be no assurance that the results of subsequent clinical trials in the United States will corroborate the results of these pilot studies. The results of these pilot studies are not necessarily predictive of results that will be obtained in later stages of clinical testing in the United States or ensure success in later stage clinical trials and neither study provided enough evidence regarding safety or efficacy to support an NDA filing with the FDA. Our product development efforts may fail. Development of our pharmaceutical product candidates is subject to risks of failure. For example: • CPP-109 may be found to be ineffective or unsafe, or fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • CPP-109, even if found to be safe and effective, could prove difficult or impossible to manufacture on a large scale or on a cost-effective basis; • CPP-109 may be uneconomical to market or take substantially longer to obtain necessary regulatory approvals than anticipated; or • competitors may market equivalent or superior products. As a result, our product development activities may not result in any safe, effective and commercially viable products, and we may not be able to commercialize our products successfully. Our failure to develop safe, effective, and commercially viable products would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Failure can occur at any stage of our product development efforts. We will only obtain regulatory approval to commercialize CPP-109 if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA (or the equivalent foreign regulatory authorities) in adequate and well-controlled clinical studies that the drug is safe and effective for its intended use and that it otherwise meets approval requirements. A failure of one or more pre-clinical or clinical studies can occur at any stage of product development. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, testing that could delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for or commercializing CPP-109, including but not limited to: • regulators or institutional review boards, which are commonly called IRBs, may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; 22 Table of Contents • conditions may be imposed upon us by the FDA regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials, or we may be required to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reinspection due to changes in the regulatory environment; • we may be unable to reach agreements on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations and/or principal investigators who will conduct our clinical trials; • the number of subjects required for our clinical trials may be larger than we anticipate, patient enrollment may take longer than we anticipate, or patients may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate; • we may have to suspend or terminate one or more of our clinical trials if we, regulators, or IRBs determine that the participants are being subjected to unreasonable health risks; • our third-party contractors or clinical investigators may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or fail to meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; • our tests may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional testing; and • the costs of our pre-clinical or clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate. We are dependent on a single chemical compound, vigabatrin. To date, we have invested, and will in the foreseeable future continue to invest, most or all of our time and resources to develop products using a single chemical compound, vigabatrin, for the treatment of addictions. Because all of our potential products are based on this chemical compound, if we cannot successfully develop and market products using it, and if we are not successful in commercializing such products, it would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Vigabatrin, the single chemical compound on which we depend, has known side effects that may hinder our ability to produce safe and commercially viable products. When used long-term as a treatment for epilepsy, a formulation of vigabatrin known as Sabril has been found to cause the development of peripheral visual field defects, known as VFDs, that increase progressively with continuing drug treatment. We intend to include a standardized evaluation of each patient’s visual fields before, during and after completion of our clinical studies and trials. We do not yet know whether our ultimate formulation for and dosing of vigabatrin will cause VFDs or how the potential for this known side effect will affect our ability to obtain marketing approval for CPP-109. In addition to VFDs, a wide variety of other adverse effects, including depression and other psychiatric reactions, have been noted in patients treated with Sabril. As patients with seizures often require treatment with multiple drugs, the relationship of such adverse effects to Sabril, including the VFDs described above, has not always been clear; however, such side effects tended to disappear when treatment with Sabril was stopped. These known side effects, as well as other side effects that may be discovered during our clinical trials, may cause the FDA or other governmental agencies to halt clinical trials prior to their completion, prevent the initiation of further clinical trials, or deny the approval of CPP-109 as a treatment for addiction. These known side effects may also cause the FDA to impose marketing restrictions on CPP-109. For example, the FDA may require specialized training for, or otherwise limit the ability of, physicians to prescribe CPP-109 and of pharmacists to fill prescriptions for CPP-109, may restrict our ability to advertise CPP-109, and may require us to keep a registry of patients who are prescribed CPP-109 to prevent such patients from using CPP-109 over an extended period of time. 23 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and if they do not perform their obligations to us we may not be able to obtain approval for CPP-109. We do not have the ability to conduct our clinical trials independently. We rely on academic institutions and other third-party research organizations to assist us in designing, managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out our clinical trials. Accordingly, we do not have control over the timing or other aspects of our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their duties, both our clinical trials and our business may be materially adversely affected. While we believe that there are numerous third parties that can assist us with our clinical trials, if the third parties with which we contract do not perform, our product development efforts would likely be delayed by any such change, and our efforts would likely be more expensive. Although we intend to rely on third parties to manage the data from these clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies will require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practice, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that the data and the results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these obligations and requirements, and we may fail to obtain regulatory approval for CPP-109 if these requirements are not met. If we are unable to file for approval for additional indications for CPP-109 through supplemental NDAs, or if we are required to generate additional data related to safety and efficacy in order to obtain such approval for additional indications, we may suffer material harm to our future financial performance. Our current plans for development of CPP-109 include efforts to minimize the data we will need to generate in order to obtain marketing approval of CPP-109 for methamphetamine addiction and other additional indications. If we are successful in obtaining approval of an NDA for CPP-109 as a treatment for cocaine addiction, of which there can be no assurance, in the future we plan to submit supplemental NDAs for additional indications. Depending on the data we rely upon, approval for additional indications for CPP-109 may be delayed. In addition, even if we receive supplemental NDA approval, the FDA has broad discretion to require us to generate additional data related to safety and efficacy to supplement the data used in the supplemental NDA. We could be required, before obtaining marketing approval for CPP-109 for additional indications, to conduct substantial new research and development activities, which could be more costly and time-consuming than we currently anticipate. We may not be able to obtain shortened review of our applications, and the FDA may not agree that we can market CPP-109 for additional indications. If we are required to generate substantial additional data to support approval, our product development and commercialization efforts will be delayed and we may suffer significant harm to our future financial performance. In addition, submission of supplemental NDAs for additional indications, conducting new research and development and generating additional data to support FDA approval will require that we obtain additional financing, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on acceptable terms, or at all. We will need to develop marketing, distribution and production capabilities or relationships to be successful. We do not currently have any marketing, distribution or production capabilities. In order to generate sales of CPP-109 or any other products we may develop, we must either acquire or develop an internal marketing force with technical expertise and with supporting documentation capabilities, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us. The acquisition and development of a marketing and distribution infrastructure will require substantial resources and compete for available resources with our product development efforts. To the extent that we enter into marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties, our revenues will depend on the efforts of others. If we fail to enter into such agreements, or if we fail to develop our own marketing and distribution channels, we would experience delays in product sales and incur increased costs. Similarly, we have no manufacturing capacity for production of our products. We have entered into an agreement with PII for the manufacture of CPP-109 for use in our upcoming U.S. Phase II clinical trials. We also intend in the future to enter into an agreement with PII and/or another contract manufacturer to manufacture CPP-109 for us if we are successful in obtaining FDA approval to commercialize this product. Any third party we contract with may not meet our manufacturing requirements, and may not pass FDA inspection. Moreover, if any third party fails to perform on a timely basis we may not be able to find a suitable replacement. If we cannot obtain 24 Table of Contents sufficient amounts of CPP-109 or any related final product, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully market CPP-109. Our business is subject to substantial competition. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive. In particular, competition for the development and marketing of therapies to treat addictive substances such as cocaine and methamphetamine is intense and expected to increase. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs and more experience developing products, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approval of products and manufacturing and marketing products. We compete against pharmaceutical companies that are developing or currently marketing therapies for addictive substances. In addition, we compete against biotechnology companies, universities, government agencies, and other research institutions in the development of substance abuse treatments, technologies and processes that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competitive commercial products. While we believe that our product candidates will offer advantages over many of the currently available competing therapies, our business could be negatively impacted if our competitors’ present or future offerings are more effective, safer or less expensive than ours, or more readily accepted by regulators, healthcare providers or third-party payors. Ovation Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which holds the North American rights to Sabril as an adjunctive therapy for the treatment of epilepsy and as a primary treatment for West Syndrome, has indicated its intent to undertake studies with respect to the use of Sabril in treating cocaine and methampetamine addiction. Ovation has recently entered into a CRADA with NIDA to study the use of Sabril in the treatment of cocaine addiction and methamphetamine addiction. The CRADA contemplates in-kind contributions by NIDA with respect to Ovation’s clinical studies and is a three to five-year program through Phase II clinical trials. We believe, although there can be no assurance, that our development plan for CPP-109 will allow us to move our product development efforts more quickly than can generally be completed under a CRADA. Further, we believe that any commercialization by Ovation of Sabril for this use would violate our licensed patents, and we have advised Ovation of our belief in that regard. We would vigorously assert our intellectual property rights if Ovation sought to market Sabril for the treatment of cocaine addiction and methamphetamine addiction. There can be no assurance we would be successful in that regard. Many of our competitors, including Ovation, have substantially greater financial, technical, and human resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in conducting clinical studies and obtaining regulatory approvals of prescription drugs. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA approval for products more rapidly than we can. Furthermore, if we are permitted to commence commercial sales of CPP-109, we may also compete with respect to manufacturing efficiency and marketing capabilities. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which would adversely affect our results of operations. If we are successful in obtaining approval to commercialize CPP-109, we will need to significantly expand our operations, which could put significant strain on our management and our operational and financial resources. We currently have five employees and five consultants and conduct most of our operations through outsourcing arrangements. To manage future growth, we will need to hire, train, and manage additional employees. Concurrent with expanding our operational and marketing capabilities, we will also need to increase our product development activities. We may not be able to support, financially or otherwise, future growth, or hire, train, motivate, and manage the required personnel. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to achieve our goals. Our success in managing our growth will depend in part on the ability of our executive officers to continue to implement and improve our operational, management, information and financial control systems and to expand, train and manage our employee base, and particularly to expand, train and manage a specially-trained sales force to market our products. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the intense competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and non-profit research institutions. Our inability to manage growth effectively could cause our operating costs to grow 25 Table of Contents at a faster pace than we currently anticipate, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We face a risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that may arise from the clinical testing, manufacture, and sale of CPP-109. Patients have received substantial damage awards in some jurisdictions against pharmaceutical companies based on claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of pharmaceutical products. Liability claims may be expensive to defend and result in large judgments against us. We currently carry liability insurance with an aggregate annual coverage limit of $5,000,000 per claim and $5,000,000 in the aggregate, with a deductible of $10,000 per occurrence and $50,000 in the aggregate. Our insurance may not reimburse us, or the coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims made against us. We cannot predict all of the possible harms or side effects that may result from the use of CPP-109 or any of our other future products and, therefore, the amount of insurance coverage we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities we might incur. If we are sued for any injury allegedly caused by our products, our liability could exceed our ability to pay the liability. Whether or not we are ultimately successful in any adverse litigation, such litigation could consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and stock price. Our commercial success depends on reimbursement from third-party and governmental insurers. Sales of pharmaceutical products in the United States depend largely on reimbursement of patients’ costs by private insurers, government health care programs including Medicare and Medicaid, and other organizations. These third-party payors control healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for healthcare products. In particular, the rising costs of pharmaceutical products are a subject of considerable attention and debate. Third-party payors are increasingly altering reimbursement levels and challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of pharmaceutical products. The reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products in particular is generally uncertain. The levels at which government authorities and private health insurers reimburse physicians or patients for the price they pay for CPP-109 and other products we may develop could affect the extent to which we are able to commercialize our products successfully. We have limited experience as a public company, and the obligations incident to being a public company will place significant demands on our management. From our inception until November 2006, we operated as a private company, not subject to the requirements applicable to public companies. Following completion of their audit of our financial statements for 2005, 2004 and 2003, our independent auditors, Grant Thornton, LLP, advised our Board of Directors and management that during the course of their audit, they noted an internal control deficiency constituting a significant deficiency and a material weakness as defined in professional standards. The deficiency noted related to our knowledge of accounting for equity instruments. Our auditors identified that we had not recorded compensation expense related to the issuance of non-employee stock options and had not reported sufficient compensation expense relating to stock that we issued to our consultants and scientific advisors for services. The required adjustments aggregated approximately $1.7 million. Management believes that it has corrected this weakness by hiring a Corporate Controller/Chief Accounting Officer in January 2007 with experience in preparing financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. As a public reporting company, we will need to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including periodic reports, disclosures and more complex accounting rules. As directed by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on a company’s internal control over financial reporting in their Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Based on current rules, we will be required to come into compliance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley over the next few years. If at such time as we become obligated to comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting as required by Section 404 , investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We are dependent on our relationship and license agreement with Brookhaven, and we rely upon the patents granted to us pursuant to the license agreement. All of our patent rights are derived from our license agreement with Brookhaven. Pursuant to this license agreement, we have licensed rights under nine patents and four patent applications in the United States, and 79 corresponding patents and patent applications outside of the United States, that were filed and obtained by Brookhaven relating to the use of vigabatrin for a range of indications, including the treatment of a wide variety of substance addictions. The nine issued patents expire between 2018 and 2021. We also have the right to future patents obtained by Brookhaven relating to the use of vigabatrin in treating addiction. See “Business — Patents and Intellectual Property Rights” for more information about our license with Brookhaven and our licensed patents and patent applications. These rights are subject to the right of the U.S. government, under limited circumstances, to practice the covered inventions for or on its own behalf. We may lose our rights to these patents and patent applications if we breach our obligations under the license agreement, including, without limitation, our financial obligations to Brookhaven. If we violate or fail to perform any term or covenant of the license agreement, Brookhaven may terminate the license agreement upon satisfaction of any applicable notice requirements and expiration of any applicable cure periods. Additionally, any termination of the license agreement, whether by us or by Brookhaven, will not relieve us of our obligation to pay any license fees owing at the time of such termination. If we fail to retain our rights under the license agreement, we would not be able to commercialize CPP-109, and our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects would be materially adversely affected. The license agreement also grants us rights to four pending U.S. patent applications. These applications may not result in issued patents. If patents are issued, any such patents might not provide any commercial benefit to us. If we obtain approval to market CPP-109, our commercial success will depend in large part on our ability to use patents, especially those licensed to us by Brookhaven, to exclude others from competing with us. The patent position of emerging pharmaceutical companies like us can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and technical issues. Until our licensed patents are interpreted by a court, either because we have sought to enforce them against a competitor or because a competitor has preemptively challenged them, we will not know the breadth of protection that they will afford us. Our patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or marketing competing products. Third parties may intentionally design around our patents so as to compete with us without infringing our patents. Moreover, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, and so our patents may be invalidated or rendered unenforceable if challenged by others. As a result of the foregoing factors, we cannot be certain how much protection from competition patent rights will provide us. Our success will depend significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. While we are not currently aware of any third-party patents whose claims we infringe, there can be no assurance that we will not infringe on patents held by third parties. In the event that our technologies infringe or violate the patent or other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing or commercialization of our products that utilize such technologies. There may be patents held by others of which we are unaware that contain claims that our products or operations infringe. In addition, given the complexities and uncertainties of patent laws, there may be patents of which we are aware that we may ultimately be held to infringe, particularly if the claims of the patent are determined to be broader than we believe them to be. Adding to this uncertainty, in the U.S., patent applications filed in recent years are confidential for 18 months, while older applications are not publicly available until the patent issues. As a result, avoiding patent infringement may be difficult. 27 Table of Contents If a third party claims that we infringe its patents, any of the following may occur: • we may be required to pay substantial financial damages if a court decides that our technologies infringe a competitor’s patent, which can be tripled if the infringement is deemed willful, or be required to discontinue or significantly delay development, marketing, selling and licensing of the affected products and intellectual property rights; • a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents; and • we may have to redesign our product so that it does not infringe others’ patent rights, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds or time. In addition, employees, consultants, contractors and others may use the proprietary information of others in their work for us or disclose our proprietary information to others. As an example, we do not have written agreements regarding confidentiality or any other matters with several principal members of our Scientific Advisory Board. If our employees, consultants, contractors or others disclose our data to others or use data belonging to others in connection with our business, it could lead to disputes over the ownership of inventions derived from that information or expose us to potential damages or other penalties. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. There is a history of substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical industry. We may be forced to defend claims of infringement brought by our competitors and others, and we may institute litigation against others who we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights. The outcome of intellectual property litigation is subject to substantial uncertainties and may, for example, turn on the interpretation of claim language by the court, which may not be to our advantage, or on the testimony of experts as to technical facts upon which experts may reasonably disagree. Under our license agreement with Brookhaven, we have the right to bring legal action against any alleged infringers of the patents we license. However, we are responsible for all costs relating to such potential litigation. We have the right to any proceeds received as a result of such litigation, but, even if we are successful in such litigation, there is no assurance we would be awarded any monetary damages. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense to us. Some of our competitors have considerable resources available to them and a strong economic incentive to undertake substantial efforts to stop or delay us from commercializing products. For example, Ovation, which holds rights in North America to Sabril for the treatment of epilepsy, has indicated its intent to seek to develop Sabril for the treatment of cocaine addiction and methamphetamine addiction. We believe that Ovation would infringe our patent rights if they seek to commercialize vigabatrin to treat cocaine addiction and/or methamphetamine addiction, and we have advised Ovation of our belief in that regard. We intend to vigorously pursue infringement claims against Ovation if it seeks to commercialize Sabril for these indications. However, we, unlike Ovation and many of our other competitors, are a relatively small company with comparatively few resources available to us to engage in costly and protracted litigation. Moreover, regardless of the outcome, intellectual property litigation against or by us could significantly disrupt our development and commercialization efforts, divert our management’s attention and quickly consume our financial resources. In addition, if third parties file patent applications or issue patents claiming technology that is also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings with the U.S. Patent Office or in other proceedings outside the U.S., including oppositions, to determine priority of invention or patentability. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs, and the time and 28 Table of Contents attention of our management and scientific personnel will be diverted from product development or other more productive matters. Risks Related to Government Regulation We have not received regulatory approval in the United States or any foreign jurisdiction for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates. The regulatory approval process is lengthy, and we may not be able to obtain all of the regulatory approvals required to manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. We do not have any products that have been approved for commercialization. We will not be able to commercialize our products until we have obtained the requisite regulatory approvals from applicable governmental authorities. To obtain regulatory approval of a product candidate, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory agency that such product candidate is safe and effective for its intended uses. The type and magnitude of the testing required for regulatory approval varies depending on the product candidate and the disease or condition for which it is being developed. In addition, in the U.S. we must show that the facilities used to produce the product candidate are in compliance with cGMP. We will also have to meet similar regulations in any foreign country where we may seek to commercialize CPP-109. In general, these requirements mandate that manufacturers follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures throughout the entire manufacturing process. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals typically takes several years and requires the expenditure of substantial capital and other resources. Despite the time, expense and resources invested by us in the approval process, we may not be able to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective, in which event we would not receive the regulatory approvals required to market them. The FDA and other regulatory authorities generally approve products for particular indications. While our current focus is on the development of CPP-109 as a treatment of cocaine addiction and methamphetamine addiction, we also intend to pursue CPP-109 as a treatment for addictions to other substances involving heightened dopamine levels, such nicotine, prescription pain medications, alcohol and marijuana, and related addictive disorders such as obesity and compulsive gambling. CPP-109 may not be approved for any or all of the indications that we request, which would limit the indications for which we can promote it and adversely impact our ability to generate revenues. If the approvals we obtain are limited, we may be required to conduct costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. Our receipt of Fast Track status does not mean that our product development efforts will be accelerated. The FDA has granted Fast Track designation for CPP-109 to treat cocaine addiction. Fast Track designation means, among other things, that the FDA recognizes cocaine addiction as an unmet medical need for which no pharmacologic products are currently approved for marketing, and consequently may initiate review of sections of an NDA before the application is complete in order to expedite regulatory review of the application. However, Fast Track designation does not accelerate clinical trials, nor does it mean that the regulatory requirements necessary to obtain an approval are less stringent. Our Fast Track designation does not guarantee that we will qualify for, or be able to take advantage of, priority review procedures following a submission of an NDA. Additionally, our Fast Track designation may be withdrawn by the FDA if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program, or if a competitor’s product is approved for the indication we are seeking. If our pre-clinical or clinical trials are unsuccessful or significantly delayed, our ability to commercialize our products will be impaired. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, we will likely have to conduct, at our own expense, some number of pre-clinical tests to demonstrate the safety of CPP-109 in animals. Pre-clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take several years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. Our pre-clinical tests may produce negative or inconclusive results, and on the basis of such results, we may decide, or regulators may require us, to halt ongoing clinical trials or conduct additional pre-clinical testing. 29 Table of Contents Additionally, we will need to conduct clinical trials demonstrating the safety of CPP-109 in humans. In the United States, where vigabatrin is not currently approved for use, we intend to commence during the second quarter of 2007 a Phase II clinical trial to assess the efficacy of using CPP-109 as a treatment for cocaine addiction and shortly thereafter, to commence a Phase II clinical trial to assess the efficacy of using CPP-109 as a treatment for methamphetamine addiction. We will also be required to conduct one or more Phase I clinical trials for CPP-109. While the scope of the required Phase I clinical trials are currently uncertain, it is likely that we will be required to perform studies of pharmacokinetics, cardiac function, drug-drug interaction and the effect of the drug on special populations. We may also develop and implement additional studies (including at least one U.S. Phase III clinical trial) in order to seek approval to commercialize CPP-109 for the treatment of cocaine addiction and methamphetamine addiction. However, even if the results of our upcoming clinical trials are promising, a drug may subsequently fail to meet the safety and efficacy standards required to obtain regulatory approvals. Future clinical trials for CPP-109 may not be successfully completed or may take longer than anticipated because of any number of factors, including potential delays in the start of the trial, an inability to recruit clinical trial participants at the expected rate, failure to demonstrate safety and efficacy, unforeseen safety issues, or unforeseen governmental or regulatory delays. Our U.S. Phase II clinical trials or any other clinical trial we might develop and implement may not be completed in a timely manner or at all. CPP-109 may not be found to be safe and effective, and may not be approved by regulatory authorities for the proposed indication, especially in light of known side effects associated with the drug. Further, regulatory authorities and IRBs that must approve and monitor the safety of each clinical study may suspend a clinical study at any time if the patients participating in such study are deemed to be exposed to any unacceptable health risk. We may also choose to suspend clinical trials and studies if we become aware of any such risks. We might encounter problems in our U.S. Phase II clinical trials or in other future studies we may conduct, including problems associated with VFDs or other side effects that will cause us, regulatory authorities or IRBs to delay or suspend such trial or study. In other countries where CPP-109 or any other product we develop may be marketed, we will also be subject to regulatory requirements governing human clinical studies and marketing approval for drugs. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical studies, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement varies widely from country to country. If we cannot demonstrate that CPP-109 is bioavailable and bioequivalent to Sabril, our product development efforts may be substantially delayed. We have entered into an agreement with PII to formulate and manufacture CPP-109 for use in our U.S. Phase II clinical trials. We have recently commenced a trial to demonstrate that CPP-109 is bioequivalent to Sabril in order to seek to take advantage of the extensive body of literature that has previously been published regarding vigabatrin. If we cannot demonstrate that CPP-109 is bioavailable and bioequivalent to Sabril, the FDA may require us to repeat or conduct additional clinical trials using CPP-109. This would likely result in significant delays in our product development activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Due to the nature of patients addicted to drugs, we may face significant delays in our clinical trials due to an inability to recruit patients for our clinical trials or to retain patients in the clinical trials we may perform. We may encounter difficulties in our clinical trials due to the nature of the addiction mechanism and our resulting target patient population. We do not know how long it will take to recruit patients for our Phase II clinical trials. Trial participants will be required to meet specific clinical standards for cocaine dependence and methamphetamine dependence, as specified in DSM-IV, a set of diagnosis guidelines established for clinical professionals. Further, participants must meet DSM-IV criteria only with respect to cocaine dependence or methamphetamine dependence, and will not be eligible to participate in our study if they meet the DSM-IV criteria for dependence with respect to other addictive substances (except nicotine). Because addicts are typically addicted to multiple substances, we may not be able to recruit a sufficient number of eligible participants within our anticipated timeframe or at all. In addition, due to the neurological and physiological mechanisms and implications of substance addiction, and as evidenced by the pilot studies of vigabatrin, it is likely that many of our clinical trial participants will not complete the trial. An unusually low rate of completion will present challenges, such as determining the statistical significance of trial results. Additionally, we compete for trial subjects with others conducting clinical trials testing other treatments for addictions. Finally, unrelated third parties, including Ovation and investigators in the academic community, have expressed interest in testing vigabatrin for the treatment of drug 30 Table of Contents abuse. If these third-party tests are unsuccessful, or if they show significant health risk to the test subjects, our development efforts may also be adversely affected. We have not conducted any pre-clinical testing for CPP-109 and we are not certain at this time which pre-clinical tests the FDA will require with respect to any NDA that we may file. The FDA will require us to submit the data from our pre-clinical testing for CPP-109 before approving our product. Some testing, such as carcinogenicity studies, which seek to identify the potential of a drug to cause tumors in animals and to assess the relevant risk in humans, will take, if required, several years to conduct. Some pre-clinical testing has previously been performed with respect to Sabril, and some of the data from such testing is publicly available. However, we do not yet know whether the FDA will consider such public data in reviewing any NDA we may file, what pre-clinical tests will be required or whether any pre-clinical tests will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. We do not know whether the pre-clinical tests that we undertake, if conducted, will be acceptable to the FDA. Our development of CPP-109 may require more than one U.S. Phase III clinical trials Generally, the process of seeking approval of an NDA requires multiple clinical trials, including two “pivotal” U.S. Phase III clinical trials. In our case, because CPP-109 is intended to treat a serious condition for which there is no approved therapy, it is possible that the FDA will permit us to file an NDA for CPP-109 on the basis of one U.S. Phase III trial supported by the safety and efficacy data obtained from our Phase II clinical trials, to the extent that such data are compelling. Even if the FDA permits us to file an NDA with only one “pivotal” U.S. Phase III trial, it is unlikely that we will submit an NDA for CPP-109 for several years. Further, if the FDA requires more than one Phase III clinical trial, our NDA submission would be delayed even further. If our third-party suppliers or contract manufacturers do not maintain high standards of manufacturing in accordance with cGMP and other manufacturing regulations, our development and commercialization activities could suffer significant interruptions or delays. We rely, and intend to continue to rely, on third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers to provide us with materials for our clinical trials and commercial-scale production of our products. These suppliers and manufacturers must continuously adhere to cGMP as well as any applicable corresponding manufacturing regulations outside of the U.S. In complying with these regulations, we and our third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers must expend significant time, money and effort in the areas of design and development, testing, production, record-keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in an enforcement action against us, including warning letters, the seizure of products, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, shutting down of production and criminal prosecution. Any of these third-party suppliers or contract manufacturers will also be subject to audits by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. If any of our third-party suppliers or contract manufacturers fail to comply with cGMP or other applicable manufacturing regulations, our ability to develop and commercialize our products could suffer significant interruptions and delays. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured the product ourselves, including: • reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • limitations on supply availability resulting from capacity and scheduling constraints of the third parties; • impact on our reputation in the marketplace if manufacturers of our products, once commercialized, fail to meet the demands of our customers; • the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; and • the possible termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. If any of our contract manufacturers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards, patients using our product candidates could be injured or die, resulting in product liability claims, product recalls, product 31 Table of Contents seizures or withdrawals, delays or failures in testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business or profitability. Post-approval marketing of our products will be subject to substantial government regulation. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines and withdrawal of approvals. Even if our products receive regulatory approvals, we will be subject to extensive ongoing government regulation. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may impose additional limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed, subsequently withdraw approval or take other actions against us or our products for many reasons, including subsequent discoveries of previously unknown problems or safety issues with the product. Also, based on subsequent events or other circumstances that may come to our attention, we may voluntarily take action to limit the marketing or use of one or more of our products. We may also be required to conduct additional post-approval pre-clinical or clinical studies. We are subject to inspection and market surveillance by regulatory authorities for compliance with regulations that prohibit the promotion of a medical product for a purpose or indication other than those for which approval has been granted. While a medical product manufacturer may not promote a product for such “off-label” use, doctors are allowed, in the exercise of their professional judgment in the practice of medicine, to use a product in ways not approved by regulatory authorities. A pattern of widespread off-label use could cause regulatory authorities to scrutinize our marketing activities. Regulatory authorities have broad enforcement power, and any failure by us to comply with manufacturing or marketing regulations could result in penalties, including warning letters, fines, partial or total suspension of production, product recalls or seizures, withdrawals of previously approved marketing approvals or applications, and criminal prosecutions. Substantial and changing healthcare regulations by state and federal authorities in the U.S. could reduce or eliminate our commercial opportunity in the addiction treatment industry. Healthcare organizations, public and private, continue to change the manner in which they operate and pay for services. These organizations have had to adapt to extensive and complex laws and regulations and judicial decisions governing activities including drug manufacturing and marketing. Additionally, the healthcare industry in recent years has been subject to increasing levels of government regulation of reimbursement rates and capital expenditures. We believe that the industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation, as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the healthcare system are considered by Congress and state legislatures. Any new legislative initiatives, if enacted, may further increase government regulation of or other involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates and otherwise change the operating environment for healthcare companies. We cannot predict the likelihood of all future changes in the healthcare industry in general, or the addiction treatment industry in particular, or what impact they may have on our earnings, financial condition or business. Government regulations applicable to our proposed products or the interpretation thereof might change and thereby prevent us from marketing some or all of our products and services for a period of time or indefinitely. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We are highly dependent on our small number of key personnel and advisors. We are highly dependent on our officers, on our Board of Directors and on our scientific advisors. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could significantly impede the achievement of our scientific and business objectives. Other than employment agreements with Patrick J. McEnany, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Jack Weinstein, our Chief Financial Officer, with respect to their services, and the consulting agreements we have with one of our officers, one of our board members and several of our scientific advisors, we have no employment or retention agreements with our officers, directors or scientific advisors. If we lose the services of any of our existing officers, directors or scientific advisors, or if we were unable to recruit qualified replacements on a timely basis for persons who leave our employ, our efforts to develop CPP-109 or other products might be significantly delayed. We do not carry key-man insurance on any of our personnel. 32 Table of Contents We have relationships with our scientific advisers and collaborators at academic and other institutions. Such individuals are employed by entities other than us and may have commitments to, or consulting advisory contracts with, such entities that may limit their availability to us. Although each scientific advisor and collaborator has agreed not to perform services for another person or entity that would create an appearance of a conflict of interest, the Chairman of our Scientific Advisory Board, Stephen L. Dewey, Ph.D., is a member of the Brookhaven staff and is actively involved in Brookhaven’s investigation of the neurological mechanisms involved in the addiction process. His research might result in pharmaceutical products that are competitive with, or superior to, vigabatrin. Similarly, other similar conflicts may arise from the work in which other scientific advisers and/or collaborators are involved. We are effectively controlled by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who is able to significantly influence or exert control over the outcome of most stockholder actions, including the election of all directors. This control could lead to entrenchment of our directors and management. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Patrick J. McEnany, beneficially owns approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. McEnany is in a position to significantly influence or exert control over the outcome of most stockholder actions, including the election of all directors. As a result, Mr. McEnany could take actions that might not be considered by other stockholders to be in their best interest. The trading price of the shares of our common stock could be highly volatile. The trading price of the shares could be highly volatile in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • developments concerning our clinical studies and trials; • announcements of product development failures and successes by us or our competitors; • new products introduced or announced by us or our competitors; • changes in reimbursement levels; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • expiration or termination of licenses (particularly our license from Brookhaven), research contracts or other collaboration agreements; • conditions or trends in the regulatory climate and the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; • intellectual property, product liability or other litigation against us; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; and • sales of shares of our common stock, particularly sales by our officers, directors and significant stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur. In addition, equity markets in general, and the market for emerging pharmaceutical and life sciences companies in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets. In addition, changes in economic conditions in the United States, Europe or globally could impact our ability to grow profitably. Adverse economic changes are outside our control and may result in material adverse impacts on our business or financial results. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of our shares, regardless of our own development and operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such 33 Table of Contents litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could delay and discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and applicable provisions of Delaware corporate law, may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our Board of Directors and management. These provisions include: • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend our charter documents, including stockholder supermajority voting requirements; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; • requirements that special meetings of our stockholders may only be called by the Board of Directors; and • advance notice procedures our stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates for election to our Board of Directors or to place stockholders’ proposals on the agenda for consideration at meetings of stockholders. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any person who owns 15% or more of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless board or stockholder approval is obtained. These provisions could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, or for members of our Board of Directors to be replaced, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board of Directors or management could deter potential acquirors or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. As of March 23, 2007 we had 12,527,564 shares of our common stock outstanding, of which 9,177,564 shares are restricted securities. The holders of 100% of our restricted shares have entered into lock-up agreements with the underwriters under which they have agreed not to sell their shares of common stock for 180 days from the date our initial public offering without the prior written consent of First Albany Capital Inc. We also intend to register for future sale the 2,188,828 shares of common stock that we may issue under our 2006 Stock Incentive Plan and the 2,374,149 shares of common stock underlying our outstanding stock options that were granted pursuant to written agreements. Sales of restricted shares or shares underlying stock options, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock or other securities, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors should not invest in our common stock if they require dividend income. Our stockholders will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading price of our common stock appreciates, which is uncertain and unpredictable. 34 Table of Contents 