ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The information contained in this report may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. See "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS" (page 99) for specific important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Risks Relating to Our Business Our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and as a result our financial results could be adversely affected. We are required to maintain adequate reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liabilities for loss and LAE. Loss and LAE reserves are typically comprised of (1) case reserves for claims reported and (2) reserves for losses that have occurred but for which claims have not yet been reported, referred to as IBNR reserves, which include a provision for expected future development on case reserves. These reserves are estimates based on actuarial, claims and underwriting assessments of what we believe the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known to us. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimating loss and LAE reserves, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and actual claims and claim expenses paid might exceed our reserves due to the uncertainties that surround estimating loss and LAE reserves. For example, we have a large number of workers' compensation permanent disability claims. These claims involve medical payments that will be made far into the future and therefore the impact of medical inflation including increased utilization could have a material adverse impact on the ultimate amount of losses paid. We had established gross loss and LAE reserves of $3,358.6 million and $3,295.5 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded favorable loss reserve development of $2.9 million, $57.1 million and $116.7 million, respectively, net of reinsurance, related to the re-estimation of previously established reserves. With the sales of personal lines, commercial lines and AutoOne, our reserve volatility will be more heavily influenced by less frequent, larger claims. During 2011, we had some adverse development in long-tailed businesses. With the change in our mix of business, the average duration of the reserves will gradually increase. A longer average claim life will make our reserves more sensitive to inflation. We have modeled the impact of future inflation on our reserve portfolio, and we estimate that our current reserves would be sufficient, if released, to cover adverse development to the 99th percentile of all inflation scenarios. Our principal risk management tools for reserve volatility are to 1) maintain a conservative provision for the loss and loss expense liabilities, 2) test reserve adequacy on a quarterly basis, and 3) purchase excess of loss reinsurance annually to limit potential adverse development on individual claims to our retentions. If in the future we determine that our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual loss and LAE, we would have to strengthen our reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For additional information relating to loss and LAE reserve requirements, see "Regulatory Matters." For further discussion of our loss and LAE reserves, including our A&E reserves, see "Business—Loss and LAE Reserves" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates." 24 Table of Contents Exposure to asbestos or environmental claims could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have exposure to A&E claims which may be difficult to estimate. To help protect against potential A&E claims relating to the period prior to 2001, we have a reinsurance contract from NICO, rated "A++" (Superior, the highest of fifteen financial strength ratings) by A.M. Best and "AA+" (Very Strong, the second highest of twenty-one financial strength ratings) by Standard & Poor's. We refer to this reinsurance contract as the NICO Cover. Under the NICO Cover, we are entitled to recover up to $2.5 billion from NICO for (1) all asbestos claims arising from business written by us in 1992 and prior, (2) all environmental claims arising from business written by us in 1987 and prior, and (3) certain other latent exposures. In September 2011, we completed a study of our A&E exposures based on experience through 2010. Reasonable estimates of potential adverse scenarios continue to be within the $2.5 billion reinsurance cover issued by NICO. Based on the study, we increased the point estimate of incurred losses ceded to NICO, net of underlying reinsurance, by $121.9 million to $2.3 billion. As of December 31, 2011, we have ceded estimated incurred losses of approximately $2.3 billion to the NICO Cover, leaving remaining protection under the NICO Cover of $198.3 million. Net losses paid totaled $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2011. Due to exclusions in policy language and changes in coverages provided, we do not believe that we have significant exposure to asbestos claims arising from business we wrote after 1992 or to environmental claims arising from business we wrote after 1987. As of December 31, 2011, we had established gross loss and LAE reserves for asbestos claims of $1,074.3 million. Approximately 99% of these loss and LAE reserves are covered under reinsurance arrangements. Our net loss and LAE reserves for asbestos claims after giving effect to third-party reinsurance other than the NICO Cover were $681.2 million at December 31, 2011. Our net loss and LAE reserves for asbestos claims after giving effect to both third-party reinsurance and the NICO Cover were $2.2 million at December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we had established gross loss and LAE reserves for environmental claims of $279.8 million. Approximately 97% of these loss and LAE reserves are covered under reinsurance arrangements. Our net loss and LAE reserves for environmental claims after giving effect to third-party reinsurance other than the NICO Cover were $151.6 million at December 31, 2011. Our net loss and LAE reserves for environmental claims after giving effect to both third-party reinsurance and the NICO Cover were $9.0 million as of December 31, 2011. Estimating our exposure to A&E claims is subject to a high degree of uncertainty and could exceed the coverage available under our reinsurance arrangements or our net loss and LAE reserves. Policyholders continue to assert new theories of recovery. From time to time, there is proposed state and federal legislation regarding A&E liability, which would also affect our exposure. Although the number of our A&E related claims has been decreasing since 2004, there is no assurance that these or other factors may not impact our liability and increase our claims. If we do not have adequate reinsurance protection and if we have not established adequate loss and LAE reserves to cover future claims, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance arrangements. Additionally, we may be unable to collect all amounts due from our reinsurers under our existing reinsurance arrangements. We attempt to limit our risk of loss through reinsurance arrangements. The availability and cost of reinsurance protection is subject to market conditions, which are outside of our control. In addition, the coverage under our reinsurance contracts may be inadequate to cover our future liabilities. As a result, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through these arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents We are not relieved of our obligations to our policyholders by purchasing reinsurance. We may be unable to recover amounts due under our reinsurance arrangements if our reinsurers choose to withhold payment due to a dispute or other factors beyond our control. We are also subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance in the event that a reinsurer is unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of a deterioration in its financial condition. A number of reinsurers experienced such deterioration in the aftermath of the 2001 terrorist attacks and the active 2005 hurricane season. To mitigate this risk, we annually review and periodically monitor our reinsurers' financial condition and require at the time of purchase of reinsurance that each of our reinsurers holds a rating of at least "A-" (Excellent, the fourth highest of fifteen financial strength ratings) by A.M. Best or the equivalent. While we believe that our reinsurers' financial condition is strong, it is possible that one or more of our reinsurers will be significantly adversely affected by future significant loss events, causing them to be unable to pay amounts owed to us. Many of our reinsurers are non-U.S. companies and as such are subject to foreign regulations, including Solvency II which will be effective January 1, 2013 and will regulate insurance firms that operate in the European Union. Solvency II was enacted to reduce the risk that insurers would not be able to pay claims to policyholders as well as promote financial stability through minimum capital and other requirements for the governance, risk management and supervision of insurers. We cannot predict what regulations will be adopted to implement Solvency II nor the impact of such regulation upon our non-U.S. reinsurers, which could affect our ability to obtain reinsurance on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Unpredictable catastrophic events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We write insurance policies that cover catastrophic events. Our policies cover unpredictable natural and other disasters, such as hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, floods, fires, explosions and severe winter weather. Recent event frequency, particularly severe storms, has been high relative to historic standards. Our exposure to catastrophic windstorms is the largest natural catastrophe risk to our business, although our probable maximum loss, or PML, estimates decreased significantly during 2010 and 2011 as a result of the Commercial Lines Transaction and Personal Lines Transaction. In particular, while windstorm damage remains the largest natural catastrophe exposure for us, our PML balance is more evenly distributed across the United States as a result of the Commercial Lines Transaction and Personal Lines Transaction and the resulting shift in our business by geographic region. We continue to have some exposure to windstorm damage in the United States Atlantic Coast (i.e., Massachusetts to Florida) and the United States Gulf Coast region (i.e., Florida to Texas). We also continue to have exposure to a major earthquake in California, although our PML estimates have declined as a result of the Commercial Lines Transaction. In addition, we are exposed to losses from terrorist attacks, such as attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Increases in the value and concentrations of insured property, the effects of inflation and changes in cyclical weather patterns may increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. Claims from catastrophic events could reduce our earnings and cause substantial volatility in our results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year and adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to write new insurance policies could also be impacted as a result of corresponding reductions in our surplus levels. We manage our exposure to catastrophic losses by limiting the aggregate insured value of policies in geographic areas with exposure to catastrophic events, by estimating our PML for many different catastrophe scenarios and by buying reinsurance. To manage and analyze aggregate insured values and PML, we use a variety of tools, including catastrophe modeling software packages. Our estimates of PML are dependent on many variables, including assumptions about the demand surge and storm surge, loss adjustment expenses, insurance-to-value and storm intensity in the aftermath of 26 Table of Contents weather-related catastrophes utilized to model the event and the relationship of the actual event to the modeled event. Accordingly, if our assumptions about these variables are incorrect, the losses we might incur from an actual catastrophe could be materially higher than our expectation of losses generated from modeled catastrophe scenarios, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We also purchase reinsurance to hedge our risk of loss from catastrophes. In December 2009, we completed the Commercial Lines Transaction. In July 2010, we completed the Personal Lines Transaction. The Commercial Lines Transaction reduced our exposure to catastrophic events and our PML during 2010 and 2011 as policy terms expired, while the Personal Lines Transaction generally reduced our exposure immediately upon closing. In particular, at each of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we estimated our 1-in-250 year loss from hurricanes to be approximately $152 million, $222 million and $750 million, respectively, on a gross basis. Future insurance and reinsurance coverage for terrorist acts is uncertain, and we may in the future have substantial exposure to such acts. We are unable to predict the extent to which our future insurance contracts will cover terrorist acts. We also are unsure how terrorist acts will be defined in our future contracts. The Terrorism Act, which has been modified and extended through the end of 2014, requires primary commercial insurers to make terrorism coverage available and provides Federal protection for certain losses above both individual company retention and industry retention levels. While we know of no reason that the Terrorism Act will not be extended for an additional period of time, there is no assurance that it will be extended or of the terms of any such extension. The following types of coverage are excluded from the program: commercial automobile, burglary and theft, surety, farmowners multi-peril and all professional liability coverages except directors and officers coverage. We manage our exposure to losses resulting from acts of terrorism by limiting our concentration of risk by geographic area. We estimate our PML for different scenarios using computer models in conjunction with other data. We also manage our terrorism exposures by purchasing reinsurance. Our current property and casualty catastrophe reinsurance programs provide coverage for us for "non-certified" events as defined under the Terrorism Act, provided such losses are not the result of a nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological terrorist attack. Nonetheless, risks insured by us, including those covered by the Terrorism Act, remain exposed to terrorist attacks and the possibility remains that losses resulting from future terrorist attacks could prove to be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse changes in interest rates, equity markets, debt markets or market volatility could result in significant losses to the fair value of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio consists of fixed maturity securities, convertible fixed maturity securities, short-term investments, common equity securities and other investments such as hedge funds and private equity funds. We invest to maximize after tax total risk-adjusted return over the long term subject to our investment guidelines and various regulatory restrictions. However, investing entails substantial risks. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objectives, and our investment performance may vary substantially over time. Investment returns are an important part of our strategy to grow book value, and fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our results of operations and financial condition. Investments generate both income, consisting primarily of interest earned on fixed maturity investments and dividends earned on equity securities, and realized and unrealized investment gains or losses. Both the investment income we generate and the fair market value of our investment portfolio are affected by general economic and market conditions, including fluctuations in interest rates, debt market levels, equity market levels and market volatility. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political 27 Table of Contents conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we attempt to manage the risks of changes in interest rates, we may not be able to do so. In particular, a significant increase in interest rates could result in significant losses in the fair value of our investment portfolio, and consequently, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to changes in equity markets. We are also exposed to changes in the volatility levels of various investment markets. The underlying conditions are outside of our control and could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations and financial condition. We are highly dependent on WM Advisors, which is owned by White Mountains, and Prospector, in connection with the management of our investment portfolio. WM Advisors supervises and directs the fixed income and other investments portion of our investment portfolio, and Prospector supervises and directs the publicly-traded common equity securities and convertible fixed maturity securities portion of our investment portfolio. We entered into a new investment management agreement with WM Advisors effective October 1, 2010 which replaced the November 2006 agreement and remains in full force and effect until terminated by either party upon sixty (60) days' prior written notice. We entered into a new investment management agreement with Prospector effective March 1, 2011 which replaced the 2006 agreement with substantially the same terms and conditions as the 2006 agreement, including an initial fixed term of three years which may be extended for an additional two year term. If we lose our investment relationship with either of WM Advisors or Prospector, we may not be able to secure an investment advisor or advisors who will produce returns on our investments similar to these produced by WM Advisors and Prospector in the past, or any positive returns at all. We may not maintain favorable financial strength or creditworthiness ratings, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the financial strength, including claims-paying ability, of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies and are subject to revision at any time at the sole discretion of the agencies. Some of the criteria relate to general economic conditions and other circumstances outside the rated company's control. These financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, agents and brokers as an important means of assessing the suitability of insurers as business counterparties and have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. These financial strength ratings do not refer to our ability to meet non-insurance obligations and are not a recommendation to purchase or discontinue any policy or contract issued by us or to buy, hold or sell our securities. General creditworthiness ratings are used by existing or potential investors to assess the likelihood of repayment on a particular debt issue. We believe that strong creditworthiness ratings are important factors that provide better financial flexibility when issuing new debt or restructuring existing debt. Rating agencies periodically evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to us. Our current financial strength ratings are "A" (Excellent, third highest of fifteen ratings) by A. M. Best, "A-" (Strong, seventh highest of twenty-one ratings) by Standard & Poor's, "A2" (Good, sixth highest of twenty-one ratings) by Moody's and "A" (Strong, sixth highest of twenty-one ratings) by Fitch. We currently have a "Stable" outlook from each of A.M. Best, Standard & Poor's, Fitch and Moody's. A downgrade, withdrawal or negative watch/outlook of our financial strength ratings could severely limit or prevent our insurance subsidiaries from writing new insurance policies or renewing existing insurance policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A downgrade, withdrawal or negative watch/outlook of White Mountains' or our creditworthiness ratings could limit our ability to raise new debt or make new debt more costly and/or have more restrictive conditions. 28 Table of Contents Our debt and related service obligations could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2011, we had $269.9 million face value of indebtedness. During 2011, we decreased our indebtedness by $150.0 million through a tender offer in April 2011. See "Business—Investing, Financing and Other Corporate Operations". Our ability to meet our debt and related service obligations, as well as our ability to pay a dividend on our common shares, will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, White Mountains is subject to restrictive financial covenants contained in its revolving credit facility that require White Mountains to pay the principal and interest on its debt and maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy financial condition tests. A breach of these covenants could result in an event of default under White Mountains' revolving credit facility which would allow lenders to declare all amounts owed under the revolving credit facility to be immediately due and payable. A failure to pay principal and interest on White Mountains' revolving credit facility could trigger cross acceleration provisions contained in the indenture of our Senior Notes. In addition, if we or White Mountains defaults under a credit agreement, mortgage or similar debt agreement with a principal amount greater than $25 million, and such default results in the acceleration of such debt, there is a default under the Senior Notes which would permit the holders of 25% or more of the Senior Notes to declare an event of default under the indenture documents resulting in a required repayment of the Senior Notes. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations, or to repay any accelerated indebtedness as a result of the trigger of the cross acceleration provisions in the indentures of the Senior Notes. If we do not have enough cash, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more cash or sell equity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, if at all. See the risk factor concerning our Senior Notes, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financing" and Note 15—"Related Party Disclosures" of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We could incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock in the future. To the extent new debt, preferred stock and other obligations are added to our and our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the risks described in the previous paragraph would increase. We are a holding company with no direct operations, and our insurance subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends to us is restricted by law. As a holding company with no direct operations, we rely on net investment income and dividends and other permitted payments from our subsidiaries to pay our expenses. Our subsidiaries may not be able to generate cash flow sufficient to pay a dividend or distribute funds to us. In addition, under the insurance laws of the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, an insurer is restricted with respect to the timing or the amount of dividends it may pay without the prior approval of regulatory authorities. Generally, our regulated operating subsidiaries have the ability to pay dividends during any 12-month period without the prior approval of regulatory authorities in an amount set by formula based on the greater of prior year statutory net income or 10% of prior year statutory surplus, subject to the availability of unassigned funds. Our top tier regulated operating subsidiaries have the ability to pay approximately $103 million of dividends during 2012, subject to the availability of unassigned funds. At December 31, 2011, our top tier regulated operating subsidiaries had $0.7 billion of unassigned funds available for dividend distribution. Management believes that our cash balances, cash flows from operations and cash flows from investments are adequate to meet expected cash requirements for the foreseeable future on both a holding company and operating subsidiary level. However, if our insurance subsidiaries cannot pay dividends in future periods, we may have difficulty servicing our debt, paying dividends on our common shares and meeting our holding company expenses. For additional information relating to insurance regulations governing our operations, see "Regulatory Matters." 29 Table of Contents The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive and cyclical, and we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive and has historically been cyclical, experiencing periods of severe price competition and less selective underwriting standards (soft markets) followed by periods of relatively high prices and more selective underwriting standards (hard markets). Our businesses each compete against a different subset of companies. In general terms, we compete to varying degrees in one or more of our businesses with most of the large multi-line insurance companies, such as ACE Limited, Chartis Insurance, Chubb Group of Insurance Companies, CNA Insurance, Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, Travelers Insurance Group Holdings Inc. and Zurich Financial Services Ltd. We also compete with most of the specialty companies, such as Allied World Assurance Company, HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., Ironshore Inc., Markel Corporation, RLI Corp. and W.R. Berkley Corporation. Lastly, we compete in certain of our businesses with various local and regional insurance companies. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we do and have established long-term and continuing business relationships throughout the insurance industry, which can be a significant competitive advantage for them. We offer our products through a network of independent agents, regional and national brokers, wholesalers and MGAs. We selectively appoint our distribution partners based upon their knowledge of our target markets, and our specialized capabilities as well as their geographic profiles. We sometimes pay higher commissions and incur higher expenses to align with these distribution partners, however, we believe that they add value to our business with their specialized knowledge. These agents, brokers, MGAs and wholesalers are sometimes able to offer substantial discounts in pricing through their other markets as compared to our insurance products. If our distribution partners experience increased competition from other writers of insurance, we in turn could be adversely affected if they are unable to maintain our competitive position in their respective markets. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position throughout soft and hard market cycles, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The current pricing market is highly competitive and soft, however, we have maintained underwriting and pricing discipline. Any significant decrease in the rates we can charge for property and casualty insurance would adversely affect our results. We expect to continue to experience the effects of this cyclicality which, during down periods, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may suffer losses from unfavorable outcomes from litigation and other legal proceedings. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to litigation and other legal proceedings as part of the claims process, the outcomes of which are uncertain. We maintain reserves for these legal proceedings as part of our loss and LAE reserves. We do not believe that the ultimate outcome of such matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. However, adverse outcomes are possible and could negatively impact our financial condition. In addition, we also maintain separate reserves for legal proceedings that are not related to the claims process. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more legal matters, our ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts we have currently reserved for and such additional amounts may be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Except as disclosed in "Legal Proceedings" and Note 16 to our financial statements, as of December 31, 2011, we had no material pending non-claims legal proceedings. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number and size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not 30 Table of Contents become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. Our profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation, legislative actions and judicial decisions. The effects of inflation could cause claim costs to rise in the future. In addition, legislative actions and judicial decisions continue to broaden liability and policy definitions and to increase the severity of claim payments, such as described above with respect to A&E claims. To the extent inflation and these legislative actions and judicial decisions cause claim costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss and LAE reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Regulation may restrict our ability to operate. The insurance industry is subject to extensive regulation under U.S. and state laws. Governmental agencies have broad administrative power to regulate many aspects of the insurance business, which include premium rates, marketing practices, advertising, policy forms and capital adequacy. These governmental agencies are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. Insurance laws and regulations impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments, prescribe solvency standards that must be met and maintained and require the maintenance of reserves. Premium rate regulation may make it difficult for us to increase premiums to adequately reflect the cost of providing insurance coverage to our policyholders. In our underwriting, we rely heavily upon information gathered from third parties such as credit report agencies and other data aggregators. The use of this information is also highly regulated and any changes to the current regulatory structure could materially affect how we underwrite and price premiums. Changes in federal or state laws and regulations may restrict our ability to operate and/or have an adverse effect upon the profitability of our business within a given jurisdiction, and could have an effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted in 2010, created the FIO within the Treasury Department. The FIO is responsible for gathering information and monitoring the insurance industry to identify gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or U.S. financial system. The FIO also has the authority to recommend changes to state insurance laws and regulations. The FIO is expected to issue its first report on modernizing and improving insurance regulation in 2012. We cannot predict whether the FIO will recommend any such changes, whether any states will adopt any such changes, or what effect such changes may have on our insurance operations. As another example, it is possible that the NAIC could adopt part or all of Solvency II including minimum capital requirements that could be in excess of our current minimum capital requirements established by state regulations. If the NAIC adopted Solvency II including additional capital requirements, our business and results of operations could be materially impacted. Mandated market mechanisms may require us to underwrite policies with a higher risk of loss, and assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds and second-injury funds may reduce our profitability. We are often required to participate directly or indirectly in mandatory shared market mechanisms as a condition of our licenses to do business in certain states. These markets, which are commonly referred to as "residual" or "involuntary" markets, generally consist of risks considered to be undesirable from a standard or routine underwriting perspective. Underwriting performance related to assigned risk plans, a form of mandated market mechanism, is typically adverse and, as a result, we are required to underwrite some policies with a higher risk of loss than we would normally accept. Our participation in assigned risk plans may result in greater liabilities than we anticipate and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents In addition, virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some insureds as the result of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These guaranty funds are funded by assessments that are expected to increase in the future as a result of recent insolvencies. Many states also have laws that established second-injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury which are funded by either assessments based on paid losses or premium surcharge mechanisms. The effect of these assessments and surcharges or changes in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. We depend on our key personnel to manage our business effectively and they may be difficult to replace. Our performance substantially depends on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other executive officers and key employees, including our experienced teams of specialty underwriters. Furthermore, much of our competitive advantage is based on the expertise, experience and know-how of our key management personnel and underwriting teams. We do not have fixed term employment agreements with any of our key employees nor key man life insurance, and the loss of one or more of these key employees could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends on the ability to hire and retain additional key personnel including underwriting teams. Difficulty in hiring or retaining key personnel could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We may not be successful in developing our specialty businesses which could cause us to underestimate reserves, incur additional expenses, and fail to fully realize our investments in these businesses, which could materially affect our business and results of operations. We have recently entered into new specialty business lines, including energy and excess and surplus lines. We intend to continue to look for appropriate opportunities to diversify our business portfolio by adding new specialty lines of insurance coverage. We also intend to continue to grow our existing specialty business lines. Due to our limited history in new business lines, there could be limited financial information available to us to help us estimate sufficient loss reserves for these lines and to help evaluate whether we will be able to successfully develop these lines or the likely ultimate losses and expenses associated with these lines. Also, we may have less experience than some of our competitors in managing certain of these business lines. We may also incur expenses related to these business lines that may be difficult to manage in addition to our existing expense structure. Accordingly, we may fail to fully realize the benefits and profits from some or all of our new specialty lines businesses relative to the resources that we invest in them. Also, these business lines may fail to perform at the levels we anticipate. Although we have a conservative approach to adding new businesses to our portfolio, including stringent management oversight of, among other areas, underwriting, product and pricing development, and financial performance, there is no assurance that we will be able to realize profitability from some or all of these new specialty businesses, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or available to us on favorable terms. Raising additional capital could dilute your ownership in our company and may cause the market price of our common shares to fall. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: •fund liquidity needs; •replace capital lost in the event of a catastrophe or adverse reserve development or investment losses; 32 Table of Contents •repay $269.9 million aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes; •satisfy letter of credit or guarantee bond requirements that may be imposed by our clients or by regulators; •acquire new businesses or invest in existing businesses; •expand our business into new regions and countries; or •otherwise respond to competitive pressures. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity will dilute your ownership percentage in our company and may decrease the market price of our common shares. Furthermore, the securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior or otherwise superior to those of our common shares. Any additional financing we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. We may be unable to adequately maintain our systems and safeguard the security of our data which may adversely impact our ability to operate our business and cause reputational harm and financial loss. Our business and operations rely on secure and efficient processing, storage and transmission of customer and company data, including personally identifiable information such as a name together with a social security number, bank account number, driver's license number, passport number or birthday (PII). Our ability to effectively operate our business depends upon our ability and the ability of certain third parties including vendors and business partners to access our computer systems to perform necessary business functions such as providing quotes and product pricing, billing and processing premiums, administering claims, and reporting our financial results. Our business and operations also depend upon our ability to safeguard PII and other confidential and proprietary information belonging to us, our employees, our policyholders and our business partners as well as Tower's policyholders as a result of the TSA entered into in connection with the Personal Lines Transaction. Our systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access and hackers, computer viruses, and other scenarios in which our data may be vulnerable to a breach. Specifically, we could be exposed to data breach risk from lost or stolen laptops, other portable media or misdirected mailings containing PII. Data incidents could result in reputational harm to us, which could affect our business and results of operations. Nearly every state has enacted data breach laws and regulations that require, among other things, notification to affected persons and state regulatory agencies of a data breach that involves PII. Some U.S. state and federal laws also require us to implement measures to safeguard PII. For example, new Massachusetts regulations require our employees to encrypt information stored on laptops and other portable devices and transmitted through electronic media, and take reasonable steps to verify that our third-party vendors utilize security procedures to protect PII. We have taken a number of steps to mitigate our risk. We have a Data Privacy Committee and a Chief Information Security Officer. We have implemented policies, procedures, training and education of employees, as well as technology solutions to safeguard our information. Although we have taken measures to safeguard our information and that of policyholders and other third parties, and we continually monitor the security of our systems and information, we could be exposed to data loss. As a result, our ability to conduct our business may be affected, and impact our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. 33 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Relationship with White Mountains Control of us by White Mountains and the holding of White Mountains shares by some of our directors and officers may result in conflicts of interest. White Mountains beneficially owns all of our Class B common shares, representing 96.9% of the voting power of our voting securities and 75.5% of our total equity as of December 31, 2011. As long as White Mountains owns our common shares representing more than 50% of the voting power of our outstanding voting securities, White Mountains will generally be able to determine the outcome of all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors. Furthermore, we are relying on the "controlled company" exemption under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, and are therefore not required to have a majority of independent directors on our Board. Of the ten directors that we have on our Board, six are current or former employees, directors or officers of White Mountains. White Mountains also has control over the adoption or amendment of provisions in our memorandum of association or bye-laws and the approval of amalgamations, mergers, and other significant corporate transactions. Furthermore, White Mountains will continue to be able to exercise this control as long as their economic equity ownership in us is at least 20%. These factors also may delay or prevent a change in the management or voting control of us. Also, at some time in the future, White Mountains may sell all or a portion of its ownership interest in us or may make a tax-free distribution to its shareholders of all or a portion of that interest. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between us and White Mountains in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Certain of our directors and executive officers may own substantial amounts of White Mountains stock and may also be directors or officers of White Mountains from time to time. Their ownership of White Mountains stock and these other relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and White Mountains. These potential conflicts could arise, for example, over matters such as the desirability of an acquisition opportunity, employee retention or recruiting, or our dividend policy. White Mountains may compete with us and the involvement of those individuals who are directors and officers of White Mountains and directors of ours in resolving matters relating to such competition will not constitute a breach of fiduciary duty to us. Our bye-laws provide that White Mountains will have no obligation to refrain from: •engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as we do; or •doing business with any of our clients or customers. Because White Mountains may currently or in the future engage in the same activities in which we engage, we may be in direct competition with White Mountains. While White Mountains has indicated to us that its current expectation is to manage its activities such that opportunities to acquire specialty businesses will be pursued through OneBeacon, White Mountains is not legally obligated to do so and could in the future manage its activities in a different way. Due to the resources of White Mountains, including financial resources, name recognition and knowledge of our strengths, weaknesses and business practices, White Mountains could have a competitive advantage over us should it decide to engage in the type of business we conduct, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The corporate opportunity policy included in our bye-laws addresses potential conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and White Mountains and its officers and directors who are also our directors, on the other hand. These provisions are designed to resolve conflicts between us and White Mountains. Under our bye-laws, it is not a breach of fiduciary duty on the part of any of our officers and directors by reason of their participation in any of the above described activities. 34 Table of Contents Transitional and other arrangements with White Mountains may not be on arm's length terms. In connection with the initial public offering, we entered into certain contractual arrangements with White Mountains and its affiliates. These agreements were made in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship. For example, some of our investments are managed pursuant to an investment management agreement on a discretionary basis by a registered investment advisor which is owned by White Mountains. We have a multi-year investment management contract with this advisor. While we are satisfied with the terms of such arrangement, we cannot confirm that such terms are as favorable to us as they might have been had we contracted with an independent advisor. On the other hand, after the expiration of this agreement, we may not be able to replace these investment services in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including cost, that are comparable to those we receive from White Mountains, and we may have to pay higher prices for similar services from unaffiliated third parties. For more information on these and other arrangements with White Mountains, see Note 15—"Related Party Disclosures" of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Refinancing of our Senior Notes may occur on unfavorable terms. In connection with the initial public offering, we entered into an agreement with White Mountains pursuant to which White Mountains guarantees the Senior Notes of our subsidiary, OBH, for a specified fee in the amount of 25 basis points per annum on the outstanding principal amount of the Senior Notes. We further agreed that if White Mountains' voting interest in our common shares ceases to represent more than 50% of all our voting securities, we will seek to redeem, exchange or otherwise modify the Senior Notes in order to fully and permanently eliminate White Mountains' obligations under its guarantee. White Mountains and its subsidiaries beneficially own all of our outstanding Class B common shares, representing 96.9% of the voting power of our voting securities. If we have not successfully eliminated the guarantee within 180 days upon notice of the triggering of the voting interest condition, the guarantee fee will increase by 200 basis points. The guarantee fee will further increase by 100 basis points for each subsequent 90 day period thereafter, up to a maximum guarantee fee of 425 basis points, until White Mountains' obligations under its guarantee have been extinguished. This arrangement could require us to devote significant time and expense trying to refinance the Senior Notes and we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. White Mountains has a revolving credit facility which provides for borrowing up to a maximum of $375 million and which contains restrictive financial covenants. The indenture documents governing the Senior Notes provide that if White Mountains as guarantor of the Senior Notes defaults under a credit agreement, mortgage or similar debt agreement with a principal amount greater than $25 million, and such default results in the accelerations of such debt, there is a default under the Senior Notes (commonly referred to as a "cross default"). Such a default would result in a trigger of the cross default provisions in the indenture documents governing the Senior Notes which would permit the holders of 25% or more of the Senior Notes to declare an event of default under the indenture document resulting in a required repayment of the Senior Notes. While we believe that White Mountains is able to meet its obligations under its revolving credit facility, there is the potential that adverse market or other conditions which cannot be controlled could adversely impact White Mountains' ability to meet its obligations as well as our ability to refinance the Senior Notes in the event of a cross default. As of December 31, 2011, the credit facility was undrawn. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financing" and Note 15—"Related Party Disclosures" of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 35 Table of Contents Risks That Relate to Taxes We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2035. We have received a standard assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance, under Bermuda's Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or our shares, debentures or other obligations until March 31, 2035. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance's assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035. In the event that we become subject to any Bermuda tax after such date, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in tax laws or tax treaties may cause more of the income of certain non-U.S. companies in our group to become subject to taxes in the United States. The taxable income of our U.S. subsidiaries is subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax and other taxes. The income of the non-U.S. companies in our group is generally not subject to tax in the United States other than withholding taxes on interest and dividends. Certain of our non-U.S. companies are eligible for the benefits of tax treaties between the United States and other countries. We believe our non-U.S. companies will continue to be eligible for treaty benefits. However, it is possible that factual changes or changes to U.S. tax laws or changes to tax treaties that presently apply to our non-U.S. companies could increase income, or the tax rate on income, subject to tax in the United States. Similarly, changes to the applicable tax laws, treaties or regulations of other countries could subject the income of members of our group to higher rates of tax outside the United States. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this report, we had no unresolved written comments from the Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 