Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves certain risks relating to our structure and investment objectives. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face, and we face other risks which we have not yet identified, which we do not currently deem material or which are not yet predictable. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to our business We may not replicate the Company’s historical performance or the historical performance of other entities managed or supported by the Advisor. We may not be able to replicate the Company’s historical performance or the historical performance of the Advisor’s investments, and our investment returns may be substantially lower than the returns achieved by the Company in the past. We can offer no assurance that the Advisor will be able to continue to implement our investment objective with the same degree of success as it has had in the past. We may suffer credit losses. Investment in middle-market companies is highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk of credit loss, and therefore our securities may not be suitable for someone with a low tolerance for risk. These risks are likely to increase during an economic recession, such as the United States and many other economies experienced over the past several years. Our use of borrowed funds and preferred securities, including under the Leverage Program, to make investments exposes us to risks typically associated with leverage. The Operating Company borrows money and has the Preferred Interests outstanding through the Leverage Program. As a result: ·our common stock is exposed to incremental risk of loss and a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common stock than if we did not use leverage; ·adverse changes in interest rates could reduce or eliminate the incremental income we make with the proceeds of any leverage; ·we, and indirectly our common stockholders, bear the entire cost of issuing and paying interest or dividends on any borrowed funds or preferred securities issued by us or the Operating Company; ·our ability to pay dividends on our common stock will be restricted if our asset coverage ratio is not at least 200% and any amounts used to service indebtedness or preferred stock would not be available for such dividends; and ·our ability to amend the Operating Company organizational documents or investment management agreements may be restricted if such amendment could have a material adverse impact on the lenders under our Leverage Program. The Preferred Interests have similar risks to our common stockholders as borrowings. The Preferred Interests rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure, resulting in the Preferred Interests having certain separate voting rights, dividend and liquidation rights, and possibly other rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those granted to holders of our common stock. For example, payment of dividends and repayment of the liquidation preference of the Preferred Interests takes preference over any dividends or other payments to our common stockholders, and preferred holders are not subject to any of our expenses or losses. Furthermore, our Preferred Interests and the issuance of any additional preferred securities could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stockholders or otherwise be in your best interest. The use of leverage creates increased risk of loss and is considered a speculative investment technique. The use of leverage magnifies the potential gains and losses from an investment and increases the risk of loss of capital. To the extent that income derived by us from investments purchased with borrowed funds or the issuances of preferred stock is greater than the cost of borrowing or issuing and servicing the preferred stock, our net income will be greater than if borrowing had not been used. Conversely, if the income from investments purchased from these sources is not sufficient to cover the cost of the leverage, our net investment income will be less than if leverage had not been used, and the amount available for ultimate distribution to the holders of common stock will be reduced. The extent to which the gains and losses associated with leveraged investing are increased will generally depend on the degree of leverage employed. We may, under some circumstances, be required to dispose of investments under unfavorable market conditions in order to maintain our leverage, thus causing us to recognize a loss that might not otherwise have occurred. In the event of a sale of investments upon default under our borrowing arrangements, secured creditors will be contractually entitled to direct such sales and may be expected to do so in their interest, rather than in the interests of the holders of common stock. Holders of common stock will incur losses if the proceeds from a sale in any of the foregoing circumstances are insufficient, after payment in full of amounts due and payable on leverage, including administrative expenses, to repay such holders investments in our common stock. As a result, you could experience a total loss of your investment. Any decrease in our revenue would cause our net income to decline more than it would have had we not borrowed funds and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions on our common stock. The ability to service any debt or the Preferred Interests that we have or may have outstanding depends largely on our financial performance and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. There is no limitation on the percentage of portfolio investments that can be pledged to secure borrowings. The amount of leverage that we employ at any particular time will depend on our Advisor’s and our board of director’s assessments of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. 19 In addition to regulatory restrictions that restrict our ability to raise capital, the Leverage Program contains various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment under the Revolving Facility or require redemption of the Preferred Interests, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Under the Leverage Program, we must comply with certain financial and operational covenants. These covenants include: ·restrictions on the level of indebtedness that we are permitted to incur and the number of Preferred Interests we are permitted to have outstanding in relation to the value of our assets; ·restrictions on our ability to make distributions and other restricted payments under certain circumstances; ·restrictions on extraordinary events, such as mergers, consolidation and sales of assets; ·restrictions on our ability to incur liens and incur indebtedness; and ·maintenance of a minimum level of stockholders’ equity. In addition, by limiting the circumstances in which borrowings may occur under the Revolving Facility, the credit agreement related to the Revolving Facility, or the Credit Agreement, in effect provides for various asset coverage, credit quality and diversification limitations on our investments. Such limitations may cause us to be unable to make or retain certain potentially attractive investments or to be forced to sell investments at an inappropriate time and consequently impair our profitability or increase losses or result in adverse tax consequences. As of March 6, 2013, we were in compliance with these covenants. However our continued compliance with these covenants depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, there are no assurances that we will continue to comply with the covenants in the Credit Agreement. Failure to comply with these covenants would result in a default under the Credit Agreement which, if we were unable to obtain a waiver from the lenders thereunder, could result in an acceleration of repayments under the Credit Agreement. In addition, a default under the Credit Agreement will, in certain circumstances, require the Preferred Interests to be redeemed. As such, failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Revolving Facility also has certain “key man” provisions. For example, it is an event of default if any of Michael E. Tennenbaum, Howard M. Levkowitz or Mark K. Holdsworth ceases to be actively involved in the management of the Advisor and is not replaced with someone with comparable skills within 180 days. Further, if any two of the individuals cease to be actively involved in management of the Advisor, the administrative agent under the Credit Agreement may veto a proposed replacement for one of such individuals and may veto any of the Operating Company’s portfolio transactions that are in excess of 15% of its total assets until a replacement has been appointed to fill one of such positions. The Revolving Facility matures in July 2014 and the Preferred Interests will be subject to mandatory redemption in July 2016. Any inability to renew, extend or replace the Revolving Facility or replace the Preferred Interests could adversely impact our liquidity and ability to find new investments or maintain distributions to our stockholders. The Revolving Facility matures July 31, 2014, subject to extension by the lenders at our request for one 12-month period. Advances under the Revolving Facility generally bear interest at LIBOR plus 0.44%, subject to certain limitations. The Preferred Interests will be subject to mandatory redemption on July 31, 2016. We do not currently know whether we will renew, extend or replace the Revolving Facility upon its maturity or replace the Preferred Interests, or if we do either or both, whether we will be able to do so on terms that are as favorable as the Revolving Facility or Preferred Interests, respectively. 20 Upon the termination of the Revolving Facility, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into a replacement facility on terms that are as favorable to us, if at all. We expect that any facility we enter into will likely be on terms less favorable than currently contained in the Revolving Facility. Our ability to replace the Revolving Facility may be constrained by then-current economic conditions affecting the credit markets. In the event that we are not able to replace the Revolving Facility at the time of its maturity, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to fund new investments, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and our ability to qualify as a RIC. The creditors under the Revolving Facility have a first claim on all of the Company’s assets included in the collateral for the Revolving Facility. Lenders have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders or any preferred holders. Substantially all of our current assets have been pledged as collateral under the Revolving Facility. If an event of default occurs under the Revolving Facility, the lenders would be permitted to accelerate amounts due under the Revolving Facility and liquidate our assets to pay off amounts owed under the Revolving Facility and limitations would be imposed on us with respect to the purchase or sale of investments. Such limitations may cause us to be unable to make or retain certain potentially attractive investments or to be forced to sell investments at an inappropriate time and consequently impair our profitability or increase our losses or result in adverse tax consequences. In the event of the dissolution of the Operating Company or otherwise, if the proceeds of the Operating Company’s assets (after payment in full of obligations to any such debtors and of any liquidation preference to any holders of preferred stock) are insufficient to repay capital invested in us by the holders of the common stock, no other assets will be available for the payment of any deficiency. None of our board of directors, the Advisor, the General Partner or any of their respective affiliates, have any liability for the repayment of capital contributions made to the Company by the holders of common stock. Holders of common stock could experience a total loss of their investment in the Company. Lenders under the Revolving Facility may have a veto power over the Company’s investment policies. If a default has occurred under the Revolving Facility, the lenders under the Revolving Facility may veto changes in investment policies. The Revolving Facility also has certain limitations on unusual types of investments such as commodities, real estate and speculative derivatives, which are not part of the Company’s investment strategy or policies in any event. If we incur additional leverage, it will increase the risk of investing in shares of our common stock. The Company has indebtedness and the Preferred Interests outstanding pursuant to the Leverage Program and expects, in the future, to borrow additional amounts under the Revolving Facility and may increase the size of the Revolving Facility or enter into other borrowing arrangements. Illustration. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns, net of expenses and preferred dividends. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing below. The calculation is based on our level of leverage at December 31, 2012, which represented borrowings and preferred stock equal to 37.9% of our total assets. On such date, we also had $549.2 million in total assets; an average cost of funds of 0.92%; $208.0 million aggregate principal amount of debt and liquidation preference of the Preferred Interests outstanding; and $316.0 million of total net assets. In order to compute the ‘‘Corresponding Return to Common Stockholders,” the ‘‘Assumed Return on Portfolio (Net of Expenses Other than Interest)” is multiplied by the total value of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2012 to obtain an assumed return to us. From this amount, the interest expense and preferred dividends calculated by multiplying the interest rate and dividends of 0.92% by the $208.0 million debt and preferred stock is subtracted to determine the return available to stockholders. The return available to stockholders is then divided by the total value of our net assets at December 31, 2012 to determine the “Corresponding Return to Common Stockholders.” Actual interest payments and preferred dividends may be different. Assumed Return on Portfolio (Net of Expenses Other than Interest and Preferred Dividends) -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% Corresponding Return to Common Stockholders -17% -9% -1% 8% 16% 21 The assumed portfolio return in the table is based on SEC regulations and is not a prediction of, and does not represent, our projected or actual performance. The table also assumes that we will maintain a constant level of leverage. The amount of leverage that we use will vary from time to time. The lack of liquidity in substantially all of our investments may adversely affect our business. Our investments generally are made and will continue to be made in private companies. Substantially all of these securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will be otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded our investments. Further, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we or an affiliated manager has material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. A substantial portion of our portfolio investments may be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our board of directors and, as a result, there may be uncertainty regarding the value of our portfolio investments. The debt and equity investments that we make for which market quotations are not readily available will be valued at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our board of directors. Due to the inherent uncertainty of determining the fair value of investments that do not have a readily available market value, the fair value of our investments may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a readily available market value existed for such investments, and the differences could be material. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values ultimately realized upon the disposal of such investments. We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. General interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on current investments could also have an adverse impact on our net investment income. An increase in interest rates could decrease the value of any investments we hold that earn fixed interest rates, including subordinated loans, senior and junior secured and unsecured debt securities and loans and high-yield bonds, and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the value of our common stock. The Advisor may face conflicts in allocating investment opportunities between us and certain other entities that could adversely impact our investment returns. The Advisor and its affiliates, employees and associates currently do and in the future may manage other funds and accounts, including for other accounts in which certain holders of our common stock have investments, which we refer to as Other Advisor Accounts. Other Advisor Accounts invest in assets that are also eligible for purchase by us. Our investment policies, fee arrangements and other circumstances may vary from those of Other Advisor Accounts. Accordingly, conflicts may arise regarding the allocation of investments or opportunities among us and Other Advisor Accounts. In general, the Advisor and its affiliates will allocate investment opportunities pro rata among us and Other Advisor Accounts (assuming the investment satisfies the objectives of each) based on the amount of committed capital each then has available. The allocation of certain investment opportunities in private placements is subject to independent director approval pursuant to the terms of the co-investment exemptive order applicable to us and described below. In certain cases, investment opportunities may be made other than on a pro rata basis. For example, we may desire to retain an asset at the same time that one or more Other Advisor Accounts desire to sell it or we may not have additional capital to invest at a time Other Advisor Accounts do. When our investment allocations are made on a basis other than pro rata our investment performance may be less favorable when compared to the investment performance of Other Advisor Accounts with respect to those investments. The Advisor and its affiliates intend to allocate investment opportunities to us and Other Advisor Accounts in a manner that they believe in their judgment and based upon their fiduciary duties to be appropriate given the investment objectives, size of transaction, investable assets, alternative investments potentially available, prior allocations, liquidity, maturity, expected holding period, diversification, lender covenants and other limitations of ours and the Other Advisor Accounts. See “— Risks related to our operations as a BDC — While our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates are restricted under the 1940 Act, we have received an exemptive order from the SEC permitting certain affiliated investments subject to certain conditions. As a result, the Advisor may face conflicts of interests and investments made pursuant to the exemptive order conditions could in certain circumstances affect adversely the price paid or received by us or the availability or size of the position purchased or sold by us.” 22 There may be situations in which Other Advisor Accounts and the Company might invest in different securities issued by the same portfolio company. It is possible that if the portfolio company’s financial performance and condition deteriorates such that one or both investments are or could be impaired, the Advisor might face a conflict of interest given the difference in seniority of the respective investments. In such situations, the Advisor would review the conflict on a case-by-case basis and implement procedures consistent with its fiduciary duty to enable it to act fairly to the Other Advisor Accounts and the Company in the circumstances. Any steps by the Advisor will take into consideration the interests of each of the affected clients, the circumstances giving rise to the conflict, the procedural efficacy of various methods of addressing the conflict and applicable legal requirements. Moreover, the Advisor’s investment professionals, its Investment Committee (as defined below), its senior management and employees serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business. Accordingly, these individuals may have obligations to investors in those entities or funds, the fulfillment of which might not be in our best interests or the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, certain of the personnel employed by the Advisor or focused on our business may change in ways that are detrimental to our business. We have limited operating history as a BDC and, if the Advisor is unable to manage our investments effectively, we may be unable to achieve our investment objective. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to manage our business, which will depend, in turn, on the ability of the Advisor to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result largely will be a function of the Advisor’s investment process. Although the Advisor manages closed-end funds with similar restrictions, the 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. The Advisor’s limited experience in operating under these constraints may hinder the Advisor’s ability to help us take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objectives. For example, BDCs are prohibited from making any nonqualifying investment unless at least 70% of their total assets are primarily in qualifying investments, which are primarily securities of private or thinly-traded U.S. companies (excluding certain financial companies), cash, cash equivalents, U.S. Government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. The Advisor has limited experience investing under these constraints. In addition, the General Partner has limited experience administering a BDC. Our Advisor and its partners, officers, directors, stockholders, members, managers, employees, affiliates and agents may be subject to certain potential or actual conflicts of interest in connection with the activities of, and investments by, us. The Advisor and its affiliates may spend substantial time on other business activities, including investment management and advisory activities for entities with the same or overlapping investment objectives, investing for their own account, financial advisory services (including services for entities in which we invest), and acting as directors, officers, creditor committee members or in similar capacities. Subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act and other applicable laws, the Advisor and its affiliates and associates intend to engage in such activities and may receive compensation from third parties for their services. Subject to the same requirements, such compensation may be payable by entities in which we invest in connection with actual or contemplated investments, and the Advisor may receive fees and other compensation in connection with structuring investments which they will share. The Advisor’s management fee is based on a percentage of our total assets (other than cash or cash equivalents) and the Advisor may have conflicts of interest in connection with decisions that could affect our total assets, such as decisions as to whether to incur additional debt to increase management fees paid. Our incentive compensation may induce our Advisor to make certain investments, including speculative investments. The incentive compensation payable by us to the Advisor and the General Partner may create an incentive for the Advisor to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive compensation payable to the Advisor is determined may encourage the Advisor to increase the use of leverage or take additional risk to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor the holders of our common stock, or of securities convertible into our common stock or warrants representing rights to purchase our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock. A rise in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to higher interest rates applicable to certain of our debt investments and may accordingly result in a substantial increase in the amount of incentive compensation payable to the Advisor with respect to our cumulative investment income. Although the incentive compensation payable to the General Partner or the Advisor is subject to a total return limitation, the Advisor may have some ability to accelerate the realization of gains to obtain incentive compensation earlier than it otherwise would when it may be in our best interests to not yet realize gains. Our directors monitor our use of leverage and the Advisor’s management of our investment program in the best interests of our common stockholders. 23 We may invest, to the extent permitted by law, in the securities and instruments of other investment companies, including private funds, and, to the extent we so invest, we will bear our ratable share of any such investment company’s expenses, including management and performance fees. We will also remain obligated to pay management and incentive compensation to the Advisor with respect to the assets invested in the securities and instruments of other investment companies. With respect to each of these investments, each of our common stockholders will bear his or her share of our management and incentive compensation as well as indirectly bear the management and performance fees and other expenses of any investment companies in which we invest. We may be obligated to pay the Advisor incentive compensation payments in excess of the amounts we would have paid if such compensation was subject to clawback arrangements. The Advisor or the General Partner is entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter after January 1, 2013 in an amount equal to a percentage of our ordinary income (before deducting incentive compensation) since that date and, separately, a percentage of our realized capital gains (net of realized capital losses and unrealized depreciation) since that date, in each case subject to a cumulative total return requirement. If we pay incentive compensation and thereafter experience additional realized capital losses or unrealized capital depreciation such that we would no longer have been required to provide incentive compensation, we will not be able to recover any portion of the incentive compensation previously paid or distributed because our incentive compensation arrangements do not contain any clawback provisions. As a result, the incentive compensation could exceed 20% of our cumulative total return, depending on the timing of unrealized appreciation, net unrealized depreciation and net realized capital losses. For example, part of the incentive compensation payable or distributable by us that relates to our ordinary income is computed on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan, it is possible that accrued interest previously used in the calculation of the incentive compensation will become uncollectible. Similarly, the income component is measured against a total return limitation that includes unrealized gains. Such gains may not be realized or may be realized at a lower amount. Consequently, we may have paid incentive compensation on income in circumstances where we otherwise would not have done so and with respect to which we do not have a clawback right against the Advisor or the General Partner. The General Partner may have certain interests that conflict with the interests of the board of directors in the governance of the Operating Company. The General Partner, an affiliate of our Advisor, is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Operating Company subject to the general supervision of the board of directors including various significant matters such as the issuance of additional classes of securities of the Operating Company and the determination of the timing and amounts of distributions payable by the Operating Company. The decisions of the General Partner with respect to these and other matters may be subject to various conflicts of interest arising out of its relationship with us and its affiliates. The General Partner could be confronted with decisions where it will, directly or indirectly, have an economic incentive to place its interests or the interests of its affiliates above ours. The procedures for the appointment and removal of directors from the board of directors of the Operating Company differ from those of the Holding Company, which may result in the boards of directors of the Operating Company and the Holding Company consisting of different members. The procedures for the appointment and removal of directors from the board of directors of the Operating Company differ from those of the Holding Company, which may result in the boards of directors of the Operating Company and the Holding Company consisting of different members. If the boards of directors of the Operating Company and the Holding Company consist of different members, the objectives of the boards of directors may differ and decisions regarding the management of the Operating Company may adversely affect the Holding Company. We are dependent upon senior management personnel of the Advisor for our future success, and if the Advisor is unable to retain qualified personnel or if the Advisor loses any member of its senior management team, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed. The success of the Company is highly dependent on the financial and managerial expertise of the Advisor. The loss of one or more of the voting members of the Investment Committee could have a material adverse effect on the performance of the Company. Although the Advisor and the voting members of the Investment Committee devote a significant amount of their respective efforts to the Company, they actively manage investments for other clients and are not required to (and will not) devote all of their time to the Company’s affairs. 24 The Advisor or its affiliates may, from time to time, possess material non-public information, limiting our investment discretion. The Advisor’s investment professionals, Investment Committee or their respective affiliates may serve as directors of, or in a similar capacity with, companies in which we invest. In the event that material non-public information is obtained with respect to such companies, or we became subject to trading restrictions under the internal trading policies of those companies or as a result of applicable law or regulations, we could be prohibited for a period of time from purchasing or selling the securities of such companies, and this prohibition may have an adverse effect on us and, consequently, your interests as a stockholder. Our Advisor can resign on 60 days’ notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Our Advisor has the right, under our investment management agreement, to resign at any time upon not more than 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our Advisor resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment advisor or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our Advisor and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. We may experience fluctuations in our periodic operating results. We could experience fluctuations in our periodic operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rates payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses (including the interest rates payable on our borrowings), the dividend rates payable on preferred stock we issue, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. If we fail to maintain our status as a business development company, our business and operating flexibility could be significantly reduced. We qualify as business development companies under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies. For example, BDCs are prohibited from making any unqualifying investments unless at least 70% of their total assets are invested in qualifying investments which are primarily securities of private or thinly-traded U.S. companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Failure to comply with the requirements imposed on business development companies by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us and/or expose us to claims of private litigants. In addition, any such failure could cause an event of default under the Leverage Program, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Because we intend to distribute substantially all of our income to our stockholders to maintain our status as a RIC, we will continue to need additional capital to finance growth. If additional funds are unavailable or not available on favorable terms, our ability to grow will be impaired. In order for the Company to qualify for the tax benefits available to RICs and to avoid payment of excise taxes, we intend to distribute to our stockholders substantially all of our annual taxable income, except that we may retain certain net capital gains for reinvestment in common interests of the Operating Company, and treat such amounts as deemed distributions to its stockholders. If we elect to treat any amounts as deemed distributions, we must pay income taxes at the corporate rate on such deemed distributions on behalf of our stockholders and our stockholders will receive a tax credit for such amounts and an increase in basis. A stockholder that is not subject to U.S. federal income tax or otherwise is not required to file a U.S. federal income tax return would be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return on the appropriate form in order to claim a refund for the taxes we paid. As a result of these requirements, we will likely need to raise capital from other sources to grow our business. Unfavorable economic or capital market conditions may increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or could result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. An inability to successfully access the capital markets could limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy and could decrease our earnings, if any. 25 As a BDC, we are not able to issue senior securities unless after giving effect thereto we meet a coverage ratio of total assets, less liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, to total senior securities, which includes all of our borrowings and any outstanding preferred interests, of at least 200%. These requirements limit the amount that we may borrow. Because we will continue to need capital to grow our investment portfolio, these limitations may prevent us from incurring debt and require us to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so. While we expect we will be able to borrow and to issue additional debt securities and expect that we will be able to issue additional equity securities, we cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, as a business development company, we generally will not be permitted to issue equity securities priced below net asset value without stockholder approval. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease new investment activities and our net asset value or common stock price could decline. The highly competitive market in which we operate may limit our investment opportunities. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make. We compete with other BDCs, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Additionally, because competition for investment opportunities generally has increased among alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, those entities now invest in areas in which they have not traditionally invested. As a result of these new entrants, competition for investment opportunities intensified in recent years and may intensify further in the future. Some of our existing and potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions and valuation requirements that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this existing and potentially increasing competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors make loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. As a result of operating in such a competitive environment, we may make investments that are on better terms to our portfolio companies than what we may have originally anticipated, which may impact our return on these investments. Our board of directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval. Our board of directors has the authority to modify or waive our operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results or value of our stock. Nevertheless, the effects could adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to our investments Our investments may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We invest generally in middle-market companies primarily through leveraged loans. Risks Associated with middle-market companies. Investing in private middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks, including: ·these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral; ·they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; 26 ·they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the portfolio company and, in turn, on us; ·they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; ·our executive officers, directors and the Advisor may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies; ·changes in laws and regulations, as well as their interpretations, may adversely affect their respective businesses, financial structures or prospects; and ·they may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs. Little public information exists about private middle-market companies, and we expect to rely on the Advisor’s investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. These companies and their financial information are not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules that govern disclosures and financial controls of public companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investment. Lower Credit Quality Obligations. Most of our debt investments are likely to be in lower grade obligations. The lower grade investments in which we invest may be rated below investment grade by one or more nationally-recognized statistical rating agencies at the time of investment or may be unrated but determined by the Advisor to be of comparable quality. Debt securities rated below investment grade are commonly referred to as “junk bonds” and are considered speculative with respect to the issuer’s capacity to pay interest and repay principal. The debt that we invest in typically is not initially rated by any rating agency, but we believe that if such investments were rated, they would be below investment grade (rated lower than “Baa3” by Moody’s Investors Service, lower than “BBB-” by Fitch Ratings or lower than “BBB-” by Standard & Poor’s). We may invest without limit in debt of any rating, as well as debt that has not been rated by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization. Investment in lower grade investments involves a substantial risk of loss. Lower grade securities or comparable unrated securities are considered predominantly speculative with respect to the issuer’s ability to pay interest and principal and are susceptible to default or decline in market value due to adverse economic and business developments. The market values for lower grade debt tend to be very volatile and are less liquid than investment grade securities. For these reasons, your investment in our company is subject to the following specific risks: ·increased price sensitivity to a deteriorating economic environment; ·greater risk of loss due to default or declining credit quality; ·adverse company specific events are more likely to render the issuer unable to make interest and/or principal payments; and ·if a negative perception of the lower grade debt market develops, the price and liquidity of lower grade securities may be depressed. This negative perception could last for a significant period of time. Adverse changes in economic conditions are more likely to lead to a weakened capacity of a lower grade issuer to make principal payments and interest payments than an investment grade issuer. The principal amount of lower grade securities outstanding has proliferated in the past decade as an increasing number of issuers have used lower grade securities for corporate financing. An economic downturn could severely affect the ability of highly leveraged issuers to service their debt obligations or to repay their obligations upon maturity. Similarly, downturns in profitability in specific industries could adversely affect the ability of lower grade issuers in that industry to meet their obligations. The market values of lower grade debt tend to reflect individual developments of the issuer to a greater extent than do higher quality investments, which react primarily to fluctuations in the general level of interest rates. Factors having an adverse impact on the market value of lower grade debt may have an adverse effect on our net asset value and the market value of our common stock. In addition, we may incur additional expenses to the extent we are required to seek recovery upon a default in payment of principal of or interest on our portfolio holdings. In certain circumstances, we may be required to foreclose on an issuer’s assets and take possession of its property or operations. In such circumstances, we would incur additional costs in disposing of such assets and potential liabilities from operating any business acquired. The secondary market for lower grade debt is unlikely to be as liquid as the secondary market for more highly rated debt, a factor which may have an adverse effect on our ability to dispose of a particular instrument. There are fewer dealers in the market for lower grade securities than investment grade obligations. The prices quoted by different dealers may vary significantly and the spread between the bid and asked price is generally larger than for higher quality instruments. Under adverse market or economic conditions, the secondary market for lower grade debt could contract further, independent of any specific adverse changes in the condition of a particular issuer, and these instruments may become highly illiquid. As a result, we could find it more difficult to sell these instruments or may be able to sell the securities only at prices lower than if such instruments were widely traded. Prices realized upon the sale of such lower rated or unrated securities, under these circumstances, may be less than the prices used in calculating our net asset value. 27 Since investors generally perceive that there are greater risks associated with lower grade debt of the type in which we may invest a portion of our assets, the yields and prices of such debt may tend to fluctuate more than those for higher rated instruments. In the lower quality segments of the fixed income markets, changes in perceptions of issuers’ creditworthiness tend to occur more frequently and in a more pronounced manner than do changes in higher quality segments of the income securities market, resulting in greater yield and price volatility. Distressed Debt Securities Risk. At times, distressed debt obligations may not produce income and may require us to bear certain extraordinary expenses (including legal, accounting, valuation and transaction expenses) in order to protect and recover our investment. Therefore, our ability to achieve current income for our stockholders may be diminished. We also will be subject to significant uncertainty as to when and in what manner and for what value the distressed debt we invest in will eventually be satisfied (e.g., through a liquidation of the obligor’s assets, an exchange offer or plan of reorganization involving the distressed debt securities or a payment of some amount in satisfaction of the obligation). In addition, even if an exchange offer is made or plan of reorganization is adopted with respect to distressed debt we hold, there can be no assurance that the securities or other assets received by us in connection with such exchange offer or plan of reorganization will not have a lower value or income potential than may have been anticipated when the investment was made. Moreover, any securities received by us upon completion of an exchange offer or plan of reorganization may be restricted as to resale. As a result of our participation in negotiations with respect to any exchange offer or plan of reorganization with respect to an issuer of distressed debt, we may be restricted from disposing of such securities. Payment-in-kind Interest Risk. Our loans may contain a payment-in-kind, or PIK, interest provision. PIK investments carry additional risk as holders of these types of securities receive no cash until the cash payment date unless a portion of such securities is sold. If the issuer defaults the Company may obtain no return on its investment. The PIK interest, computed at the contractual rate specified in each loan agreement, is added to the principal balance of the loan and recorded as interest income. To avoid the imposition of corporate-level tax on us, this non-cash source of income needs to be paid out to stockholders in cash distributions or, in the event that we determine to do so and in certain cases, in shares of our common stock, even though we have not yet collected and may never collect the cash relating to the PIK interest. As a result, if we distribute taxable dividends in the form of our common stock, we may have to distribute a stock dividend to account for PIK interest even though we have not yet collected the cash. Preferred Stock Risk. To the extent we invest in preferred securities, there are special risks, including: Deferral. Preferred securities may include provisions that permit the issuer, at its discretion, to defer distributions for a stated period without any adverse consequences to the issuer. If we own a preferred security that is deferring its distributions, we may be required to report income for tax purposes although we have not yet received such income. Subordination. Preferred securities are subordinated to bonds and other debt instruments in a company’s capital structure in terms of priority to corporate income and liquidation payments, and therefore will be subject to greater credit risk than more senior debt instruments. Liquidity. Preferred securities may be substantially less liquid than many other securities, such as common stocks or U.S. Government securities. Limited Voting Rights. Generally, preferred security holders have no voting rights with respect to the issuing company unless preferred dividends have been in arrears for a specified number of periods, at which time the preferred security holders may elect a number of directors to the issuer’s board. Generally, once all the arrearages have been paid, the preferred security holders no longer have voting rights. Equity Security Risk. We may have exposure to equity securities. Although equity securities have historically generated higher average total returns than fixed-income securities over the long term, equity securities also have experienced significantly more volatility in those returns. The equity securities that we acquire may fail to appreciate and may decline in value or become worthless. Hedging Transactions. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize currency exchange rate risks or interest rate risks, but we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. Additionally, engaging in certain hedging transactions could result in adverse tax consequences, e.g. giving rise to income that does not qualify for the 90% annual gross income requirement applicable to RICs. 28 Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Over the past several years, the U.S. has been in a prolonged recessionary period followed by slower than historical rates of GDP growth and may return to a recessionary period or continue to a period of slow growth. Many other economies are currently in a prolonged recessionary period. Although these conditions have ameliorated to some degree, they could continue for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. In addition, several EU countries, continue to face budget issues, some of which may have negative long-term effects for the economies of those countries and other EU countries. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we or one of our affiliates may have structured our interest in such portfolio company as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt holding as equity and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to claims of other creditors. We may not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. We do not generally intend to take controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. To the extent that we do not hold a controlling equity interest in a portfolio company, we are subject to the risk that such portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of such portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity for the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company, and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. In addition, we may not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. The portfolio companies we invest in usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share any distributions on an equal and ratable basis with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. Additionally, certain loans that we make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company’s remaining assets, if any. 29 The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral; and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected. We may also make unsecured loans to portfolio companies, meaning that such loans will not benefit from any interest in collateral of such companies. Liens on such portfolio companies’ collateral, if any, will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under its outstanding secured debt and may secure certain future debt that is permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under its secured loan agreements. The holders of obligations secured by such liens will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of such collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of such collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of such collateral would be sufficient to satisfy our unsecured loan obligations after payment in full of all secured loan obligations. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay the outstanding secured loan obligations, then our unsecured claims would rank equally with the unpaid portion of such secured creditors’ claims against the portfolio company’s remaining assets, if any. Our portfolio companies may prepay loans, which prepayment may reduce stated yields in the future if capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields. Certain of the loans we make are prepayable at any time, some of them of them at no premium to par. We cannot predict when such loans may be prepaid. Whether a loan is prepaid will depend both on the continued positive performance of the portfolio company and the existence of favorable financing market conditions that permit such company to replace existing financing with less expensive capital. As market conditions change frequently, it is unknown when, and if, this may be possible for each portfolio company. In the case of some of these loans, having the loan prepaid early may reduce the achievable yield for the Company in the future below the current yield disclosed for our portfolio if the capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments in order to: (1) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (2) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or (3) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our initial investment. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. Our failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make such follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities, because we are inhibited by compliance with BDC requirements or because we desire to maintain our tax status. Our investments in foreign securities may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. Our investment strategy contemplates that a portion of our investments may be in securities of foreign companies in order to provide diversification or to complement our U.S. investments, although we are required generally to invest at least 70% of our assets in companies organized and having their principal place of business within the U.S. and its possessions. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. These risks may be more pronounced for portfolio companies located or operating primarily in emerging markets, whose economies, markets and legal systems may be less developed. 30 Although it is anticipated that most of our investments will be denominated in U.S. dollars, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency may change in relation to the U.S. dollar. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that we will, in fact, hedge currency risk or, that if we do, such strategies will be effective. As a result, a change in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our profitability. Risks related to our operations as a BDC While our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted under the 1940 Act, we have received an exemptive order from the SEC permitting certain affiliated investments subject to certain conditions. As a result, our Advisor may face conflict of interests and investments made pursuant to the exemptive order conditions could in certain circumstances adversely affect the price paid or received by us or the availability or size of the position purchased or sold by us. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain “joint” transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. We are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any person who owns more than 25% of our voting securities and from or to certain of that person’s affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. The Advisor and the funds managed by the Advisor have received an exemption from certain SEC regulations prohibiting transactions with affiliates. The exemptive order requires that certain procedures be followed prior to making an investment subject to the order and such procedures could in certain circumstances adversely affect the price paid or received by us or the availability or size of the position purchased or sold by us. In addition, the Advisor may face conflicts of interests in making investments pursuant to the exemptive order. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC may limit our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may in the future require a substantial amount of capital. We may acquire additional capital from the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or from the additional issuance of senior securities (including debt and preferred stock). However, we may not be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. Our board of directors may decide to issue common stock to finance our operations rather than issuing debt or other senior securities. As a BDC, we are generally not able to issue our common stock at a price below net asset value without first obtaining required approvals from our stockholders and our independent directors. If our common stock trades at a discount to net asset value, those restrictions could adversely affect our ability to raise equity capital. Except in connection with the exercise of warrants or the conversion of convertible securities, in any such case the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price, that in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities at the relevant time. We may also make rights offerings to our stockholders at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and such stockholders may experience dilution. We may only issue senior securities up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act permits us to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such issuance or incurrence. If our assets decline in value and we fail to satisfy this test or any stricter test under the terms of our leverage instruments, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our investments and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales or repayment may be disadvantageous, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Changes in the laws or regulations governing our business or the business of our portfolio companies, or changes in the interpretations thereof or newly enacted legislation and regulations, and any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with these laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition of us or our portfolio companies. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state governments, as well as the stock exchange in which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and The Nasdaq Global Select Market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations. Changes in the laws or regulations or the interpretations of the laws and regulations that govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including our loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply, or we might have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and may be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities. While the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on us and our portfolio companies may not be known for an extended period of time, the Dodd-Frank Act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals directed at the financial services industry or affecting taxation that are proposed or pending in the U.S. Congress, may negatively impact the operations, cash flows or financial condition of us or our portfolio companies, impose additional costs on us or our portfolio companies, intensify the regulatory supervision of us or our portfolio companies or otherwise adversely affect our business or the business of our portfolio companies. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could be precluded from investing in certain assets or could be required to dispose of certain assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a BDC, we are prohibited from acquiring any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. As of December 31, 2012, approximately $45.8 million, or approximately 8.4%, of our total assets were not “qualifying assets.” If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we will be prohibited from investing in additional non-qualifying assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position) or could require us to dispose of investments at inopportune times in order to come into compliance with the 1940 Act. If we need to dispose of these investments quickly, it may be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. For example, we may have difficulty in finding a buyer and, even if a buyer is found, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss. We will be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax on all of our income if we are unable to qualify as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Although we are currently qualified as a RIC, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain RIC status. To obtain and maintain RIC status and be relieved of U.S. federal income taxes on income and gains distributed to its stockholders, we generally must meet the annual distribution, source-of-income and asset diversification requirements described below. In addition, our Leverage Program prohibits us from making distributions if doing so causes us to fail to maintain the asset coverage ratios stipulated by the 1940 Act or the Leverage Program. To qualify as a RIC under the Code, we generally must meet certain source-of-income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and net short-term capital gain in excess of net long-term capital loss, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. Since we use debt financing and have Preferred Interests outstanding, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements and other financial covenants under the terms of the Leverage Program, and we are, in some circumstances, also subject to similar requirements under the 1940 Act. The requirements could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we generally must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because we anticipate that most of our investments will be in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. 32 If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and become subject to corporate-level income tax, the resulting corporate-level income taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or PIK interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due in the future, often only at the end of the loan. Such original issue discount, which could be significant relative to our overall investment activities, or increases in loan balances as a result of PIK arrangements are generally included in our taxable income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we do not receive in cash. Since we may recognize taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such income, if we invest to a substantial extent in non-cash paying debt instruments we may have difficulty meeting the tax requirement to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and net short-term capital gain in excess of net long-term capital loss, if any, to maintain our status as a RIC. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. There is a risk that you may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time and a portion of our distributions may be a return of capital. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by the impact of one or more of the risk factors described in this filing. Due to the asset coverage test applicable to us under the 1940 Act as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. Under current SEC rules, we are required to report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations of the SEC. We are required to review on an annual basis our internal control over financial reporting, and on a quarterly and annual basis to evaluate and disclose changes in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we are incurring additional expenses that may negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to make distributions. This process results in a diversion of management’s time and attention. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations, and we may not be able to ensure that the process is effective or that our internal control over financial reporting is or will be effective in a timely manner. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 