Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making a decision to invest in our securities. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results to date. Because we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to consummate an initial business combination with one or more operating businesses in the business services industry. You have a limited basis to evaluate whether we will be able to identify an attractive target business. We will not generate any revenues until, if at all, after the consummation of an initial business combination. We cannot assure you as to when, or if, an initial business combination will occur. We may not be able to consummate an initial business combination within the required time frame, in which case we will be required to dissolve and liquidate. We must consummate a business combination with a fair market value at least equal to 80% of the balance in the trust account (less the deferred underwriting discounts and commissions and taxes payable) at the time of the acquisition within 18 months after the completion of the Offering (or within 24 months after the completion of the Offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement is executed within 18 months after the completion of the Offering and the initial business combination relating thereto is not consummated within such 18-month period). If we fail to consummate an initial business combination within the required time frame, we have agreed with the trustee to promptly initiate procedures to dissolve and liquidate our assets. Our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of an initial business combination. 13 Table of Contents If we are required to dissolve and liquidate without consummating an initial business combination, our public stockholders will receive less than $8.00 per share upon distribution of the funds held in the trust account and our warrants will expire with no value. If we are unable to consummate an initial business combination and are required to dissolve and liquidate our assets, the per share liquidation amount will be less than $8.00, not taking into consideration interest income earned on the trust account, because of the expenses related to the Offering, our general and administrative expenses, and the anticipated costs associated with seeking an initial business combination. Furthermore, the warrants will expire with no value if we dissolve and liquidate before the consummation of an initial business combination. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. Identifying, executing and realizing attractive returns on business combinations is highly competitive and involves a high degree of uncertainty. We expect to encounter intense competition for potential target businesses from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, operating businesses, and other entities and individuals, both foreign and domestic. Many of these competitors are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and consummating business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. Furthermore, over the past several years, other “blank check” companies have been formed, and a number of such companies have grown in size, for the purpose of investing in the business services and related industries. Additional investment funds and blank check companies with similar investment objectives as ours may be formed in the future by other unrelated parties and these funds and companies may have substantially more capital and may have access to and utilize additional financing on more attractive terms. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses with which we could combine using the net proceeds of the Offering, together with additional financing, if available, our ability to compete in combining with certain sizeable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing a business combination with certain target businesses. In addition: • the requirement that we obtain stockholder approval of a business combination may delay or prevent the consummation of an initial business combination within the 18-month or 24-month time periods; • the requirement that we prepare audited and perhaps interim-unaudited financial information to be included in the proxy statement to be sent to stockholders in connection with such business combination may delay or prevent the consummation of a transaction; • the conversion of common stock held by our public stockholders into cash may reduce the resources available to us to fund an initial business combination; • our outstanding warrants, and the dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses; and • the requirement to acquire assets or an operating business that have a fair market value at least equal to 80% of the balance in the trust account (less the deferred underwriting discounts and commissions and taxes payable) at the time of the initial business combination could require us to acquire several assets or closely related operating businesses at the same time, all of which sales would be contingent on the closings of the other sales, which could make it more difficult to consummate the initial business combination. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in consummating an initial business combination on favorable terms or at all. In the event that we are unable to consummate an initial business combination, we may seek to acquire contemporaneously multiple operating companies whose collective fair market value is at least equal to 80% of the balance in the trust account (less the deferred underwriting discounts and commissions and taxes payable) at the time of those transactions. To the extent that our initial business combination entails the contemporaneous combination with more than one operating business, we may not have sufficient resources, financial or otherwise, to effectively and efficiently conduct adequate due diligence and negotiate definitive agreements on terms most favorable to our stockholders. In addition, because our initial business combination may be with different sellers, we will need to convince such sellers to agree that the purchase of their businesses is contingent upon the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions. Because there are numerous “blank check” companies similar to ours seeking to consummate an initial business combination, it may be more difficult for us to consummate an initial business combination. Based upon publicly available information, as of February 29, 2008, approximately 154 similarly structured “blank check” companies have completed initial public offerings in the United States since the start of 2004 and 54 others have filed registration statements. Of the “blank check” companies that have completed initial public offerings, 46 companies have 14 Table of Contents consummated a business combination, while 25 other companies have announced that they have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential business combinations but have not yet consummated such business combinations. Eight companies have failed to complete previously announced business combinations and have announced their pending dissolution and return of trust proceeds to stockholders. Accordingly, the remaining 75 “blank check” companies that we estimate to have raised approximately $13.8 billion that is currently held in trust accounts, and potentially an additional 54 “blank check” companies that have filed registration statements to raise approximately $11.3 billion, will be seeking to enter into business combinations. While some of these companies have specific industries in which they must identify a potential target business, a number of these companies may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. As a result, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business combination which, in turn, will result in an increased demand for privately held companies in these industries. Further, the fact that 46 “blank check” companies have consummated a business combination, 25 other companies have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential business combinations, and eight companies have failed to complete a business combination, may be an indication that there are a limited number of attractive target businesses available or that many target businesses may not be inclined to enter into a business combination with a publicly held “blank check” company. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate an initial business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target operating business within the required time periods, the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will require us to dissolve and liquidate. We may have insufficient resources to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of consummating an initial business combination. We have reserved $500,000 from the proceeds of the Offering and will have available interest earned of up to $1,500,000, after tax, on the balance of the trust account to cover our working capital requirements for the next 24 months, including expenses incurred in connection with an initial business combination, based upon our executive officers’ and directors’ estimate of the amount required for these purposes. This estimate may prove inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with an initial business combination or if we expend a significant portion of the available proceeds in pursuit of a business combination that is not consummated. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to cover our expenses, we may be required to obtain additional financing from our executive officers, our directors, our existing stockholders or third parties. Such additional financing may include loans from third parties to cover the costs associated with the search and consummation of an initial business combination, although we currently have no intention of obtaining third party loans. We would seek to have any third party lenders waive any claim to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of the public stockholders. Mr. Perfall and Mr. Burke would be personally liable to reimburse the trust account for any claims made by such lenders to the extent that the payment of any debts or obligations owed to such lenders actually reduces the amount in the trust account. We may not be able to obtain additional financing. None of our executive officers, directors or existing stockholders are obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be required to dissolve and liquidate prior to consummating an initial business combination. Under Delaware law, our dissolution and liquidation requires the approval of the holders of a majority of the shares of our outstanding common stock, without which we will not be able to dissolve and liquidate and distribute our assets to our public stockholders. We have agreed with the trustee to promptly adopt a plan of dissolution and liquidation and initiate procedures for our dissolution and liquidation if we do not consummate an initial business combination within 18 months after completion of the Offering (or within 24 months after the completion of the Offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle, or definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after completion of the Offering and the initial business combination related thereto has not yet been consummated within such 24-month period). However, pursuant to Delaware General Corporation Law, our dissolution requires the affirmative vote of stockholders owning a majority of our then outstanding common stock. Soliciting the vote of our stockholders will require the preparation of preliminary and definitive proxy statements, which will need to be filed with the Commission and could be subject to their review. This review process could take up to several months. As a result, distribution of our assets to our public stockholders could be subject to a considerable delay. Furthermore, we may need to postpone the stockholders meeting, resolicit our stockholders, or amend our plan of dissolution and liquidation to obtain the required stockholder approval, all of which would further delay the distribution of our assets and result in increased costs. If we are not able to obtain approval from a majority of our stockholders, we will not be able to dissolve and liquidate and we will not be able to distribute funds from our trust account to holders of our common stock sold in the Offering and these funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and liquidation and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for such a plan. However, we cannot assure you that our stockholders will approve our dissolution in a timely manner or will ever approve our dissolution. As a result, we cannot provide investors with assurances of a specific time frame for the liquidation 15 Table of Contents and distribution of the amount in the trust account to our public stockholders. If our stockholders do not approve a plan of dissolution and liquidation and the funds remain in the trust account for an indeterminate amount of time, we may be considered to be an investment company. Please see the risk factor entitled “—If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to consummate an initial business combination or operate over the near term or long term in our intended manner.” A stockholder who abstains from voting will lose the ability to receive a pro rata share of the funds in the trust account if we consummate an initial business combination. Prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we will submit the transaction to our stockholders for approval, even if the nature of the acquisition is such as would not ordinarily require stockholder approval under applicable state law. If we achieve a quorum for the meeting, only stockholders who exercise their right to vote will affect the outcome of the stockholder vote. Abstentions are not considered to be voting “for” or “against” the transaction. Any stockholder who abstains from voting would be bound by the decision of the majority of stockholders who do vote. As a result, an abstaining shareholder will lose the ability to receive a pro rata share of the trust account, including accrued interest (net of taxes payable on such interest income and after release of up to $1.5 million of interest income, after tax, to fund working capital requirements), which would be available to a shareholder that votes against the initial business combination and exercises its conversion rights. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per share liquidation price received by our public stockholders would be less than approximately $7.88 per share. Placing the funds in a trust account may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, providers of financing, if any, prospective target businesses and other entities with whom we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, we are not obligated to obtain a waiver from any potential creditor or potential target business and there is no guarantee that they will agree to provide such a waiver, which is not a condition to our doing business with anyone. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refuses to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by our executive officers and directors to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or if our executive officers and directors are unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our executive officers and directors would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us and would enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver only if they believed that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. We will seek to secure waivers that we believe are valid and enforceable, but it is possible that a waiver may later be found to be invalid or unenforceable. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts, or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to claims that would take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per share liquidation price could be less than approximately $7.88, plus interest, due to claims of such creditors or other entities. If we are unable to consummate an initial business combination and are required to dissolve and liquidate, each of Messrs. Perfall and Burke has agreed to reimburse us for our debts to any vendor for services rendered or products sold to us, potential target businesses or to providers of financing, if any, in all cases only to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust account. Based on representations made to us by Messrs. Perfall and Burke, we currently believe that they are of substantial means and capable of funding a shortfall in our trust account to satisfy their foreseeable indemnification obligations. However, we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. We cannot assure you that Messrs. Perfall and Burke will be able to satisfy those obligations or that the proceeds in the trust account will not be reduced by such claims. In the event that the proceeds in the trust account are reduced and Messrs. Perfall and Burke assert that they are unable to satisfy their obligations or that they have no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our independent directors would determine whether we would take legal action against Messrs. Perfall and Burke to enforce their indemnification obligations. Furthermore, creditors may seek to interfere with the distribution of the trust account pursuant to federal or state creditor and bankruptcy laws, which could delay the actual distribution of such funds or reduce the amount ultimately available for distribution to our public stockholders. If we are required to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, the funds held in the trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, the per share liquidation distribution would be less than the initial $7.88 per share held in the trust account. 16 Table of Contents Our independent directors may decide not to enforce Messrs. Perfall and Burke’s indemnification obligations, resulting in a reduction in the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders. Each of Messrs. Perfall and Burke has agreed to reimburse us for our debts to any vendor for services rendered or products sold to us, potential target businesses or to providers of financing, if any, in each case only to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust account. In the event that the proceeds in the trust account are reduced and Messrs. Perfall and Burke assert that they are unable to satisfy their obligations or that they have no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our independent directors would determine whether we would take legal action against Messrs. Perfall and Burke to enforce their indemnification obligations. While we currently expect that our independent directors would take action on our behalf against Messrs. Perfall and Burke to enforce their indemnification obligations, it is possible that our independent directors in exercising their business judgment may choose not to do so in a particular instance. If our independent directors choose not to enforce Messrs. Perfall and Burke’s indemnification obligations, the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders may be reduced and the per share liquidation distribution could be less than the initial $7.88 per share held in the trust account. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them in our dissolution. We have agreed with the trustee to promptly adopt a plan of dissolution and liquidation and initiate procedures for our dissolution and liquidation if we do not consummate an initial business combination within 18 months after the completion of the Offering (or within 24 months after the completion of the Offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement is executed within 18 months after the completion of the Offering and the business combination relating thereto is not consummated within such 24-month period). Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions (but not more) received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. If we are required to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after our dissolution, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors and/or complying with certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law with respect to our dissolution and liquidation. We cannot assure that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. A significant portion of working capital could be expended in pursuing business combinations that are not consummated. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. In addition, we may opt to make down payments or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with structuring and negotiating a business combination. If a decision is made not to consummate a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point in connection with the abandoned transaction, potentially including down payments or exclusivity or similar fees, will not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate an initial business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control, such as if our public stockholders holding 20% or more of our common stock vote against an initial business combination even though a majority of our public stockholders approve the transaction. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and combine with another business. 17 Table of Contents We may issue additional shares of our capital stock, including through convertible debt securities, to consummate an initial business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and may cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. Immediately after the Offering (assuming no exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option), there were 68,875,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation of shares issuable upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the underwriters’ over-allotment option) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitments as of the date of the Offering to issue any additional securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock, preferred stock or a combination of both, including through convertible debt securities, as consideration for or to finance a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of preferred stock, including upon conversion of any debt securities may: • significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in the Offering; • cause a change in control which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards, if any, and result in the resignation or removal of our current executive officers and directors; and • adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and warrants. The underwriting agreement prohibits us, prior to an initial business combination, from issuing additional units, additional common stock, preferred stock, additional warrants, or any options or other securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock or preferred stock which participates in any manner in the proceeds of the trust account, or which votes as a class with the common stock on a business combination. We may issue additional shares of our common stock as consideration for or to finance an initial business combination, which may dilute the equity interest of our stockholders. We may choose to acquire all or part of a target business through a share for share exchange or to finance a portion of the initial business combination consideration by issuing additional shares of our common stock. Such additional equity may be issued at a price below the then current trading price for shares of our common stock, resulting in dilution of the equity interest of our then current public stockholders. At this time, no financing arrangements have been entered into or are contemplated with any third parties to raise any additional funds to finance an initial business combination through the sale of additional equity or otherwise. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to consummate an initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of the Offering will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, since we have not yet identified or approached any prospective target businesses, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular business combination. If the net proceeds of the Offering prove to be insufficient, because of the size of the initial business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of target businesses, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we may be required to seek additional financing through the issuance of equity or debt securities or other financing arrangements. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Although we have no current plans to do so, if we were to incur a substantial amount of debt to finance a business combination, such incurrence of debt may: • lead to default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • cause an acceleration of our obligation to repay the debt, even if we make all principal and interest payments when due, if we breach the covenants contained in the terms of any debt documents, such as covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves, without a waiver or renegotiation of such covenants; • create an obligation to repay immediately all principal and accrued interest, if any, upon demand to the extent any debt securities are payable on demand; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry, and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; 18 Table of Contents • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy or other purposes; and place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we may be compelled to restructure or abandon that particular business combination and seek alternative target businesses. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business or businesses. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of our combined business or businesses. None of our executive officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after the consummation of an initial business combination. Any desire by our current executive officers and directors to remain with us following an initial business combination may result in a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interests. Messrs. Perfall, Burke and Fletchall may desire to continue to be associated with us following an initial business combination. If any or all of them decide to do so, the personal and financial interests of our current executive officers and directors may influence them to condition a business combination on their retention by us, following the business combination and to view more favorably target companies that offer them a continuing relationship, either as an officer, director, consultant, or other third-party service provider, after the business combination. Messrs. Perfall, Burke and Fletchall, in their capacity as our executive officers, could be negotiating the terms and conditions of the business combination on our behalf at the same time that they, as individuals, were negotiating the terms and conditions related to an employment, consulting or other agreement with representatives of the potential business combination candidate. As a result, there may be a conflict of interest in the negotiation of the terms and conditions related to such continuing relationships as our executive officers and directors may be influenced by their personal and financial interests rather than the best interests of our public stockholders. If we acquire a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that our current executive officers and directors would remain with us, if they choose to do so. If an initial business combination were structured as a merger in which the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a business combination, it may be less likely that our current management would remain with the combined company because control of the company would rest with the target company and not our current management, unless otherwise negotiated as part of the transaction in the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. Our executive officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our executive officers and directors are not required to, and will not, commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full-time employees prior to the consummation of an initial business combination. Each of our executive officers is engaged in several other business endeavors and they are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. Mr. Perfall continues to serve as CEO and as a director of AHL Services. Mr. Burke and Mr. Fletchall continue to serve as non-executive officers of AHL Services. Each of Mr. Perfall, Mr. Burke and Mr. Fletchall ceased to be an employee of AHL Services as of December 31, 2006. Our outside directors also serve as officers and board members for other entities, including, without limitation, Mr. Schwieter’s service as Vice Chairman of Perseus, LLC, Mr. Broshy’s service as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of inVentiv Health and Mr. Kay’s role as Chief Financial Officer of MMA Financial. If our executive officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs in excess of their current commitment levels, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs which may have a negative impact on our ability to consummate an initial business combination. Our executive officers and directors are, and may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in the business services industry and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Following the completion of the Offering and until we consummate an initial business combination, we intend to engage in the business of identifying and combining with one or more prospective target businesses with an operating business in the business services industry. Our executive officers and directors are, or may in the future become, affiliated with entities that are engaged in a similar business. For example, Mr. Perfall serves as CEO and a director, of AHL Services, a private equity sponsored provider of marketing support services. Mr. Burke and Mr. Fletchall continue to serve as non-executive officers of AHL Services. Each of Mr. Perfall, Mr. Burke and Mr. Fletchall ceased to be an employee of AHL Services. as of December 31, 2006. Additionally, Union Street Capital Management, LLC, our majority stockholder and a limited liability company of 19 Table of Contents which each of our executive officers are members, expect to execute a consulting agreement with AHL Services, with an initial term beginning on January 1, 2007 and extending through June 30, 2007 with an option for an extension by mutual agreement of the parties. AHL Services., and other firms with which our executive officers and directors are affiliated may compete with us for investment and acquisition opportunities in such industries. Mr. Schwieters is the Vice Chairman of Perseus, LLC, a merchant bank and private equity fund management company, and is a director of several public companies. Mr. Broshy is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of inVentiv Health, a provider of outsourced clinical, communications and commercial services to the pharmaceutical and life sciences industry, and is a member of the board of directors of a publicly-traded biotechnology company. Mr. Kay is the Managing Director of Navigant Consulting, a consulting firm providing litigation, financial, healthcare, energy and operational consulting services to government agencies, legal counsel and large companies and serves on a number of boards of directors of public and private companies. In each case, our executive officers’ and directors’ existing directorships may give rise to fiduciary obligations that take priority over any fiduciary obligation owed to us. If any of our executive officers and directors become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which he or she is or may be affiliated, due to existing and potential future affiliations with these and other entities, they may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us. In this connection, our executive officers and directors have agreed to present to us for consideration, prior to presentation to any other person or entity, any suitable opportunity to acquire all or substantially all of the outstanding equity securities of, or otherwise acquire or acquire control of an operating business in the business services industry until the earlier of the consummation by us of an initial business combination, the distribution of the trust account, or until such time as the executive officer or director ceases to be an officer or director, provided that the presentation of such opportunity to us shall in each case be subject to any fiduciary duty of such executive officer or director arising from a pre-existing fiduciary relationship. In addition, Messrs.Perfall, Burke and Fletchall have agreed to present opportunities to us involving a potential target company whose enterprise value is at least equal to 80% of the balance of the trust account (less the deferred underwriting discounts and commissions and taxes payable) at the time of the acquisition, again subject to the obligations of any pre-existing fiduciary duty. None of our executive officers or directors has ever been associated with a publicly held blank check company. None of our executive officers or directors has ever served as an officer or director of a development stage public company with the business purpose of raising funds to acquire a company. Accordingly, you may not be able to adequately evaluate their ability to successfully consummate an initial business combination through a blank check public company or a company with a structure similar to ours. Because each of our executive officers and directors will directly or indirectly own shares of our common stock that will not participate in liquidating distributions, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for an initial business combination. A. Clayton Perfall, our Chief Executive Officer and President, Brian H. Burke, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and Matthew C. Fletchall, our Vice President of Corporate Development and Secretary, each indirectly will own shares of our common stock through ownership in Union Street Capital Management, LLC. In addition, our directors will own shares of our common stock. Upon our dissolution and liquidation, none of Union Street Capital Management, LLC or our executive officers or directors will have the right to receive distributions from the trust account with respect to shares of our common stock they acquired prior to the completion of the Offering, and it and they would lose its and their entire investment in us were this to occur. Therefore, our executive officers’ and directors’ personal and financial interests may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting target businesses and consummating an initial business combination in a timely manner. This may also result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. Our executive officers’ and directors’ interests in obtaining reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Our executive officers and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount of available proceeds not deposited in the trust account, unless the initial business combination is consummated. The amount of available proceeds is based upon our executive officers’ and directors’ estimate of the amount needed to fund our operations for the next 24 months and consummate an initial business combination. This estimate may prove to be inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment in connection with an initial business combination or pay exclusivity or similar fees or if we expend a significant portion of the available proceeds in pursuit of an initial business combination that is not consummated. The financial interest of our executive officers and directors could influence their motivation in selecting a target and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in our public stockholders’ best interest. 20 Table of Contents We may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships with entities that may be affiliated with our executive officers, directors or existing stockholders which may raise potential conflicts of interest. In light of our executive officers’, directors’ and existing stockholders’ involvement with other companies and our intent to consummate an initial business combination, we may decide to acquire one or more businesses affiliated with our executive officers, directors or existing stockholders. Certain of our executive officers and directors, identified below, are affiliated with the following entities that are active in the business services industry: Mr. Perfall with AHL Services., and inVentiv Health; Mr. Burke and Mr. Fletchall with AHL Services.; Mr. Schwieters with Perseus, LLC, Mr. Broshy with inVentiv Health and Mr. Kay with Navigant Consulting. Our executive officers, directors and existing stockholders are not currently aware of any specific opportunities to consummate a business combination with any entities with which they are affiliated, and there have been no preliminary discussions concerning a business combination with any such entity or entities. Although we will not be specifically focusing on, or targeting, any transaction with any affiliated entities, we would consider such a transaction if we determined that such affiliated entity met our criteria for a business combination. Despite our agreement to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm regarding the fairness to our stockholders from a financial point of view of a business combination with one or more businesses affiliated with our existing stockholders, or our current executive officers and directors, potential conflicts of interest still may exist and, as a result, the terms of the initial business combination may not be as advantageous to our public stockholders as they would be absent any conflicts of interest. We will not generally be required to obtain a determination of the fair market value of a target business or target businesses from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm. Our initial business combination must be with one or more operating businesses whose fair market value is at least equal to 80% of the balance in the trust account (less the deferred underwriting discounts and commissions and taxes payable) at the time of such combination. The fair market value of such business or businesses will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential sales, earnings, cash flow and book value. We have agreed to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., which we refer to as NASD, with respect to the satisfaction of such criteria if one of our executive officers or directors is affiliated with that target business. However, in other situations, we will not be required to obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value if our board of directors independently determines that the target business or businesses have sufficient fair market value. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from trading on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. We intend that our units, shares of common stock and warrants, which we refer to as our Securities, will be listed on the American Stock Exchange on or promptly after the date of this prospectus. We cannot assure you that our Securities will be, or will continue to be, listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future, prior to a business combination. Additionally, in connection with our initial business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange and we are not able to list our Securities on another national securities exchange, we expect our securities could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or the “pink sheets.” As a result, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our Securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our Securities; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, which is a federal statute, prevents or preempts the states from regulating the sale of certain securities, which are referred to as “covered securities.” Since our units, and eventually our common stock and warrants will be listed on the American Stock Exchange, our units, common stock and warrants will be covered securities. Although the states are preempted from regulating the sale of our securities, the federal statute does allow the states to investigate companies if there is a suspicion of fraud, and if there is a finding of fraudulent activity, then the states can regulate or bar the sale of covered securities in a particular case. While we are not aware of a state having used these powers to prohibit or restrict the sale of securities issued by blank check companies, certain state securities regulators view 21 Table of Contents blank check companies unfavorably and might use these powers, or threaten to use these powers, to hinder the sale of securities of blank check companies in their states. Further, if we were no longer listed on the American Stock Exchange, our securities would not be covered securities and we would be subject to regulation in each state in which we offer our securities. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our Securities may be adversely affected. If at any time our Securities are no longer listed on the American Stock Exchange or another exchange or we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less or our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Securities Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for these “penny stocks,” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions and trading activity in our Securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our Securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our Securities. We may only be able to consummate one business combination, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of services or products. The net proceeds from the Offering and the private placement, after reserving $500,000 of the proceeds for our operating expenses, provided us with approximately $94,800,000 (or $108,750,000 if the over-allotment option is exercised in full), excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions, which we may use to consummate an initial business combination. Although we are permitted to consummate an initial business combination with more than one target business, we currently intend to consummate our initial business combination with a single operating business whose fair market value is at least equal to 80% of the balance in the trust account (less the deferred underwriting discounts and commissions and taxes payable) at the time of the initial business combination. If we acquire more than one target business, additional issues would arise, including possible complex accounting issues, which would include generating pro forma financial statements reflecting the operations of several target businesses as if they had been combined, and numerous logistical issues, which would include attempting to coordinate the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closing, with multiple target businesses. In addition, we would be exposed to the risk that conditions to closings with respect to the initial business combination with one or more of the target businesses would not be satisfied, bringing the fair market value of the initial business combination below the required threshold of 80% of the balance in the trust account (less the deferred underwriting discounts and commissions and taxes payable). As a result, we are likely to consummate an initial business combination with only a single operating business, which may have only a limited number of services or products. The resulting lack of diversification may: • result in our being dependent upon the performance of a single operating business; • result in our being dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of services, processes or products; and • subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to an initial business combination. In this case we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to consummate several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry so as to diversify risks and offset losses. Further, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of the initial target business or businesses we acquire. Any attempt to consummate more than one transaction as our initial business combination will make it more difficult to consummate our initial business combination. In the event that we are unable to identify a single operating company with which to consummate an initial business combination, we may seek to combine contemporaneously with multiple operating companies whose collective fair market value is at least equal to 80% of the balance in the trust account (less the deferred underwriting discounts and commissions and taxes payable) at the time of those combinations. Business combinations involve a number of special risks, including diversion of management’s attention, legal, financial, accounting and due diligence expenses, and general risks that transactions will not 22 Table of Contents be consummated. To the extent we try to consummate more than one transaction at the same time, all of these risks will be exacerbated, especially in light of the small number of our executive officers and directors and our limited financial and other resources. Consummating our initial business combination through more than one transaction likely would result in increased costs as we would be required to conduct a due diligence investigation of more than one business and negotiate the terms of the initial business combination with multiple entities. In addition, due to the difficulties involved in consummating multiple business combinations concurrently, our attempt to consummate our initial business combination in this manner would increase the chance that we would be unable to successfully consummate our initial business combination in a timely manner. In addition, if our initial business combination entails simultaneous transactions with different entities, each entity will need to agree that its transaction is contingent upon the simultaneous closing of the other transactions, which may make it more difficult for us, or delay our ability, to consummate the initial business combination. As a result, if we attempt to consummate our initial business combination in the form of multiple transactions, there is an increased risk that we will not be in a position to consummate some or all of those transactions, which could result in our failure to satisfy the requirements for an initial business combination and force us to liquidate. We may combine with a target business with a history of poor operating performance and there is no guarantee that we will be able to improve the operating performance of that target business. Due to the competition for business combination opportunities, we may combine with a target business with a history of poor operating performance if we believe that target business has attractive attributes that can take advantage of trends in the business services industry. A business with a history of poor operating performance may be characterized by, among other things, several years of financial losses, a smaller market share than other businesses operating in a similar geographical area or industry or a low return on capital compared to other businesses operating in the same industry. In determining whether one of these companies would be an appropriate target, we would base our decision primarily on the fair market value of such a company. We would consider, among other things, its operating income, its current cash flows and its potential to generate cash in the future, the value of its current contracts and our assessment of its ability to attract and retain new customers. However, combining with a target company with a history of poor operating performance can be extremely risky and we may not be able to improve operating performance. If we cannot improve the operating performance of such a target business following our business combination, then our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Factors that could result in our not being able to improve operating performance include, among other things: • inability to predict changes in technological innovation; • competition from superior or lower priced services and products; • lack of financial resources; • inability to attract and retain key executives and employees; • claims for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights and/or the availability of third-party licenses; and • changes in, or costs imposed by, government regulation. We may acquire a target business with operations located outside of the United States which may subject us to additional risks that could have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial results subsequent to the business combination. Acquiring and operating a domestic target company which may have operations outside of the United States may involve additional risks, including changes in trade protection and investment laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting foreign trade and investment; social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region; and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. In addition, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect the price of combining with a foreign target business and, subsequent to the combination, our future net revenues. These types of risks may impede our ability to successfully consummate an initial business combination with a target business which has operations located outside of the United States and may impair our financial results and operations if we consummate such a business combination. Our existing stockholders control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Upon completion of the Offering, our existing stockholders will own approximately 20% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock (or approximately 18% if the over-allotment option is exercised in full). In addition, there is no restriction on the ability of our executive officers, directors and existing stockholders to purchase units or shares of our common stock either in the Offering or in the market after completion of the Offering. If they were to do so, the percentage of our outstanding common stock held by our executive officers, directors and existing stockholders would increase. Our board of directors will be divided into three classes, each of which generally will serve for a term of three years, with only one class of directors being elected in each year. There may not be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of an initial business combination, in which case, all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the initial business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of this “staggered” 23 Table of Contents board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors would be considered for election. As a result of their substantial beneficial ownership through control of Union Street Capital Management, LLC, A. Clayton Perfall, our Chief Executive Officer and President, Brian H. Burke, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and Matthew C. Fletchall, our Vice President of Corporate Development and Secretary, each may exert considerable influence on actions requiring a stockholder vote, including the election of executive officers and directors, amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the approval of benefit plans, mergers and similar transactions (other than approval of the initial business combination). Moreover, except to the extent stockholder proposals are properly and timely submitted, our directors will determine which matters, including prospective business combinations, to submit to a stockholder vote. As a result, they will exert substantial control over actions requiring a stockholder vote both before and following an initial business combination. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to consummate an initial business combination. In connection with the offering, as part of the units, we issued warrants to purchase 12,500,000 shares of common stock. In addition, in connection with the private placement, we issued warrants to Union Street Capital Management, LLC to purchase 3,000,000 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to consummate an initial business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive partner for a business combination in the eyes of a target business, as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and the potential for such issuance could reduce the value of the shares that may be issued to consummate the initial business combination. Accordingly, the existence of our warrants may make it more difficult to consummate an initial business combination or may increase the cost of a target business if we are unable to consummate an initial business combination solely with cash. Additionally, the sale, or potential sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. Our existing stockholders’ exercise of their registration rights may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to consummate an initial business combination. Union Street Capital Management, LLC is entitled to demand on up to three occasions that we register the resale of its shares of common stock and private placement warrants, including the underlying shares of common stock. Union Street Capital Management, LLC and our directors also have certain “piggyback” registration rights and the right to unlimited registration on Form S-3 to the extent that we are eligible to use Form S-3. If Union Street Capital Management, LLC and our directors exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock (including the shares underlying warrants purchased in the private placement) and warrants, then there will be an additional 6,125,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. This potential increase in trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to consummate an initial business combination or increase the cost of a target business in the event that we are unable to consummate an initial business combination solely with cash, as the stockholders of a particular target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. Failure to maintain an effective registration statement and a prospectus available for use relating to the common stock underlying our warrants may deprive our warrants of value and the market for our warrants may be limited. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless at the time of exercise a registration statement relating to shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is effective and a prospectus relating to shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is available for use and those shares of common stock have been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of our warrants. The private placement warrants will not be exercisable at any time when a registration statement relating to the shares of common stock underlying the public warrants is not effective and a prospectus relating to those shares is not available for use by the public warrant holders. Holders of the warrants are not entitled to net cash settlement and the warrants may only be settled by delivery of shares of our common stock and not cash. Under the terms of a warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us, we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to maintain an effective registration statement and prospectus available for use relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants, and to take such action as is necessary to qualify the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants for sale in those states in which the Offering was initially qualified. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. We have no obligation to settle the warrants for cash, in any event, and the warrants may not be exercised and we will not deliver securities therefore in the absence of an effective registration statement or a prospectus available for use. Warrant holders’ sole remedy for our failure to maintain an effective registration statement or a prospectus available for use is an extension of the expiration date for the warrants for a period of time equal to the period 24 Table of Contents during which there is not an effective registration statement under the Securities Act with respect to the common stock and a prospectus with respect to the common stock that is available for use. Notwithstanding any extension of the expiration date, the warrants may never become exercisable if we never comply with these registration requirements. In any case, the warrants may be deprived of value and the market for the warrants may be limited if a registration statement relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not effective, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not available for use or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to consummate an initial business combination or operate over the near term or long term in our intended manner. We do not plan to operate as an investment fund or investment company, or to be engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Our plan is to acquire, hold, operate and grow for the long term businesses in the business services sector. We do not plan to operate as a passive investor or as a merchant bank seeking dividends or gains from purchases and sales of securities. Our principals are experienced as officers and directors in the business services sector. Companies that fall within the definition of an “investment company” set forth in Section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the regulations thereunder, which we refer to as the 1940 Act, are subject to registration and substantive regulation under the 1940 Act. Companies that are subject to the 1940 Act that do not become registered are normally required to liquidate and are precluded from entering into transactions or enforceable contracts other than as an incident to liquidation. The basic definition of an “investment company” in the 1940 Act and related SEC rules and interpretations includes a company (1) that is, proposes to be, or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or (2) that has more than 40% of its assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) in “investment securities,” or (3) that is a “special situation investment company” (such as a merchant bank or private equity fund). For example, if we were deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act, we would be required to become registered under the 1940 Act (or liquidate) and our activities would be subject to a number of restrictions, including, among others: • corporate governance requirements and requirements regarding mergers and share exchanges; • restrictions on the nature of our investments; • restrictions on our capital structure and use of multiple classes of securities; and • restrictions on our use of leverage and collateral; each of which may make it difficult for us to consummate an initial business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, and disclosure requirements, and other rules and regulations; compliance with which would reduce the funds we have available outside the trust account to consummate an initial business combination. In order not to be regulated as an investment company under the 1940 Act, unless we can qualify for an exclusion, we must ensure that we are engaged primarily in an initial business other than investing, reinvesting or trading of securities and that our activities do not include investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading “investment securities.” Our business will be to identify and consummate a business combination and thereafter to operate the acquired business or businesses for the long term. We do not plan to buy companies with a view to resale or profit from sale of the businesses. We do not plan to buy unrelated businesses or to be a passive investor. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the 1940 Act. To this end, the proceeds held in the trust account may only be invested by the trustee in U.S. government securities and in assets that are considered “cash items” for purposes of Section 3(a)(2) of the 1940 Act. Pursuant to the trust agreement, the trustee is not permitted to invest in securities or assets that are considered “investment securities” within the meaning of Section 3(a) of the 1940 Act. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, and by having a business plan targeted at acquiring, growing and operating businesses for the long term in the business services sector (rather than on buying and selling companies in the manner of a merchant bank or private equity fund) we intend to avoid being deemed an “investment company” within the meaning of the 1940 Act. The Offering was not intended for persons who are seeking a return on investments in government securities or investment securities. The trust account and the purchase of government securities for the trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or (ii) absent a business combination, our 25 Table of Contents dissolution and return of the funds held in the trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. Notwithstanding our belief that we are not required to comply with the requirements of such act, in the event that the stockholders do not approve a plan of dissolution and distribution and the funds remain in the trust account for an indeterminable amount of time, we may be considered to be an investment company and thus required to comply with such act. In addition, if we do not invest the proceeds as discussed above, we may be deemed to be subject to the 1940 Act. If we were deemed to be subject to the 1940 Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not accounted. Our directors, including those we expect to serve on our Audit Committee, may not be considered “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., and, therefore, may take actions or incur expenses that are not deemed to be independently approved or independently determined to be in our best interest. Under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., an international organization devoted to investor protection, because all of our directors may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf, such as attending meetings of the board of directors, identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, and all of our directors, directly or indirectly, own shares of our securities, state securities administrators could take the position that such individuals are not “independent.” If this were the case, they would take the position that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. There is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred, and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. To the extent such out-of pocket expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the trust account, such out-of-pocket expenses would not be reimbursed by us unless we consummate an initial business combination. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not they are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken or expenses are incurred that actually are not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock held by the public stockholders. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE BUSINESS SERVICES INDUSTRY We intend to consummate an initial business combination with a company in the business services industry. After our initial business combination, we would be exposed to certain risks, including the following: The business services industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete with businesses that have greater resources than we do. After we consummate our initial business combination, we expect to face significant competition for business services clients and we expect that competition will increase as the trend towards offshore outsourcing and expansion by foreign and domestic competitors continues and continuing technological changes result in new and different competitors entering the market. These competitors may have greater resources or a lower cost structure than we will, enabling them to offer price reductions, adopt new or emerging technologies faster than we will, devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services than we will, or obtain client contracts by making available financing support that we may be unable to provide. Some of these competitors will have longer operating histories, more technological expertise, more recognizable brand names and more established relationships in industries that our business may serve in the future. Our business will need to keep pace with our competitors’ use of technology both to run its own operations and to provide services to clients. If it is unable to keep pace with changes in technology, its services or products could become obsolete, or it may operate less efficiently than our competitors, putting us at a competitive disadvantage. Increased competition, our inability to compete successfully against current or future competitors, pricing pressures or loss of market share could result in increased costs and reduced operating margins, which could harm its business, operating results, financial condition and future prospects. Competition in the business services industry could include offshore service providers, large consulting companies seeking operational outsourcing opportunities and potential clients’ own internal service organizations. We could cause disruptions to our clients’ business from inadequate service, resulting in loss of clients and serious damage to our reputation. Failure to meet service requirements of a client could result in that client terminating their relationship with us. In addition, a failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to attract new business. Such damage to our reputation could cause some existing clients’ to decide not to renew contracts with us. Repairing this damage may require significant time and we may need to incur additional costs and expend additional efforts to reestablish our reputation in the industry and regain the confidence of potential clients. 26 Table of Contents Fraudulent data access and other security breaches may negatively impact our business and harm our reputation. Security breaches in our facilities, computer networks and databases may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Despite security measures that we will undertake, systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar disruptive problems. Third-party contractors also may experience security breaches involving the storage and transmission of proprietary information. If users gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential third-party information that is stored or transmitted on the networks. In addition, misuse by customers of our information services could cause harm to our business and reputation and result in loss of customers. A security or privacy breach may affect us in the following ways: • deterring customers from using our services and products; • deterring data suppliers from supplying data to us; • harming our reputation; • exposing us to liability; • increasing operating expenses to correct a breach; • affecting our ability to meet customers’ expectations; or • causing inquiry from governmental authorities. We may encounter long sales and implementation cycles that require significant resource commitments by us and our clients, which they may be unwilling or unable to make. Some sectors that we may consider for a business combination providing business services may involve significant resource commitments by us and our clients. After the consummation of an initial business combination, we may expend substantial time and money on potential clients, educating them as to the value of our services and products and assessing the feasibility of integrating our systems and processes with theirs. Decisions relating to engaging business service providers generally involve the evaluation of the service by our clients’ senior management and a significant number of client personnel in various functional areas, each having specific and often conflicting requirements. We may expend significant funds and management resources during the sales cycle, and ultimately the potential client may not engage our services. Our sales cycle for all of our services is subject to significant risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including: • potential clients’ alternatives to our services or products, including their willingness to replace their internal solutions or existing vendors; • potential clients’ budgetary constraints, and the timing of our clients’ budget cycles and approval process; • potential clients’ willingness to expend the time and resources necessary to integrate their systems with our systems and network; and • the timing and expiration of potential clients’ current outsourcing agreements for similar services. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds and management resources, or if we experience delays in the sales cycle, it could have a negative impact on our revenues and margins. The sales and implementation process occupies important personnel resources that could otherwise be assisting other new clients. Moreover, after being engaged by a client after the sales process, it may take an additional period of time to integrate the client’s systems with ours, and to thereafter ramp-up our services to the client’s requirements. In certain sectors of the business services industry, we may be subject to extensive laws and regulations. In some sectors that we may consider for a business combination, companies have become subject to an increasing amount of federal and state regulation. To the extent that we have foreign operations, we will also be subject to the laws and regulations of the different jurisdictions where we operate. Failure to comply with applicable laws may subject us to, among other things, liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to continue to serve our clients or engage new clients, and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow. Additional federal, state, local or foreign legislation, or changes in regulatory implementation, could further limit our activities or those of our clients in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance in the affected jurisdiction. If we rely on the use of intellectual property, we may be exposed to intellectual property infringement claims. If we combine with a target company that relies heavily on the use of intellectual property to run its business, such entity may license, rather than own, the software that it uses from third-party vendors. If these vendors assert claims that we or our clients are infringing on their software or related intellectual property, we could incur substantial costs to defend these claims, which could have a material effect on our profitability and cash flow. In addition, if any of these vendors’ infringement claims are ultimately successful, the vendors could require us to (1) cease selling or using services or products that incorporate the challenged software or technology, (2) obtain a license or additional licenses from our vendors, or (3) redesign our services or products which rely on the challenged software or technology. If we are unsuccessful in the defense of an infringement claim and these vendors require us to initiate any of the above actions, then such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 27 Table of Contents We may experience significant employee turnover and we may be unable to hire and retain enough sufficiently trained employees to support our operations, which could limit our ability to service clients, grow and operate profitably. Some sectors of the business services industry are labor intensive and, following an initial business combination, our success could depend on our ability to attract, hire and retain qualified employees. Our growth could require that we continually hire and train new personnel. Higher than expected turnover among our employees would increase our recruiting and training costs and decrease operating efficiency and productivity and could lead to a decline in demand for our services. If this were to occur, we would be unable to service our clients effectively, and this would reduce our ability to continue our growth and operate profitably. We may be unable to continue to recruit, hire, train and retain a sufficient labor force of qualified employees to execute our growth strategy or meet the needs of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 