ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry A further downturn in public and private sector construction activity in the regions we serve, or other conditions that impact the construction industry, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A further downturn in construction activity in our geographic service areas may affect demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. During fiscal year 2013, a portion of our contract revenue was generated by services rendered to public agencies in connection with private and public sector construction projects. Since 2008, general economic conditions declined due to a number of factors including slower economic activity, a lack of available credit, decreased consumer confidence and reduced corporate profits and capital spending, leading to a slowdown in construction, particularly residential housing construction, in the western United States. As a result of this slowdown, both our engineering services segment and public finance services segment suffered declines in revenue and operating margin compression and we made several reductions in workforce and facility leases. While economic conditions began to improve from fiscal year 2010 through fiscal year 2013, the recovery has been slow with regard to our traditional engineering and public finance services segments. If the economy declines again, we will need to evaluate whether further reductions in headcount and facilities in geographic areas that are underperforming are again needed. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may also be adversely affected by conditions that impact the construction sector in general, including, among other things: •Changes in national and local market conditions due to changes in general or local economic conditions and neighborhood characteristics; •Slow-growth or no-growth initiatives or legislation; •Adverse changes in local and regional governmental policies on investment in infrastructure; •Adverse changes in federal and state policies regarding the allocation of funds to local and regional agencies; •The impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws and other regulatory requirements; •Changes in real estate tax rates and assessments; •Increases in interest rates and changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing; •Adverse changes in other governmental rules and fiscal policies; and •Earthquakes and other natural disasters, which can cause uninsured losses, and other factors which are beyond our control. Any of these factors could adversely affect the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the local and regional economies of California could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse economic and other conditions affecting the local and regional economies of California may reduce the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During fiscal year 2013, approximately 68% of our contract revenue was derived from services rendered to public agencies, utilities, and private industry in 19 Table of Contents California. California experienced an economic downturn in fiscal year 2009, which negatively impacted our revenue and profitability and continues to negatively impact revenues in our Engineering Services and Public Finance Services segments. Any future downturns could have similar significant adverse impacts on our results of operations. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders, which may impact our ability to execute on our current or future business strategies. We anticipate that our current cash, cash equivalents, cash provided by operating activities and borrowing ability under our revolving line of credit will be sufficient to meet our current and anticipated needs for general corporate purposes during the next 12 months. It is possible, however, that we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise have the capital resources to meet our future capital needs. In addition, we may not have access to the funds available under our revolving line of credit if we breach any of the covenants under the credit agreement. We have breached certain covenants under our credit facility with Wells Fargo in recent years and were required to obtain the consent of Wells Fargo in order to borrow under that facility. If we breach covenants under our new revolving credit agreement, BMO Harris, as lender, could increase our interest rate, make the loans outstanding under the credit agreement immediately due and payable and/or terminate its commitments to us under the agreement. Additionally, in the event that we need to seek a waiver for a covenant breach, such waiver could also result in modifications to the terms of the credit agreement that are not favorable to us. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise, we may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies, including hiring additional personnel, developing new or enhancing existing service lines, expanding our business geographically, enhancing our operating infrastructure, acquiring complementary businesses, or otherwise responding to competitive pressures. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt or equity securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our ability to fund our operations, meet obligations in the normal course of business, take advantage of strategic opportunities, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Reductions in state and local government budgets could negatively impact their capital spending and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Several of our state and local government clients are currently facing budget deficits, resulting in smaller budgets and reduced capital spending, which has negatively impacted our revenue and profitability. Our state and local government clients may continue to face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding new or existing projects. In addition, existing and potential clients may either postpone entering into new contracts or request price concessions. If we are not able to reduce our costs quickly enough to respond to the revenue decline from these clients that may occur, our operating results would be adversely affected. Accordingly, these factors affect our ability to accurately forecast our future revenue and earnings from business areas that may be adversely impacted by market conditions. We depend on a limited number of clients for a significant portion of our business. Our largest client, Consolidated Edison Company of New York, accounted for approximately 16% of our consolidated contract revenue in fiscal year 2013 and 21% in fiscal year 2012. Prior to July 2012, this revenue primarily related to a contract we entered into in fiscal year 2009 with Consolidated 20 Table of Contents Edison, which has terminated. We entered into a new contract with Consolidated Edison in July 2012, but this contract is for fewer services than the 2009 contract with Consolidated Edison. Our top five customers collectively accounted for approximately 41% of our revenue in fiscal year 2013. The loss of, or reduction in orders from, these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislation may be enacted that limits the ability of state, regional or local agencies to contract for our privatized services. Such legislation would affect our ability to obtain new contracts and may decrease the demand for our services. Legislation is proposed periodically, particularly in the state of California, that attempts to limit the ability of governmental agencies to contract with private consultants to provide services. Should such legislation pass and be upheld, demand for our services may be materially adversely affected. During fiscal year 2013, approximately 71% of our contract revenue was derived from services rendered to public agencies, including public utilities, in California. While attempts at such legislation have failed in the past, such measures could be adopted in the future. State and other public employee unions may bring litigation that seeks to limit the ability of public agencies to contract with private firms to perform government employee functions in the area of public improvements. Judicial determinations in favor of these unions could affect our ability to compete for contracts and may have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. For more than 20 years, state and other public employee unions have challenged the validity of propositions, legislation, charters and other government regulations that allow public agencies to contract with private firms to provide services in the fields of engineering, design and construction of public improvements that might otherwise be provided by public employees. These challenges could have the effect of eliminating, or severely restricting, the ability of municipalities to hire private firms for the purpose of designing and constructing public improvements, and otherwise require them to use union employees to perform the services. For example, the Professional Engineers in California Government, or PECG, a union representing state civil service employees, began challenging Caltrans' hiring of private firms in 1986, and in 2002 began a judicial challenge of Caltrans' hiring practices based on Caltrans' interpretation of the effect of Proposition 35 (Professional Engineers in California Government, et al. v. Jeff Morales, et al..). The California Supreme Court ruled in favor of Caltrans, concluding that Caltrans may hire private contractors to perform architectural and engineering services on public works. Although Caltrans was successful in this litigation, similar claims may be brought in the future and we cannot predict their outcome. If a state or other public employee union is successful in its challenge and as a result the ability of state agencies to hire private firms is severely limited, such a decision would likely lead to additional litigation challenging the ability of the state, counties, municipalities and other public agencies to hire private engineering, architectural and other firms, the outcome of which could affect our ability to compete for contracts and may have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Changes in elected or appointed officials could have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain an existing contract with or obtain additional contracts from a public agency. Since the decision to retain our services is made by individuals, such as city managers, city councils and other elected or appointed officials, our business and financial results or condition could be adversely affected by the results of local and regional elections. A change in the individuals responsible for selecting consultants for and awarding contracts on behalf of a public agency due to an election could adversely affect our ability to retain an existing contract with or obtain additional contracts from such public agency. 21 Table of Contents Fixed price contracts under which we perform some of our services impose risks to our ability to maintain or grow our profitability. In fiscal year 2013, approximately 31% of our contract revenue was derived from fixed price contracts. Under fixed price contracts, we perform services under a contract at a stipulated price which protects clients but exposes us to a greater number of risks than time-and-materials and unit-based contracts. These risks include: •Underestimation of costs; •Ambiguities in specifications; •Problems with new technologies; •Unforeseen costs or difficulties; •Failures of subcontractors; •Delays beyond our control; and •Economic and other changes that may occur during the contract period. The occurrence of any such risk could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Because we primarily provide services to municipalities, public utilities and other public agencies, we are more susceptible to the unique risks associated with government contracts. We primarily work for municipalities, public utilities and other public agencies. Consequently, we are exposed to certain risks associated with government contracting, any one of which can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks include: •The ability of the public agency to terminate the contract with 30 days' prior notice or less; •Changes in government spending and fiscal policies which can have an adverse effect on demand for our services; •Contracts that are subject to government budget cycles, and often are subject to renewal on an annual basis; •The often wide variation of the types and pricing terms of contracts from agency to agency; •The difficulty of obtaining change orders and additions to contracts; and •The requirement to perform periodic audits as a condition of certain contract arrangements. Changes in the perceived risk of acts of terrorism or natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our Homeland Security Services business. If there is a significant decrease in the perceived risk of the likelihood that one or more acts of terrorism will be conducted in the United States, or a significant decrease in the perceived risk of the occurrence of natural disasters, our ability to grow and generate revenue through our Homeland Security Services segment, could be negatively affected. Our Homeland Security Services segment provides training and consulting services to local and regional agencies related to preparing for and responding to incidents of terrorism and natural disaster. Should the perceived risk of such incidence decline, federal and state funding for homeland security and emergency preparedness could be reduced, which might decrease demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents The loss of certain of our key executives could adversely affect our business, including our ability to secure and complete engagements and attract and retain employees. Our success is highly dependent upon the efforts, talents, abilities, marketing skills and operational execution of our key executives and managers. Any future losses of our management team or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, including the ability to secure or complete contracts and to attract and retain additional employees. Our ability to grow and compete in our industry will be hampered if we are unable to retain the continued service of our key employees or to identify, hire and retain additional qualified employees. A critical factor to our business is our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We are continually at risk of losing current employees or being unable to hire additional employees as needed. If we are unable to attract new qualified employees, our ability to grow will be adversely affected. If we are unable to retain current employees, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, including as a result of our former employees competing against us for contracts. We operate in a highly fragmented industry, and we may not be able to compete effectively with our larger competitors. The market for engineering and planning, energy efficiency, economic and financial consulting and national preparedness and interoperability services is competitive and highly fragmented. Contract awards are based primarily on quality of service, relevant experience, staffing capabilities, reputation, geographic presence, stability and price. Some of our competitors in certain service areas have more personnel and greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. In particular, our competitors for engineering related services, which represented approximately 41% and 36% of our contract revenue for fiscal years 2013 and 2012, respectively, include many larger consulting firms such as Charles Abbott & Associates, Inc., Bureau Veritas, Harris & Associates, Psomas, RBF Consulting, Tetra Tech, Inc., Stantec, Inc., Michael Baker Corporation, TRC Companies, Inc., AECOM Technology Corporation, CH2M Hill and Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc. Our energy efficiency and sustainability consulting services, which represented approximately 42% and 49% of our contract revenue for fiscal years 2013 and 2012, respectively, competes with larger energy efficiency consulting firms such as Lockheed-Martin, EnerPath, KEMA (a division of the DNV Group) and Nexant, Inc. In certain public finance consulting services, we may compete with large accounting firms. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future with these or other competitors. Our services may expose us to liability in excess of our current insurance coverage, which may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our services involve significant risks of professional and other liabilities, which may substantially exceed the fees we derive from our services. In addition, from time to time, we assume liabilities as a result of indemnification provisions contained in our service contracts. We cannot predict the magnitude of these potential liabilities. We currently maintain general liability insurance, with coverage in the amount of $1.0 million per occurrence, subject to a $2.0 million general aggregate limit; and professional liability insurance, with $5.0 million in coverage per claim, and a $10.0 million annual aggregate limit. We also carry excess coverage of an additional $10.0 million for general, automobile and employer's liability claims. Claims may be made against us that exceed these limits. We are liable to pay claims from our assets if and when the aggregate settlement or judgment amount exceeds our policy limits. Our professional liability policy is a "claims made" policy. Thus, only claims made during the term of the policy are covered. If we terminate our professional liability policy and do not obtain retroactive coverage, we would be uninsured for claims made after termination even if these claims are based on events or acts that 23 Table of Contents occurred during the term of the policy. Further, our insurance may not protect us against liability because our policies typically have various exceptions to the claims covered and also require us to assume some costs of the claim even though a portion of the claim may be covered. In addition, if we expand into new markets, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage for these new activities or, if insurance is obtained, the dollar amount of any liabilities incurred could exceed our insurance coverage. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of significant magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. We often rely on subcontractors. The quality of our service and our ability to perform under some of our contracts would be adversely affected if qualified subcontractors are unavailable for us to engage. Under some of our contracts, we rely on the efforts and skills of subcontractors for the performance of some of the tasks. Subcontractor services and other direct costs comprised approximately 29% of our contract revenue in fiscal year 2013. Our use of subcontractors has decreased in recent years primarily because our subsidiary Willdan Energy Solutions has reduced its utilization of subcontractors. Our subsidiary Willdan Energy Solutions generally utilizes a higher percentage of subcontractors than our other subsidiaries. The absence of qualified subcontractors with whom we have a satisfactory relationship could adversely affect the quality of our service offerings and therefore our financial results. Additionally, we may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor or client concerns about the subcontractor. Potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we intend to consider acquisitions of companies that are complementary to our business. Appropriate acquisitions could allow us to expand into new geographical locations, offer new services, or acquire additional talent. Accordingly, our future performance will be impacted by our ability to identify appropriate businesses to acquire, negotiate favorable terms for such acquisitions and then effectively and efficiently integrate such acquisitions into our existing businesses. There is no certainty that we will succeed in such endeavors. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: •Difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; •Difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the target company; •Diversion of our financial and management resources from existing operations; •The price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; •Risks of entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; •Potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company's business; •Assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company's services; and •Inability to generate sufficient net income to justify the acquisition costs. 24 Table of Contents Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairment in the future that could harm our financial results. For example, during fiscal year 2012, we recorded an impairment charge of $15.2 million related to goodwill associated with our acquisition of Intergy Corp in 2008. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could lower the market price of our common stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of amounts that we anticipate. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs as a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we would not incur as a private company such as more costly director and officer liability insurance and legal and financial compliance costs. If new rules and regulations for public companies are put in place, our compliance costs may increase further and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past year and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. The price of our common stock is volatile and may fluctuate significantly. For example, during our fiscal year ended December 27, 2013, the price of our stock ranged from a high of $5.50 per share to a low of $2.01 per share. We cannot assure you as to the prices at which our common stock will trade or that an active trading market in our common stock will be sustained in the future. In addition to the matters discussed in other risk factors included herein, some of the reasons for fluctuations in our stock price could include: •our operating and financial performance and prospects; •the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; •investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; •the level, or lack thereof, of research coverage of our common stock; •general financial, domestic, international, economic and other market conditions; •proposed acquisitions by us or our competitors; •the hiring or departure of key personnel; and •adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay damages. In addition, public stock markets have experienced, and may in the future experience, extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many companies, including our peer companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The concentration of ownership of our stock may delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and as a result may hinder the ability of our stockholders to take advantage of a premium offer. The concentration of ownership of our stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company or a change in our management and may adversely affect the voting or other rights of other holders of our common stock. As of March 17, 2014, our directors and executive officers beneficially own 976,792 shares of common stock, or approximately 13.2% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, Jeremy Zhu, individually and as managing director of Wedbush Opportunity Capital LLC, Edward Wedbush, individually and as the Chairman and a stockholder of Wedbush Inc., beneficially own 1,084,730 and 1,052,184 shares of common stock, respectively, or approximately 14.7% and 14.2%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. 25 Table of Contents Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information In addition to current and historical information, this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to our future operations, prospects, potential products, services, developments and business strategies. These statements can, in some cases, be identified by the use of words like "may," "will," "should," "could," "would," "intend," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "predict," "project," "potential," or "continue" or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. This report includes, among others, forward-looking statements regarding our: •Expectations about future customers; •Expectations about expanded service offerings; •Expectations about our ability to cross-sell additional services to existing clients; •Expectations about our intended geographical expansion; •Expectations about our ability to attract executive officers and key employees; •Evaluation of the materiality of our current legal proceedings; and •Expectations about positive cash flow generation and existing cash and cash equivalents being sufficient to meet normal operating requirements. These statements involve certain known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those listed in this section. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 