Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the events or developments described below occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business Intense competition in our industry may hinder our ability to generate revenue and may adversely affect our margins. The market for our software is intensely competitive. Our primary competitors include EMC Corporation (Legato), Neverfail Group, Ltd., Symantec Corporation (Veritas) and CA, Inc. (XOsoft Inc.). Some of these companies and many of our other current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do, as well as larger installed customer bases and greater name recognition. Our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, marketing, distribution, sale and support of their products than we can and some may have the ability to bundle their data replication offerings with their other products. The extensive relationships that these competitors have with existing customers may make it increasingly difficult for us to increase our market share. The resources of these 12 competitors also may enable them to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and to reduce prices to win new customers. As this market continues to develop, a number of other companies with greater resources than ours, including Microsoft, could attempt to enter the market or increase their presence by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our competitors or business partners or by introducing their own competing products. Our success will depend on our ability to adapt to these competitive forces, to develop more advanced products more rapidly and less expensively than our competitors, to continue to develop a global sales and support network, and to educate potential customers about the benefits of using our software rather than our competitors’ products. Existing or new competitors could introduce products with superior features, scalability and functionality at lower prices. This could dramatically affect our ability to sell our software. In addition, some of our customers and potential customers may buy other software, other competing products and related services from our competitors, and to the extent that they prefer to consolidate their software purchasing from fewer vendors, they may choose not to continue to purchase our software and support services. We expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies. Increased competition could result in reduced revenue, price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which would harm our results of operations. Because a large majority of our sales are made to or through distributors, value-added resellers and original equipment manufacturers, none of which have any obligation to sell our software applications, the failure of this distribution network to sell our software effectively could materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We rely on distributors, value-added resellers and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, together with our inside and field-based direct sales force, to sell our products. These distributors, resellers and OEMs sell our software applications and, in some cases, incorporate our software into systems that they sell. We expect that these arrangements will continue to generate a large majority of our total revenue. Sales to or through our distributors, resellers and OEMs accounted for approximately 93% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 94% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Sales to or through our top five distributors, resellers and OEMs accounted for approximately 63% of our total revenue for 2005 and 47% of our total revenue for 2006. We have limited control over the amount of software that these businesses purchase from us or sell on our behalf, we do not have long term contracts with any of them, and they have limited obligations to recommend, offer or sell our software applications. Thus there is no guarantee that this source of revenue will continue at the same level as it has in the past. Any material decrease in the volume of sales generated by our larger distributors, resellers and OEMs could materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations in future periods. We depend on growth in the storage replication market, and lack of growth or contraction in this market could materially adversely affect our sales and financial condition. Demand for data replication software is driven by several factors, including an increased focus on protecting business-critical applications, government and industry regulations requiring data protection and recovery, a heightened awareness of the potential for natural and man-made disasters and the growth in stored data from the increased use of automated systems. Segments of the computer and software industry have in the past experienced significant economic downturns and decreases in demand as a result of changing market factors. A change in the market factors that are driving demand for data replication software could adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. Our current products are designed exclusively for the Microsoft server environment, which exposes us to risks if Microsoft products are not compatible with our software or if Microsoft chooses to compete more substantially with us in the future. We currently depend exclusively on customers that deploy Microsoft products within their organizations. Microsoft could make changes to its software that render our software incompatible or less effective. Furthermore, 13 Microsoft may choose to focus increased resources on applications that compete with our applications, including competing applications that Microsoft bundles with its operating platform. These actions could materially adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and maintain acceptable profit margins. We have not generated net profits for any year since our inception and we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We generated net losses of $15.3 million for 2004, and $11.8 million for 2005, and $0.6 million for 2006. We may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability in future periods. We intend to continue to expend significant funds in developing our software offerings and for general corporate purposes, including marketing, services and sales operations, hiring additional personnel, upgrading our infrastructure, and regulatory compliance obligations in connection with being a public reporting company. We expect that associated expenses will precede any revenue generated by the increased spending. If we experience a downturn in our business, we may incur or continue to incur losses and negative cash flows from operations, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and capitalization. Because we generate substantially all of our revenue from sales of our Double-Take software and related services, a decline in demand for our Double-Take software could materially adversely affect our revenue, profitability and financial condition. We derive nearly all of our software revenue from our Double-Take software, which generated approximately 97% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2006. In addition, we derive substantially all of our maintenance and professional services revenue from associated maintenance and customer support of these applications. As a result, we are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for these software applications, whether as a result of competition, product obsolescence, technological change, budgetary constraints of our customers or other factors. If demand for any of these software applications declines significantly, our revenue, profitability and financial condition would be adversely affected. We may not be able to respond to technological changes with new software applications, which could materially adversely affect our sales and profitability. The markets for our software applications are characterized by rapid technological changes, changing customer needs, frequent introduction of new software applications and evolving industry standards. The introduction of software applications that embody new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could make our software applications obsolete or otherwise unmarketable. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict the lifecycle of our software applications, which may become obsolete before we receive any revenue or the amount of revenue that we anticipate from them. If any of the foregoing events were to occur, our ability to retain or increase market share in the storage replication market could be materially adversely affected. To be successful, we need to anticipate, develop and introduce new software applications on a timely and cost-effective basis that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their budgets. We may fail to develop or sell software applications that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards, experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or sale of these applications or fail to develop applications that adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop and market such applications and services on a timely basis, or at all, could materially adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our failure to offer high quality customer support services could harm our reputation and could materially adversely affect our sales of software applications and results of operations. Our customers depend on us, and, to some extent, our distribution partners, to resolve implementation, technical or other issues relating to our software. A high level of service is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our software. If we or our distribution partners do not succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve 14 post-deployment issues, our reputation could be harmed and our ability to make new sales or increase sales to existing customers could be damaged. Defects or errors in our software could adversely affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our software. If our software is determined to contain defects or errors our reputation could be materially adversely affected, which could result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our software in the future. The costs we would incur to correct product defects or errors may be substantial and would adversely affect our operating results. After the release of our software, defects or errors have been identified from time to time by our internal team and by our clients. Such defects or errors may occur in the future. Any defects that cause interruptions to the data recovery functions of our applications, or that cause other applications on the operating system to malfunction or fail, could result in: • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our software; • loss of clients; • product liability suits against us; • diversion of development resources; • injury to our reputation; and • increased maintenance and warranty costs. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Sunbelt System Software S.A.S. Our future success will depend in significant part on our ability to realize the operating efficiencies, new revenue opportunities and cost savings we expect to result from the integration of Sunbelt System Software S.A.S., which is now known as Double-Take Software S.A.S., or Double-Take EMEA. Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to integrate successfully the operations of Double-Take EMEA, or incur unforeseen costs and expenses or experience unexpected operating difficulties that offset anticipated cost savings. In particular, the integration may involve, among other items, integration of sales, marketing, billing, accounting, management, personnel, payroll, network infrastructure and other systems and operating hardware and software, some of which may be incompatible with our existing systems and therefore may need to be replaced. The integration may place significant strain on our management, financial and other resources. We may not receive significant revenue from our research and development efforts for several years, if at all. We have made a significant investment in developing and improving our software. Our research and development expenditures were $8.7 million, or approximately 29% of our total revenue, for 2004, $9.7 million, or approximately 24% of our total revenue, for 2005 and $10.7 million, or approximately 18% of our total revenue, for 2006. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of our resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and we plan to do so. However, we may not receive significant revenue from these investments for several years following each investment, if ever. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our key technical, sales, services and management personnel. We rely on our executive officers and senior management to execute our existing business plans and to identify and pursue new opportunities. The loss of key employees could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration of replacement personnel could be time consuming, cause additional disruptions to our business and be unsuccessful. We do not carry key person life insurance covering any of our employees. Our future success also depends on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, services and management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may fail to retain our key 15 technical, services and management employees or attract or retain other highly qualified technical, services and management personnel in the future. Conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our personnel costs would be excessive and our business and profitability could be adversely affected. We will not be able to maintain our sales growth if we do not retain or attract and train qualified sales personnel. A portion of our revenue is generated by our direct sales force, and our future success will depend in part upon its continued productivity and expansion. To the extent we experience attrition in our direct sales force, we will need to hire replacements. We face intense competition for sales personnel in the software industry, and we may not be successful in retaining, hiring or training our sales personnel in accordance with our plans. If we fail to retain the experienced members of our sales force, or maintain and expand our sales force as needed, our future sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Changes in the regulatory environment and general economic condition and other factors in countries in which we have international sales and operations could adversely affect our operations. We derived approximately 24% of our revenue from sales outside the United States in 2005 and approximately 29% of our revenue from sales outside the United States in 2006. We anticipate that our acquisition of Double-Take EMEA in May 2006 will significantly increase the percentage of our revenue generated from sales outside the United States in future periods. Our international operations are subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many countries, including: • difficulties in staffing and managing our international operations; • costs and delays in downsizing non-United States workforces, if necessary, as a result of applicable non-United States employment and other laws; • the adoption or imposition by foreign countries of additional withholding taxes, other taxes on our income, or tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; • general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate could adversely affect our earnings from operations in those countries; • imposition of, or unexpected adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur, including those pertaining to export duties and quota, trade and employment restrictions; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivables; • competition from local suppliers; and • political unrest, war or acts of terrorism. Each of the foregoing risks could reduce our revenue or increase our expenses. We are exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations that could harm our reported revenue and results of operations. Historically, our international sales were generally denominated in the United States dollar. As a result of our acquisition of Double-Take EMEA, we now have international sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our primary exposures are to fluctuations in exchange rates for the United States dollar versus the Euro and, to a lesser extent, the British Pound. Changes in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our reported revenue and could require us to reduce our prices to remain competitive in foreign markets, which could also materially adversely affect our results of operations. We have not historically hedged exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and, as a result, we could incur unanticipated gains or losses. 16 Protection of our intellectual property is limited, and any misuse of our intellectual property by others could materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Proprietary technology in our software is important to our success. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. While we own two issued patents, we have not emphasized patents as a source of significant competitive advantage and have also sought to protect our proprietary technology under laws affording protection for trade secrets, copyright and trademark protection of our software, products and developments where available and appropriate. In addition, our issued patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties, and the patents of others may seriously impede our ability to conduct our business. Further, any patents issued to us may not be timely or broad enough to protect our proprietary rights. We also have five registered trademarks in the U.S., including the Double-Take mark. Although we attempt to monitor use of and take steps to prevent third parties from using our trademarks without permission, policing the unauthorized use of our trademarks is difficult. If we fail to take steps to enforce our trademark rights, our competitive position and brand recognition may be diminished. We protect our software, trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring all of our employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. We also enter into non-disclosure agreements with our consultants to protect our confidential and proprietary information. There can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce these agreements, have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets and other proprietary information will not be disclosed or otherwise be protected. Furthermore, there also can be no assurance that others will not independently develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or reverse engineer our products. Protection of trade secret and other intellectual property rights in the markets in which we operate and compete is highly uncertain and may involve complex legal and scientific questions. The laws of countries in which we operate may afford little or no protection to our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. Policing unauthorized use of our trade secret technologies and proving misappropriation of our technologies is particularly difficult, and we expect software piracy to continue to be a persistent problem. Piracy of our products represents a loss of revenue to us. Furthermore, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may adversely affect our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or if third-parties independently develop or gain access to our or similar technologies, our competitive position and revenue could suffer. Claims that we misuse the intellectual property of others could subject us to significant liability and disrupt our business, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Because of the nature of our business, we may become subject to material claims of infringement by competitors and other third-parties with respect to current or future software applications, trademarks or other proprietary rights. Our competitors, some of which may have substantially greater resources than us and have made significant investments in competing technologies or products, may have, or seek to apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell our current and future products, and we may not be successful in defending allegations of infringement of these patents. Further, we may not be aware of all of the patents and other intellectual property rights owned by third-parties that may be potentially adverse to our interests. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of a third party’s patents or other proprietary rights, including whether any of our products or processes infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of third-parties. The outcome of any such proceedings is uncertain and, if 17 unfavorable, could significantly harm our business. If we do not prevail in this type of litigation, we may be required to: • pay damages, including actual monetary damages, royalties, lost profits or other damages and third-party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • expend significant time and resources to modify or redesign the affected products or procedures so that they do not infringe a third-party’s patents or other intellectual property rights; further, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in modifying or redesigning the affected products or procedures; • obtain a license in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products or processes, and pay license fees and royalties; if we are able to obtain such a license, it may be non-exclusive, giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property, or the patent owner may require that we grant a cross-license to part of our proprietary technologies; or • stop the development, manufacture, use, marketing or sale of the affected products through a court-ordered sanction called an injunction, if a license is not available on acceptable terms, or not available at all, or our attempts to redesign the affected products are unsuccessful. Any of these events could adversely affect our business strategy and the value of our business. In addition, the defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, interferences, oppositions and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and elsewhere, even if resolved in our favor, could be expensive, time consuming, generate negative publicity and could divert financial and managerial resources. In December 2005, we agreed to terms for settlement of a legal proceeding with a provider of information storage systems that involved claims regarding some of the intellectual property components of our software. Pursuant to a settlement agreement, we paid $3.8 million in January 2006 and agreed to pay, or make purchase of their products for our use or for resale in amounts equal to, $500,000 in each of January 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010. For January 2007, we purchased products to fulfill this agreement in December of 2006. We expect that software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of software applications and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of software applications in different industry segments overlaps. Thus, we could be subject to additional patent infringement claims in the future. There can be no assurance that the claims that may arise in the future can be amicably disposed of, and it is possible that litigation could ensue. Intellectual property litigation can be complex, costly and protracted. As a result, any intellectual property litigation to which we are subject could disrupt our business operations, require us to incur substantial costs and subject us to significant liabilities, each of which could severely harm our business. Plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek injunctive relief. Any intellectual property litigation commenced against us could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, including the following: • stop selling our products or using the technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • attempt to obtain a license to use the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and • attempt to redesign the products that allegedly infringed upon the intellectual property. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, our business, financial position and operating results could be harmed. We may not be able to develop, license or acquire non-infringing technology under reasonable terms, if at all. These developments would result in an inability to compete for customers and would adversely affect our ability to increase our revenue. The measure of damages in intellectual property litigation can be complex, and is often subjective or uncertain. If we were to be found liable for the infringement of a third party’s proprietary rights, the amount of damages we might have to pay could be substantial and would be difficult to predict. 18 We may engage in future acquisitions or investments that present many risks, and we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any of these transactions. We do not have significant experience acquiring companies. Since our inception, our only acquisition has been the acquisition of Double-Take EMEA. We may acquire or make investments in additional companies. Acquisitions and investments involve a number of difficulties that present risks to our business, including the following: • we may be unable to achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquisition or investment; • we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, and may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; • we may have difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies or products with our existing software and technology; • our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically and culturally diverse locations; • we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; and • we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. These factors could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or cash flow, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. These negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as expense. The consideration paid for an investment or acquisition may also affect our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash, including proceeds of our initial public offering. To the extent we issue shares of our capital stock or other rights to purchase shares of our capital stock as consideration for the acquisitions, including options or other rights, our existing stockholders may be diluted, and our earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, write-offs and restructuring charges. They may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to an impairment test, which could result in future impairment charges. We cannot predict our future capital needs and we may be unable to obtain additional financing to fund acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to acquire complementary businesses, technologies, products or services. Any required additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, you may experience significant dilution of your ownership interest, and the newly-issued securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third-parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance our software and services through acquisitions in order to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could materially adversely affect our software and services offerings, revenue, results of operations and financial condition. We have no current plans, nor are we currently considering any proposals or arrangements, written or otherwise, to acquire a business or a material technology, product or service. 19 We are incurring significant costs as a result of operating as a public company that we have not previously incurred, and our management and key employees will required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. We have operated as a public company only since December 14, 2006. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, impose various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel are devoting substantial amounts of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have significantly increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we have and will continue to incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We will incur significant costs to remediate any material weaknesses we identify through these efforts. These rules and regulations have made it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, We currently are evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. If our profitability is adversely affected because of these additional costs, it could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may experience a decline in revenue or volatility in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We cannot predict our future revenue with certainty because of many factors outside of our control. A significant revenue or profit decline, lowered forecasts or volatility in our operating results could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. Factors that could affect our revenue and operating results include the following: • the possibility that our customers may cancel, defer or limit purchases as a result of reduced information technology budgets; • the possibility that our customers may defer purchases of our software applications in anticipation of new software applications or updates from us or our competitors; • the ability of our distributors, value-added resellers and OEMs to meet their sales objectives; • market acceptance of our new applications and enhancements; • our ability to control expenses; • changes in our pricing and distribution terms or those of our competitors; • the demands on our management, sales force and services infrastructure as a result of the introduction of new software applications or updates; and • the possibility that our business will be adversely affected as a result of the threat of terrorism or military actions taken by the United States or its allies. Our expense levels are relatively fixed and are based, in part, on our expectations of our future revenue. If revenue levels fall below our expectations, our net income would decrease because only a small portion of our expenses varies with our revenue. Therefore, any significant decline in revenue for any period could have an immediate adverse impact on our results of operations for the period. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. In addition, our results of operations could be below expectations of public market analysts and investors in future periods, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 20 If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts covering us downgrade their evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Sales of outstanding shares of our common stock into the market in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As of March 15, 2007, a total of 11,481,677 shares of our common stock, or 55% of our outstanding shares as of March 15, 2007, are currently restricted as a result of securities laws or lock-up agreements but will be able to be sold in the near future. In addition, the holders of an aggregate of 9,202,329 shares of our common stock as of March 15, 2007, have registration rights with respect to their shares of common stock. These registration rights include demand registration rights, in which these stockholders are entitled to require us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act on up to three occasions on SEC Form S-1 and on an unlimited number of occasions on SEC Form S-3, and piggyback registration rights, in which the stockholders with the registration rights are entitled to require us to include their shares in a registration of our securities for sale by us or by other security holders. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. After the lockup agreements pertaining to our initial public offering expire on June 12, 2007, up to an additional 11.7 million shares will be eligible for sale in the public market, 9.0 million of which are held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates and will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 as amended, or the Securities Act. In addition, the 0.2 million shares subject to outstanding warrants and the 3.0 million shares underlying options that are either subject to the terms of our equity compensation plans or reserved for future issuance under our equity compensation plans will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various option agreements and warrants, the lockup agreements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Some of our stockholders may exert significant influence over us. Two general partners of ABS Capital Partners currently serve on our board of directors. Affiliates of ABS Capital Partners own in the aggregate shares representing approximately 29.9% of our outstanding voting power. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exert significant influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. The interests of these stockholders may not coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock with respect to our operations or strategy. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. If we do not pay cash dividends, you could only receive a return on your investment in the common stock if the market price of the common stock increases before you sell your shares. In addition, the terms of our loan and security agreement restrict our ability to pay dividends. 21 Provisions in our organizational documents and in the Delaware General Corporation Law may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws and in the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a takeover attempt we oppose even if a change in control of our company would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences and rights of each series without stockholder approval. The ability to issue preferred stock could discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third-party to gain control of our company, or otherwise could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting stock, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner. However, because funds affiliated with ABS Capital Partners acquired their shares prior to our initial public offering, Section 203 is currently inapplicable to any business combination or transaction with it or its affiliates. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 