risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. 12 Table of Contents If we do not timely consummate a business combination, we will be required to dissolve, but such dissolution requires the approval of holders of a majority of our common stock in accordance with Delaware law. Without this shareholder approval, we will not be able to dissolve and liquidate and we will not distribute funds from our trust account to our public stockholders. If we do not complete a business combination within 18 months after February 14, 2007, the date we consummated our initial public offering (or within 24 months after if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement is executed within 18 months and the business combination relating thereto is not consummated within such 18-month period), our certificate of incorporation (a) provides that our corporate powers will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and we will not be able to engage in any other business activities, and (b) requires that our board of directors within 15 days adopt a resolution finding our dissolution advisable and provide notice as soon as possible thereafter of a special meeting of stockholders to vote on our dissolution. However, pursuant to Delaware law, our dissolution requires the affirmative vote of stockholders owning a majority of our then outstanding common stock. Soliciting the vote of our stockholders will require the preparation of preliminary and definitive proxy statements, which will need to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and could be subject to their review. This review process could take up to several months. As a result, distribution of our assets to our public stockholders could be subject to a considerable delay. Furthermore, we may need to postpone the stockholders’ meeting, resolicit our stockholders, or amend our plan of dissolution and liquidation to obtain the required stockholder approval, all of which would further delay the distribution of our assets and result in increased costs. If we are not able to obtain approval from a majority of our stockholders, we will not be able to dissolve and liquidate and we will not be able to distribute funds from our trust account to holders of our common stock sold in our initial public offering and these funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and liquidation and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for such a plan. However, we cannot assure you that our stockholders will approve our dissolution in a timely manner or will ever approve our dissolution. As a result, we cannot provide investors with assurances of a specific time frame for the liquidation and distribution. If our stockholders do not approve a plan of dissolution and liquidation and the funds remain in the trust account for an indeterminate amount of time, we may be considered to be an investment company. Please see the risk factor entitled “If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements, and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to consummate a business combination or operate over the near term or long term in our intended manner.” Because the initial per share amount deposited in trust was $7.82 per share, if we are unable to timely complete a business combination and we receive stockholder approval to dissolve and distribute the funds held in trust, our public stockholders may receive less than $8.00 per share upon distribution of the trust account and our redeemable warrants will expire worthless. Because the initial per share amount deposited in trust was $7.82 per share, if we are unable to complete a business combination and we receive stockholder approval to dissolve and distribute the funds held in the trust account to public stockholders, public stockholders may receive less than the $8.00 purchase price per unit as a result of the interest amounts on the trust account that may be released to us to fund working capital requirements, including expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, we will be required to pay or make reasonable provision to pay claims of creditors which we intend to do from the funds not held in trust. In addition, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. 13 Table of Contents After our business combination, we may be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Our business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several operating businesses at the same time. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. Alternatively, if our business combination entails the simultaneous acquisitions of several operating businesses at the same time from different sellers, we would face additional risks, including difficulties and expenses incurred in connection with the subsequent integration of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies into a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities other than blank check companies having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. Because only 43 of the 79 blank check companies that have gone public in the United States since August 2003 through December 31, 2006 have either consummated a business combination or entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination, it may indicate that there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities like our company or that many privately held target businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly held blank check companies like ours. If we are unable to consummate a business combination with a target business within the prescribed time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the concurrent private placements will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, as we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placements prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds (including interest earned on 14 Table of Contents the trust account released to us) in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert for cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, it is possible that we could use a portion of the funds not held in the trust account to make a deposit, down payment or fund a “no-shop” provision with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. In the event that we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach of the agreement relating to such payment or otherwise), we may not have a sufficient amount of working capital available outside of the trust account to conduct due diligence and pay other expenses related to finding a suitable business combination without securing additional financing. If we were unable to secure additional financing, we would most likely fail to consummate a business combination in the allotted time and would be forced to liquidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could limit the development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share conversion and liquidation price received by stockholders may be less than $7.82 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have vendors and service providers we engage and prospective target businesses we negotiate with, execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements or, even if they execute such agreements, that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that has refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share conversion and liquidation price could be less than $7.82, plus interest on the net proceeds held in trust (net of taxes payable and up to $2,300,000 of interest earned on the trust account that may be released to us to fund our working capital), due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, Mr. Venkatadri has agreed that he will be personally liable to cover claims made by target acquisitions, vendors and service providers, but only if, and to the extent, the claims reduce the amounts in the trust account available for payment to our stockholders in the event of a liquidation and the claims are made by a vendor for services rendered, or products sold, to us or by a prospective target business. However, Mr. Venkatadri will not have any personal liability as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party who executed a waiver, or as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933. Our other officers and directors have each agreed to be personally liable, severally, in accordance with their respective beneficial ownership interests in us, to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of various vendors and service providers for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us, but only to the extent necessary to ensure that such loss, liability, claim, damage or expense does not reduce the amount in the trust account. However, we cannot assure you that they will be able to satisfy those obligations. Further, they will not be personally liable to pay debts and obligations to prospective target businesses, if a business combination is not consummated with such prospective target businesses, or for claims from any entity other than vendors and service providers. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public 15 Table of Contents stockholders and the per-share conversion and liquidation price could be less than approximately $7.82, plus interest on the net proceeds held in trust (net of taxes payable and up to $2,300,000 of interest earned on the trust account that may be released to us to fund our working capital), due to claims of such creditors. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least $7.82 per share. Upon distribution of the trust account, our public stockholders may be held liable for claims of third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If a corporation complies with certain statutory procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that the corporation makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. The procedures in Section 280 include a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions may be made to stockholders. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time prior to distributing the funds held in the trust account to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions (but not more) received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Under Delaware law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation sets forth certain requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering that shall apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: • prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we shall submit such business combination to our stockholders for approval; • we may consummate our initial business combination if: (i) it is approved by a majority of the shares of common stock voted by public stockholders, and (ii) public stockholders owning less than 25% of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights; • if our initial business combination is approved and consummated, public stockholders who voted against the business combination and exercised their conversion rights will receive their pro rata share of (i) the portion of the trust account representing the net proceeds of our initial public offering, plus interest earned thereon not released to us, net of taxes; (ii) the deferred underwriting discounts and commissions, and (iii) the private placement proceeds; and 16 Table of Contents • if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement is not signed within the time periods specified in this report, in accordance with our amended and restated certificate of incorporation: • our corporate purposes and powers will immediately thereupon be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and we will not be able to engage in any other business activities; • our board of directors will be required to adopt, within 15 days thereafter, a resolution pursuant to Section 275(a) of the Delaware General Corporation Law finding our dissolution advisable and provide such notices to our stockholders as required by Section 275(a) as promptly thereafter as possible; and • in the event stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding common stock approve our dissolution, we must promptly adopt a plan of distribution which provides that only the public stockholders shall be entitled to receive liquidating distributions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits the amendment of the above-described provisions, which shall automatically terminate upon the consummation of a business combination. However, the validity of provisions prohibiting amendment of the certificate of incorporation under Delaware law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the prohibition on amendment violates the stockholders’ implicit rights to amend the corporate charter. In that case, the above-described provisions would be amendable and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders. However, we view the foregoing provisions as obligations to our stockholders, and we will not take any actions to waive or amend any of these provisions. We may issue shares of our capital stock or convertible debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 5,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. As of the date of this report (assuming exercise of the representatives’ unit purchase option and after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares of common stock underlying units and upon full exercise of outstanding warrants and warrants underlying units), there are 23,500,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance and all of the 5,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this report to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or blank check preferred stock, or a combination of common and blank check preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our blank check preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our public stockholders; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; • may reduce or limit the voting power or other rights of holders of our common stock if we issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, compensation or other rights superior to the common stock; and • may reduce the prevailing market prices for our common stock warrants and units. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; 17 Table of Contents • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. Company resources could be wasted in pursuing acquisitions that are not consummated. We anticipate that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention. We could incur substantial costs for accountants, attorneys, and others payable from the funds not held in trust in connection with a business combination that is not completed and may be required to pay to the potential target business a deposit or down payment or to fund a “no shop” provision. Costs incurred prior to completion of a business combination, including any for any non-refundable deposit or down payment or to fund a no shop provision, may not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons including those beyond our control such as that more than 24.99% of our stockholders vote against the transaction even if a majority of our stockholders approve the transaction. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. We may have limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of the target businesses’ management will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, maintaining internal controls or dealing with the public markets, which could cause us to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our officers and directors have limited or no experience in managing “blank check” companies which may have an adverse impact on our prospects. Although our officers and directors have experience in consummating acquisitions and managing public companies, our officers and directors do not have experience in managing “blank check” companies. Such limited experience may have an adverse impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our management, some of whom may join us following a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our management. The future role of our management following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Although we expect several of our management and other key personnel, particularly our President and Chief Executive Officer, to remain associated with us following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the 18 Table of Contents combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate the same as part of any such combination. If we acquired a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a business combination, it may be less likely that management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. If management negotiates to be retained post-business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company as well as United States securities laws which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. If our current officers and directors allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs, our ability to consummate a business combination could be negatively impacted. Our current officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers is engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs, although we expect our officers and directors and special advisor to balance their other affairs and devote sufficient time to our affairs as they deem necessary to achieve our business objective and consummate a business combination. Mr. Venkatadri serves as part-time President to a life sciences company and part-time as a General Partner to an India fund manager, and is the only officer of the company actively employed. Our directors and special advisor to the board of directors are all engaged in several other endeavors, including in financial, investment, advisor and principal capacities, but not as active employees in life sciences companies. For example, the agreement with our special advisor Rasheed Yar Khan acknowledges his other commitments, which include acting as a fund manager to the Saudi Economic Development Corporation. If our officers’ other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Although none of our officers, directors or affiliates have previously been associated with any “blank check” companies, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Further, certain of our officers and directors are currently involved in venture capital fund businesses. Due to these existing affiliations, they may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. All of our officers and directors own shares of our common 19 Table of Contents stock which will not participate in liquidation distributions and, therefore, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether or not a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors and their respective affiliates own shares of our common stock that were issued in connection with our formation as to which they have waived their right to receive distributions upon our liquidation or failure to complete a business combination. Additionally, certain of our officers and directors and their affiliates, our special advisor and Trans-India Investors Limited have purchased an aggregate of 200,000 units in private placements that occurred immediately prior to our initial offering and have waived their liquidation rights with respect to the shares included in such units. The securities owned by our officers and directors and their affiliates will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our public stockholders’ best interest. Our officers and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the available funds outside the trust account, unless the business combination is consummated and, therefore, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether or not a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Our officers and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the available funds held outside the trust account and the portion of the interest earned on the trust account released to us (which, because interest rates are unknown, may be insufficient to fund all of our working capital requirements) unless the business combination is consummated. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and, thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether or not a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. The representatives of the underwriters will have the right to acquire units pursuant to the representatives’ unit purchase option issued in our initial public offering and I-Bankers Securities, Inc. may have a conflict of interest in determining whether or not to consent to our redemption of outstanding warrants. The representatives of the underwriters were issued unit purchase options to acquire 500,000 units in the aggregate, including 500,000 warrants, upon consummation of our initial public offering. Since we may redeem the warrants only with the prior consent of I-Bankers Securities, Inc., as representative of the underwriters, which firm may also hold warrants subject to redemption, I-Bankers Securities, Inc. may have a conflict of interest in determining whether or not to consent to such redemption. We cannot assure you that I-Bankers Securities, Inc. will consent to such redemption if it is not in its best interest even if it is in our best interest. If we complete a business combination that involves a target business focused on pharmaceutical compounds or biotechnology therapeutics or diagnostics, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of drug product candidates, pharmaceutical and biotechnology therapeutic and diagnostic companies must conduct, at their own expense, extensive preclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of their product candidates. Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, is difficult to design and implement, necessarily involves substantial cooperation with and reliance on third parties, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. 20 Table of Contents Our failure to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for a product candidate following a business combination will prevent us from commercializing it. Product candidates and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including their testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, will be subject to comprehensive regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other United States regulatory agencies and by comparable authorities in other countries. Securing approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data, information about product manufacturing processes and inspection of facilities and supporting information for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. Varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. The process of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals may vary and involves substantial regulatory discretion, is expensive, and often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all. We may also have to rely on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of drug product candidates. There may be a limited number of manufacturers operating under the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, regulations that will be both capable of manufacturing our future products and willing to do so. These manufacturers will be subject to inspection to ensure strict compliance with GMP regulations and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We can not be certain that our manufacturers will be able to comply with these regulations and standards and we will not control their compliance, while we will risk regulatory sanctions, liabilities and penalties if they fail to comply. Our dependence upon others for the manufacture of product candidates and products may adversely affect our future profits and our ability, on a timely and competitive basis, both to develop product candidates and to commercialize any products that receive regulatory approval. Following a business combination, we may be liable to our clients for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information or system failures. Following a business combination, we may have access to, or may be required to collect and store, confidential client and customer data in connection with the acquired business. Following a business combination, many of our client agreements may not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of our employees, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive data, we could be subject to significant liability from our clients or from our clients’ customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Following a business combination, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. If our common stock becomes subject to the penny stock rules promulgated by the SEC, broker dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. 21 Table of Contents If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Our outstanding warrants may substantially reduce the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with our initial public offering and concurrent private placements, we issued warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. In addition, on March 12, 2007, the common stock and warrants underlying our units began trading separately. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and may reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could substantially reduce the market price for our securities or affect our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants and options are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. The warrants are redeemable upon short notice, which will require you to exercise the warrants or receive the redemption price of $0.01 per warrant. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants with the prior consent of I-Bankers Securities, Inc. upon 30 days prior notice at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of the common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period ending on the third business day prior to proper notice of such redemption. Such redemption would force you to exercise your warrants on short notice or accept the redemption price of $0.01 per warrant. An effective registration statement or a current prospectus may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants or the warrants are redeemed, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless, at the time a holder seeks to exercise, we have registered with the SEC the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Additionally, we have no obligation to settle the warrants for cash in the absence of an effective registration statement or under any other circumstances. The warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if the common stock is not registered with the SEC or if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current. Consequently, the warrants may expire unexercised or if redeemed at such time would be practically worthless. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may substantially reduce the market price of our units, common stock and warrants, and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial stockholders are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their initial securities, including units, shares of common stock and warrants, and shares of common stock underlying such securities, at any time 22 Table of Contents after the date on which their securities are released from escrow, which will be upon consummation of a business combination. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their securities, then there would be up to an additional 2,900,000 shares of common stock (which amount includes 2,500,000 shares of our common stock, 200,000 shares of common stock underlying the private placement units and 200,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants included in such units) eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of securities eligible for trading in the public market may substantially reduce the market price of our securities. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination, or increase the cost of the target business, since the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights, and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our securities. We have substantial discretion as to how to spend the proceeds of our initial public offering which are outside of the trust. Our management has broad discretion as to how to spend the proceeds of our initial public offering which are held outside of the trust account and any interest earned on the trust account released to us and may spend these proceeds in ways with which our stockholders may not agree. If we choose to invest some of the proceeds held outside of the trust account, we cannot predict that investment of the proceeds will yield a favorable return, if any. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements, and our activities may be restricted, which may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination or operate over the near term or long term in our intended manner. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our activities may be restricted, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trustee in Treasury Bills issued by the United States with maturity dates of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. However, our securities not intended for persons who are seeking a return on investments in government securities. The trust account and the purchase of government securities for the account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or (ii) absent a business combination, our dissolution and return of the funds held in this account. In addition, if we do not complete a business combination within 18 months of February 14, 2007, the date we consummation our initial public offering, or within 24 months after if the extension criteria have been satisfied, our certificate of incorporation (a) provides that our corporate powers will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and (b) requires that our board of directors within 15 days adopt a resolution finding our dissolution advisable and 23 Table of Contents provide notice as soon as possible thereafter of a special meeting of stockholders to vote on our dissolution. Inasmuch as we cannot assure you that our stockholders will approve our dissolution in a timely manner or ever approve our dissolution so that we can liquidate and distribute the funds in the trust account to public stockholders, we may nevertheless be deemed to be an investment company. If we were deemed to be subject to that act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not budgeted. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from trading on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future prior to a business combination. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Our directors may not be considered “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc. No salary or other compensation will be paid to our directors for services rendered by them on our behalf prior to or in connection with a business combination. Accordingly, we believe our non-executive directors would be considered “independent” as that term is commonly used. However, under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., an international organization devoted to investor protection, because each of our directors own shares of our securities and may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf (such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations), state securities administrators could argue that all of such individuals are not “independent.” If this were the case, they would take the position that we would not have the benefit of any independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not they are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, and a material adverse effect on the prices of our securities held by public stockholders. Because after the consummation of a business combination a significant portion of our assets may be located outside of the United States, it may be difficult for investors to enforce their legal rights against such assets. After the consummation of a business combination, a significant portion of our assets may be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their 24 Table of Contents legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers, or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. Risks Related to Operations in India Acquisitions of companies with operations in India entail special considerations and risks. If we are successful in acquiring a target business with operations in India, we will be subject to, and possibly adversely affected by, the following risks: Political, economic, social and other factors in India may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objective. Our ability to achieve our business objectives may be adversely affected by political, economic, social and religious factors, changes in Indian law or regulations and the status of India’s relations with other countries. In addition, the economy of India may differ favorably or unfavorably from the U.S. economy in such respects as the rate of growth of gross domestic product, the rate of inflation, capital reinvestment, resource self-sufficiency and balance of payments position. According to the World Factbook published by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (updated as of September 7, 2006), the Indian government has exercised and continues to exercise significant influence over many aspects of the economy, and privatization of government-owned industries proceeds at a slow pace. Accordingly, Indian government actions in the future could have a significant effect on the Indian economy, which could have a material adverse affect on our ability to achieve our business objective. According to a published lecture on April 27, 2005 by Shri Montek S. Ahluwalia, Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission of the High Commission of India, London, an agency of the Indian Government, India has seen major changes in economic policies over the past two decades, which will help it to perform more effectively in a globalising world. These policy changes have included the liberalization of the extensive government controls, which existed on private investment and technology and the easing of access to foreign technology and foreign investment. In addition, the Indian government has directed the lowering of import duties, removal of quantitative restrictions on imports and the liberalization of foreign direct investment. In the 1990s a process of financial reforms began, which were aimed at introducing greater competition and tightening prudential norms in the banking sector, stock exchanges and capital market institutions and the insurance sector. These reforms were accompanied by efforts to strengthen institutions appropriate for the functioning of a market economy, including an independent judiciary and the rule of law, the prevalence of acceptable accounting standards, functioning stock exchanges and corporate practices. While the government’s policies have resulted in improved economic performance, we cannot assure you that the economic recovery will be sustained. Moreover, we cannot assure you that these economic reforms will persist, and that any newly elected government will continue the program of economic liberalization of previous governments. Any change may adversely affect Indian laws and policies with respect to foreign investment and currency exchange. Such changes in economic policies could negatively affect the general business and economic conditions in India, which could in turn affect us and our ability to achieve our business objective. According to the World Factbook, religious and border disputes persist in India and remain pressing problems. For example, India has from time to time experienced civil unrest and hostilities with neighboring countries such as Pakistan. The longstanding dispute with Pakistan over the border Indian states of Jammu and Kashmir, a majority of whose population is Muslim, remains unresolved. If the Indian government is unable to control the violence and disruption associated with these tensions, the results could destabilize the economy and, consequently, adversely affect us and our ability to achieve our business objective. Since early 2003, there have also been military hostilities and civil unrest in Afghanistan, Iraq and other nearby countries. These events could adversely influence the Indian economy and, as a result, negatively affect us and our ability to achieve our business objective. 25 Table of Contents Exchange controls that exist in India may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. Following a business combination, we will be subject to India’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In India, the Foreign Exchange Management Act or FEMA, regulates the conversion of the Indian rupee into foreign currencies. FEMA provisions previously imposed restrictions on locally incorporated companies with foreign equity holdings in excess of 40% known as FEMA companies. Following a business combination, we will likely be a FEMA company as a result of our ownership structure. However, comprehensive amendments have been made to FEMA to add strength to the liberalizations announced in their recent economic policies. Such companies are now permitted to operate in India without any special restrictions, effectively placing them on par with domestic Indian companies. In addition, foreign exchange controls have been substantially relaxed. The Indian foreign exchange market, however, is not yet fully developed and we cannot assure you that the Indian authorities will not revert back to regulating FEMA companies. FEMA may also impose new restrictions on the convertibility of the rupee. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations we may have outside of India. Returns on investment in Indian companies may be decreased by withholding and other taxes. Our investments in India will incur tax risk unique to investment in India and in developing economies in general. Income that might otherwise not be subject to withholding of local income tax under normal international conventions may be subject to withholding of Indian income tax. Under treaties with India and under local Indian income tax law, income is generally sourced in India and subject to Indian tax if paid from India. This is true whether or not the services or the earning of the income would normally be considered as from sources outside India in other contexts. Additionally, proof of payment of withholding taxes may be required as part of the remittance procedure. Any withholding taxes paid by us on income from our investments in India may or may not be creditable on our income tax returns. We intend to avail ourselves of income tax treaties with India following a business combination to seek to minimize any Indian withholding tax or local tax otherwise imposed. However, we cannot assure you that the Indian tax authorities will recognize application of such treaties to achieve a minimization of Indian tax. We may also elect to create one or more foreign subsidiaries to effect the business combination to attempt to limit the potential tax consequences of a business combination. Certain sectors of the Indian economy are subject to government regulations that limit foreign ownership, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objective which is to acquire one or more operating businesses with primary operations in India. The Indian government prohibits investments in certain sectors and limits the ownership of entities in certain other sectors. We intend to avoid sectors in which foreign investment is disallowed. This could limit the possible number of acquisitions that are available. The Indian government also regulates investments in certain other sectors (e.g. banking) by increasing the required amount of Indian ownership over time. We will evaluate the risk associated with investments in sectors in which ownership is restricted. However, we cannot assure you that management will be correct in its assessment of political and policy risks associated with investments in general and in particular in sectors that are regulated by the Indian government. Any changes in policy could have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve our business objective. If the relevant Indian authorities find us or the target business with which we ultimately complete a business combination to be in violation of any existing or future Indian laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: • levying fines; • revoking our business and other licenses; and • requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations. 26 Table of Contents Because the Indian judiciary will determine the scope and enforcement under Indian law of almost all of our target business’ material agreements, we may be unable to enforce our rights inside and outside of India. Indian law can be expected to govern almost all of our target business’ material agreements, some of which may be with Indian governmental agencies. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of their material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of India. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in India may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The Indian government may be inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. The commercial success of any products under development by a target business we acquire will depend upon product superiority and sales and marketing efforts that together successfully generate continuing market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. Any products or services that we bring to the market following a business combination may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community, unless they offer superior therapeutic or diagnostic benefits and safety that are communicated through effective sales and marketing efforts. If we do not achieve such acceptance, we may not generate material new product revenues or profits. Moreover, the healthcare industry is intensely competitive, and we will face competition with respect to current and future products, such that any market acceptance we do achieve will be subject to continual threat, including from market participants with substantially greater resources. Wage pressures in India may prevent an acquired company from sustaining a competitive advantage and may reduce its profit margins. Wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which we expect will be one of the competitive strengths of a company we acquire. However, if, following a business combination, wages for skilled professionals increase in India due to increasing competition, we may not be able to sustain this competitive advantage, which could negatively affect profit margins. In addition, we may need to increase the levels of an acquired company’s employee compensation to remain competitive with other employers, or seek to recruit in other low labor cost areas to keep its wage costs low. Compensation increases may result in decreased profitability of a company we acquire. India has different corporate disclosure, governance and regulatory requirements than those in the United States which may make it more difficult or complex to consummate a business combination. Companies in India are subject to accounting, auditing, regulatory and financial standards and requirements that differ, in some cases significantly, from those applicable to public companies in the United States, which may make it more difficult or complex to consummate a business combination. In particular, the assets and profits appearing on the financial statements of an Indian company may not reflect its financial position or results of operations in the way they would be reflected had such financial statements been prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principals, or GAAP. Moreover, companies in India are subject to a different regulatory scheme than United States companies with respect to such matters as insider trading rules, tender offer regulation, shareholder proxy requirements and the timely disclosure of information. Accordingly, appropriate adjustments to the financial statements of an Indian company may be required in order to appropriately determine the underlying valuation of the Indian company. Legal principles relating to corporate affairs and the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ fiduciary duties and liabilities and shareholders’ rights for Indian corporations may differ from those that may apply in the 27 Table of Contents United States, which may make the consummation of a business combination with an Indian company more difficult than a business combination with a company based in the United States. The requirement that Indian companies provide accounting statements that are in compliance with United States GAAP may limit the potential number of acquisition targets. To meet the requirements of the United States Federal securities laws, in order to seek stockholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to, GAAP and audited in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Auditing Standards, or GAAS. GAAP and GAAS compliance may limit the potential number of acquisition targets. Foreign currency fluctuations could cause a business combination to be more expensive. Because our business objective is to acquire one or more operating businesses with primary operations in India, changes in the U.S. dollar-Indian rupee exchange rate may affect our ability to achieve such objective. The exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar has changed substantially in the last two decades and may fluctuate substantially in the future. If the U.S. dollar declines in value against the Indian rupee, any business combination will be more expensive and therefore more difficult to complete. Furthermore, we may incur costs in connection with conversions between United States dollars and Indian rupees, which may make it more difficult to consummate a business combination. If political relations between the United States and India weaken, it could make a target business’ operations less attractive. The relationship between the United States and India may deteriorate over time. Changes in political conditions in India and changes in the state of Indian-United States relations are difficult to predict and could result in restrictions on our future operations or cause potential target businesses to become less attractive. This could lead to a decline in our profitability following a business combination. The laws of India may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as those of the United States, and we may be unsuccessful in protecting intellectual property rights following a business combination and may also be subject to third party claims of intellectual property infringement. The one or more businesses we acquire will likely rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and design laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect its intellectual property. However, the laws of India may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Therefore, efforts to protect such intellectual property may not be adequate. Furthermore, competitors may independently develop similar technology or duplicate its products or services. Unauthorized parties may infringe upon or misappropriate its products, services or proprietary information. Item 1B. UNRESOLEVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 