Item 1A. Risk Factors Ownership of our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information set forth herein. Events or circumstances arising from one or more of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects, and the value and market price of our securities could decline. The risks identified below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all risks we face and additional risks that we may currently view as not material may also impair our business operations and results. Unless otherwise specified, references to “we,” “our” and “us” in this subsection mean First California and its subsidiaries. Risks Related to Our Business Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The global, U.S. and California economies are experiencing significantly reduced business activity and consumer spending as a result of, among other factors, disruptions in the capital and credit markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the past several years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: ● a decrease in the demand for loans or other products and services offered by us; ● a decrease in the value of our loans or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; ● a decrease to deposit balances due to overall reductions in the accounts of customers; ● an impairment of certain intangible assets or investment securities; ● a decreased ability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all; or ● an increase in the number of borrowers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for credit losses, which would reduce our earnings Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Recent and future legislation and regulatory initiatives to address current market and economic conditions may not achieve their intended objectives, including stabilizing the U.S. banking system or reviving the overall economy. Recent and future legislative and regulatory initiatives to address current market and economic conditions, such as Dodd-Frank, EESA or the ARRA, may not achieve their intended objectives, including stabilizing the U.S. banking system or reviving the overall economy. EESA was enacted in October 2008 to restore confidence and stabilize the volatility in the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Treasury and banking regulators have implemented, and likely will continue to implement, various other programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, the CPP, President Obama’s Financial Stability Plan announced in February 2009, the ARRA and the FDIC’s TLGP. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that any of the recent, or future, legislative and regulatory initiatives will have on the financial markets and the overall economy. Any failure of these initiatives to help stabilize or improve the financial markets and the economy, and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Many aspects of Dodd-Frank are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us and the financial services industry more generally. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for several years. The volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional requirements under our regulatory framework, especially those imposed under Dodd-Frank, ARRA, EESA or other legislation intended to strengthen the U.S. financial system, could adversely affect us. 16 Recent government efforts to strengthen the U.S. financial system, including the implementation of Dodd-Frank, ARRA, EESA, the TLGP and special assessments imposed by the FDIC, subject participants to additional regulatory fees and requirements, including corporate governance requirements, executive compensation restrictions, restrictions on declaring or paying dividends, restrictions on share repurchases, limits on executive compensation tax deductions and prohibitions against golden parachute payments. These requirements, and any other requirements that may be subsequently imposed, may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our growth presents certain risks, including a possible decline in credit quality or capital adequacy. The asset growth experienced by National Mercantile and FCB in the years prior to the Mergers and by us after the Mergers presents certain risks. While we believe we have maintained good credit quality notwithstanding such growth, rapid growth is frequently associated with a decline in credit quality. Accordingly, continued asset growth could lead to a decline in credit quality in the future. In addition, continued asset growth could cause a decline in capital adequacy for regulatory purposes, which could in turn cause us to have to raise additional capital in the future to maintain or regain “well capitalized” status as defined under applicable banking regulations. We may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. Dodd-Frank requires federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements that will apply to both insured banks and their holding companies. Implementing regulations must be issued within 18 months of July 21, 2010. Implementation of these standards, or any other new regulations, including Basel III, may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or require us to reduce business levels or raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our results of operations of financial condition. Our performance and growth are dependent on maintaining a high quality of service for our customers, and will be impaired by a decline in our quality of service. Our growth will be dependent on maintaining a high quality of service for our customers. As a result of the Mergers and the corresponding growth, it may become increasingly difficult to maintain high service quality for our customers. This could cause a decline in our performance and growth with respect to net income, deposits, assets and other benchmarks. The fair value of our investment securities can fluctuate due to market conditions out of our control. Our investment securities portfolio is comprised mainly of U.S. treasury notes/bills, U.S. government agency notes, U.S. government agency mortgage-backed securities and U.S. government agency collateralized mortgage obligations. At December 31, 2010, gross unrealized losses on our investment portfolio were $7.1 million. The majority of unrealized losses at December 31, 2010 were related to a type of mortgage-backed security also known as private-label collateralized mortgage obligations. As of December 31, 2010, the amortized cost of these securities, rated triple-A at purchase, was $20.4 million and the gross unrealized loss was $3.5 million and these securities represented 6 percent of our securities portfolio. We also own one pooled trust preferred security, rated triple-A at purchase, with an amortized cost basis of $4.7 million and an unrealized loss of $1.9 million at December 31, 2010. This unrealized loss is primarily caused by a severe disruption in the market for these securities. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include but are not limited to rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, changes in market interest rates and continued instability in the credit markets. Any of these mentioned factors could cause an other-than-temporary impairment in future periods and result in a realized loss. If borrowers and guarantors fail to perform as required by the terms of their loans, we will sustain losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if our borrowers and guarantors fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and guaranties. This risk increases when the economy is weak. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable loan and lease losses. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan and lease losses, and future provisions for credit losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is 17 susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal and state regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover probable losses, it is possible that we will further increase the allowance for loan losses or that regulators will require increases. Either of these occurrences could materially and negatively affect our earnings. The banking business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. It is expected that we will continue to realize income from the differential between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest margin is affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. We may not be able to minimize our interest rate risk. In addition, while an increase in the general level of interest rates may increase our net interest margin and loan yield, it may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers with variable rate loans to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest margin, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services which could negatively affect our business. We conduct our banking operations in Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, San Diego and Ventura counties, California. Increased competition in these markets may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services that we offer in our service areas. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including without limitation, savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalizations and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits than we have and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened low-end production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue to grow our loan and deposit portfolios and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be adversely affected. Changes in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in Southern California, could materially and negatively affect our business. Our business is directly impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. Any further deterioration in economic conditions, whether caused by national or local concerns, in particular any further economic slowdown in Southern California, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decrease; low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease; and collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. The State of California and certain local governments in our market area continue to face fiscal challenges upon which the long-term impact on the State’s or the local economy cannot be predicted. A portion of our loan portfolio consists of construction and land development loans in Southern California, which have greater risks than loans secured by completed real properties. At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding construction and land development loans in Southern California in the amount of $61.4 million, representing 6% of its loan portfolio. These types of loans generally have greater risks than loans on completed homes, multifamily properties and commercial properties. A construction loan generally does not cover the full amount of the construction costs, so the borrower must have adequate funds to pay for the balance of the project. Price increases, delays and unanticipated difficulties can materially increase these costs. Further, even if completed, there is no assurance that the borrower will be able to sell the project on a timely or profitable basis, as these are closely related to real estate market conditions, which can fluctuate substantially between the start and completion of the project. If the borrower 18 defaults prior to completion of the project, the value of the project will likely be less than the outstanding loan, and we could be required to complete construction with our own funds to minimize losses on the project. Further disruptions in the real estate market could materially and negatively affect our business. There has been a slow-down in the real estate market due to negative economic trends and credit market disruption, the impacts of which are not yet completely known or quantified. At December 31, 2010, approximately 76% of our loans are secured by real estate. Any further downturn in the real estate market could materially and adversely affect our business because a significant portion of our loans is secured by real estate. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. An increase in losses on defaulted loans may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations, by reducing income, increasing expenses, and leaving less cash available for lending and other activities. Substantially all of our real property loan collateral is located in Southern California. Real estate values have declined recently, particularly in California. If real estate sales and appreciation continue to weaken, especially in Southern California, the collateral for our loans would provide less security. Real estate values have been and could be affected by, among other things, an economic recession or slowdown, an increase in interest rates, earthquakes, brush fires, flooding and other natural disasters particular to California. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. There are currently proposed laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. For example, Dodd-Frank was signed into law in July 2010. Dodd-Frank will have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes, such as: (1) enhanced resolution authority of troubled and failing banks and their holding companies; (2) enhanced lending limits strengthening the existing limits on a depository institution’s credit exposure to one borrower; (3) increased capital and liquidity requirements; (4) increased regulatory examination fees; (5) changes to assessments to be paid to the FDIC for federal deposit insurance; (6) prohibiting bank holding companies, such as us, from including in regulatory Tier 1 capital future issuances of trust preferred securities or other hybrid debt and equity securities; and (7) numerous other provisions designed to improve supervision and oversight of, and strengthening safety and soundness for, the financial services sector. Additionally, Dodd-Frank establishes a new framework for systemic risk oversight within the financial system to be distributed among new and existing federal regulatory agencies, including the Financial Stability Oversight Council, the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the FDIC. Further, Dodd-Frank addresses many corporate governance and executive compensation matters that will affect most U.S. publicly traded companies, including us. Many of the requirements called for in Dodd-Frank will be implemented over time and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of Dodd-Frank will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from Dodd-Frank may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In particular, the potential impact of Dodd-Frank on our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively, include, among others: ● a reduction in our ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets as a result of compliance with heightened capital standards; ● increased cost of operations due to greater regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of banks and bank holding companies, and higher deposit insurance premiums; ● the limitation on our ability to raise capital through the use of trust preferred securities as these securities will no longer be included in Tier 1 capital going forward; and ● the limitation on our ability to expand consumer product and service offerings due to anticipated stricter consumer protection laws and regulations Further, we may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes in order to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors. In addition, there are other currently proposed laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. For example, federal bank regulators recently 19 proposed regulations that would (1) require banking organizations to report the structures of all incentive-based compensation arrangements and (2) prohibit incentive-based payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks by providing employees, directors, or principal shareholders with excessive compensation or that could lead to material financial loss to the organization. Additionally, in order to conduct certain activities and transactions, including acquisitions, we are required to obtain regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that any required approvals can be obtained, or obtained without conditions or on a timeframe acceptable to us. For more information, please see the section entitled “Item 1. Business-Supervision and Regulation” above. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our internal operations are subject to a number of risks. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud, security breaches of our computer systems and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls and uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. We rely on third parties in a variety of ways, including to provide key components of our business infrastructure or to further our business objectives. These third parties may provide services to us and our clients or serve as partners in business activities. We rely on these third parties to fulfill their obligations to us, to accurately inform us of relevant information and to conduct their activities professionally and in a manner that reflects positively on us. Any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could harm our business and operations, financial performance, strategic growth or reputation. We face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may engage in strategic activities, which may include acquisitions, investments, asset purchases or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. In order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might obtain additional equity or debt financing. Such financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to execute strategic activities successfully will depend on a variety of factors. These factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating the operations, services, products, personnel and systems of an acquired company into our business, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management’s expectations and otherwise realizing the undertaking’s anticipated benefits. Our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. In addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management’s attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. If we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. We depend heavily on the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, C. G. Kum, our Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Romolo C. Santarosa and a number of other key management personnel. 20 The loss of any of their services or that of other key personnel could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends in part on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. We may incur impairments to goodwill. We assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or at interim periods if an event occurs or circumstances change which may indicate a change in the implied fair value of the goodwill. Impairment exists when the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. It is our practice to perform the annual impairment assessment at the end of our fiscal year and to use independent data to assist us in determining the fair value of the Company and in determining appropriate market factors to be used in the fair value calculations. At December 31, 2010 the annual assessment resulted in the conclusion that goodwill was not impaired. A significant decline in our stock price, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant change in the fair values of our assets and liabilities, a significant adverse change in the business climate or slower growth rates could result in impairment of our goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill is necessary, then we would record the appropriate non-cash charge, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We are a holding company and depend on our banking subsidiary for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a holding company that conducts substantially all our operations through our banking subsidiary, First California Bank. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments on our common and preferred stock and debt service payments depends upon the ability of First California Bank to make payments, distributions and loans to us. The ability of First California Bank to make payments, distributions and loans to us is limited by, among other things, its earnings, its obligation to maintain sufficient capital, and by applicable regulatory restrictions. For example, if, in the opinion of an applicable regulatory authority, First California Bank is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, which could include the payment of dividends under certain circumstances, such authority may take actions requiring that First California Bank refrain from the practice. Additionally, under applicable California law, First California Bank generally cannot make any distribution (including a cash dividend) to its stockholder, us, in an amount which exceeds the lesser of: (1) the retained earnings of First California Bank and (2) the net income of First California Bank for its last three fiscal years, less the amount of any distributions made by First California Bank to its stockholder during such period. If First California Bank is not able to make payments, distributions and loans to us, we may not be unable to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock or make debt service payments. The imposition of certain restrictions on our executive compensation as a result of our decision to participate in the CPP may have material adverse effects on our business and results of operations. As a result of our election to participate in the CPP, we must adopt the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds equity issued under the CPP. These standards would generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated executive officers (collectively, the “senior executive officers”). The standards include: (i) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executive officers does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of our Company and the Bank, (ii) requiring a clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive officer based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate, (iii) prohibiting golden parachute payments to a senior executive officer, and (iv) our agreement not to deduct for tax purposes compensation paid to a senior executive officer in excess of $500,000. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation may increase our income tax expense in future periods if compensation to a senior executive officer exceeds $500,000. In conjunction with its purchase of the series B cumulative perpetual preferred stock, the Treasury acquired a warrant to purchase 599,042 shares of our common stock. A portion of the warrant is immediately exercisable and has a term of 10 years. Therefore, we could potentially be subject to the executive compensation and corporate governance restrictions for a ten-year period as a result of our participation in the CPP. If we are unable to redeem the Series B Preferred Stock within five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the series B cumulative perpetual preferred stock prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $1.25 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $2.25 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the series B cumulative perpetual preferred stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity and our earnings available to common stockholders. 21 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Certain preferences and rights of preferred stockholders of First California may negatively affect the rights of holders of First California common stock. First California’s certificate of incorporation authorizes its Board of Directors to issue up to 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, powers and restrictions granted or imposed upon any series of preferred stock without prior stockholder approval. The preferred stock that may be authorized could have preference over holders of First California common stock with respect to dividends and other distributions upon the liquidation or dissolution of First California. If First California’s Board of Directors authorizes the issuance of additional series of preferred shares having a voting preference over common stock, such issuances may inhibit or delay the approval of measures supported by holders of common stock that require stockholder approval and consequently may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and Board of Directors. Accordingly, such issuance could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or change of our management and Board of Directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the stockholders’ ability to realize any potential change of control premium. Currently, in the event of a voluntary or involuntary liquidation or dissolution, holders of series A convertible perpetual preferred stock of First California are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $1,000 plus an amount equal to 8.5% per annum of the $1,000, which is deemed to have commenced accrual on December 10, 2001. Also, holders of series B cumulative perpetual preferred stock of First California are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $1,000 plus an accrued amount equal to 5.0% per annum of the $1,000, if any. These amounts are payable out of the assets of First California before any distribution to holders of common stock. If the number of preferred shares having a similar liquidation preference increases, the chance that holders of common stock may receive a smaller distribution upon liquidation or dissolution may be higher. Certain regulations and restrictions will affect our ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase our shares. As a result of our participation in the CPP, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our common stock has been limited. Specifically, we are not able to declare dividend payments on our common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred stock if we are in arrears on the dividends on our series B cumulative perpetual preferred stock. Further, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock without the Treasury’s approval until the third anniversary of the investment unless the series B cumulative perpetual preferred stock has been redeemed or transferred. In addition, our ability to repurchase our shares has been restricted. The Treasury’s consent generally will be required for us to make any stock repurchases until the third anniversary of the investment by the Treasury unless the series B cumulative perpetual preferred stock has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred stock may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the series B cumulative perpetual preferred stock dividends to the Treasury. Our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock may be restricted by Delaware law and under the terms of indentures governing the trust preferred securities we have issued. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is restricted in specified circumstances under indentures governing the trust preferred securities we have issued, and we may issue additional securities with similar restrictions in the future. In addition, our ability to pay any dividends to our stockholders is subject to the restrictions set forth under Delaware law. We cannot assure you that we will meet the criteria specified under these agreements or under Delaware law in the future, in which case we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock even if we were to choose to do so. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell our common stock when you want to or at prices you find attractive. We cannot predict how our common stock will trade in the future. The market value of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “RISK FACTORS” section: ● actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; ● developments related to investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve us; ● changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; ● dispositions, acquisitions and financings; ● actions of our current stockholders, including sales of our Common Stock by existing stockholders and our directors and executive officers; ● fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; ● regulatory developments; and 22 ● developments related to the financial services industry. Only a limited trading market exists for our common stock, which could lead to significant price volatility. Our common stock was designated for listing on the NASDAQ Global Market in March 2007 under the trading symbol “FCAL” and trading volumes since that time have been modest. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market of our common stock. In addition, even if a more active market in our common stock develops, we cannot assure you that such a market will continue or that stockholders will be able to sell their shares. A holder with as little as a 5% interest in First California could, under certain circumstances, be subject to regulation as a “Bank Holding Company.” Any entity (including a “group” composed of natural persons) owning 25% or more of the outstanding First California common stock, or 5% or more if such holder otherwise exercises a “controlling influence” over First California, may be subject to regulation as a “bank holding company” in accordance with the BHCA. In addition, (i) any bank holding company or foreign bank with a U.S. presence may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board under the BHCA to acquire or retain 5% or more of the outstanding First California common stock and (ii) any person other than a bank holding company may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board under the Change in Bank Control Act to acquire or retain 10% or more of the outstanding First California common stock. Becoming a bank holding company imposes certain statutory and regulatory restrictions and burdens, and might require the holder to divest all or a portion of the holder’s investment in First California. In addition, because a bank holding company is required to provide managerial and financial strength for its bank subsidiary, such a holder may be required to divest investments that may be deemed incompatible with bank holding company status, such as a material investment in a company unrelated to banking. Concentrated ownership of our common stock creates risks for our stockholders, including a risk of sudden changes in our share price. As of January 31, 2011, directors, executive officers and other affiliates of First California owned approximately 19% of First California’s outstanding common stock (not including vested option shares). As a result, if all of these stockholders were to take a common position, they would be able to significantly affect the election of directors, with respect to which stockholders are authorized to use cumulative voting, as well as the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, such as the approval of mergers or other business combinations. Such concentration may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of First California. In some situations, the interests of First California’s directors and executive officers may be different from other stockholders. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. The sale by any of our large stockholders of a significant portion of that stockholder’s holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, a group of our large stockholders can also demand that we register their shares under certain circumstances. Any such increase in the number of our publicly registered shares may cause the market price of our common stock to decline or fluctuate significantly. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock and we do not expect to pay a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. We presently intend to retain earnings and increase capital in furtherance of our overall business objectives. We will periodically review our dividend policy in view of the operating performance of the company, and may declare dividends in the future if such payments are deemed appropriate. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. On March 3, 2010, a proposal was approved by our stockholders to amend our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of our common stock from 25,000,000 shares to 100,000,000 shares. This increase in the number of our authorized shares of common stock provides us with the flexibility to consider and respond to future business opportunities and needs as they arise, including equity offerings, acquisitions, stock dividends, issuances under stock incentive plans and other corporate purposes. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 