ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry A downturn in public and private sector construction activity in the regions we serve may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A downturn in construction activity in our geographic service areas may affect demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. During fiscal year 2008, a majority of our contract revenue was generated by services rendered to public agencies in connection with private and public sector construction projects. The current recession in the United States has led to a slowdown in construction, particularly residential housing construction, in the western United States. As a result of this slowdown, our engineering services segment has suffered declines in revenue and we have made several reductions in workforce and facility leases in order to align resources to workload and reduce costs. We believe that the reductions achieved through January 2, 2009 will be sufficient to align resources with expected future demand for our services. However, should the economic slowdown continue for longer than expected or worsen, we will need to evaluate further reductions in headcount and facilities in geographic areas that are underperforming. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may also be adversely affected by conditions that impact the construction sector in general, including, among other things: •Changes in national and local market conditions due to changes in general or local economic conditions and neighborhood characteristics; •Slow-growth or no-growth initiatives or legislation; •Adverse changes in local and regional governmental policies on investment in infrastructure; •Adverse changes in federal and state policies regarding the allocation of funds to local and regional agencies; •The impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws and other regulatory requirements; •Changes in real estate tax rates and assessments; •Increases in interest rates and changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing; •Adverse changes in other governmental rules and fiscal policies; and •Earthquakes and other natural disasters, which can cause uninsured losses, and other factors which are beyond our control. Any of these factors could adversely affect the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the local and regional economies of California could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse economic and other conditions affecting the local and regional economies of California may reduce the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During fiscal year 2008, approximately 91% of our contract revenue was derived from services rendered to public agencies and, to a lesser extent, private industry in California. From 1991 to 1996, California experienced an economic downturn that had a negative impact on the construction and development sectors. This economic downturn caused us to experience cash flow difficulties and substantial operating losses. California is currently experiencing 16 Table of Contents another economic downturn, which has negatively impacted our revenue and profitability. Our revenue in fiscal year 2008 decreased by 7.1% from fiscal year 2007 and we sustained a net loss of $1.6 million for fiscal year 2008 as compared to net income of $2.1 million for fiscal year 2007. We believe the downturn in the residential housing market has had a significant impact on our results, in particular the loss of revenue from fees associated with building permits and inspection services. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. We anticipate that our current cash, cash equivalents, cash provided by operating activities and funds available through our revolving line of credit will be sufficient to meet our current and anticipated needs for general corporate purposes during the next 12 months. It is possible, however, that we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise have the capital resources to meet our future capital needs. For example, at the end of our third and fourth fiscal quarters in 2008, we did not meet certain financial covenants under our revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association ("Wells Fargo"). As of January 2, 2009, we had no outstanding borrowings under this facility, but as a result of these covenant violations, Wells Fargo was no longer obligated to extend funds to us under the revolving credit agreement. Wells Fargo has waived these breaches and eliminated or modified certain financial covenants in the credit agreement in exchange for a reduction in the commitment from $10 million to $5 million, increased pricing and additional collateral being provided. However, we cannot provide any assurance that Wells Fargo will make any loans under the facility if we violate the remaining financial covenant in the future. If we fail to comply with this or any other covenant in the credit agreement, any loans outstanding at that time could be accelerated by Wells Fargo and Wells Fargo would not be obligated to make any new loans under the revolving credit facility. If this occurs and we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise, we may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies, which include the following: •Hire additional personnel; •Develop new or enhance existing service lines; •Expand our business geographically; •Enhance our operating infrastructure; •Acquire complementary businesses; or •Otherwise respond to competitive pressures. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt or equity securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of strategic opportunities, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Reductions in state and local government budgets could negatively impact their capital spending and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Several of our state and local government clients are currently facing budget deficits, resulting in smaller budgets and reduced capital spending, which has negatively impacted our revenue and profitability. Our state and local government clients may continue to face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding new or existing projects. In addition, existing and potential clients may either 17 Table of Contents postpone entering into new contracts or request price concessions. If we are not able to reduce our costs quickly enough to respond to the revenue decline from these clients that may occur, our operating results would be adversely affected. Accordingly, these factors affect our ability to accurately forecast our future revenue and earnings from business areas that may be adversely impacted by market conditions. Legislation may be enacted that limits the ability of state, regional or local agencies to contract for our privatized services. Such legislation would affect our ability to obtain new contracts and may decrease the demand for our services. Legislation is proposed periodically, particularly in California, that attempts to limit the ability of governmental agencies to contract with private consultants to provide services. Should such legislation pass and be upheld, demand for our services may be materially adversely affected. During fiscal year 2008, approximately 91% of our contract revenue was derived from services rendered to public agencies in California. While attempts at such legislation have failed in the past, as the composition of California's legislative body changes over time there is an increased risk that measures could be adopted in the future that limit the market for privatized services. State and other public employee unions may bring litigation that seeks to limit the ability of public agencies to contract with private firms to perform government employee functions in the area of public improvements. Judicial determinations in favor of these unions could affect our ability to compete for contracts and may have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Over at least the last 20 years, state and other public employee unions have challenged the validity of propositions, legislation, charters and other government regulations that allow public agencies to contract with private firms to provide services in the fields of engineering, design and construction of public improvements that might otherwise be provided by public employees. These challenges could have the affect of eliminating, or severely restricting, the ability of municipalities to hire private firms for the purpose of designing and constructing public improvements, and otherwise require them to use union employees to perform the services. For example, the Professional Engineers in California Government, or PECG, a union representing state civil service employees, has been challenging Caltrans' hiring of private firms since 1986, and in 2002 began a judicial challenge of Caltrans' hiring practices based on Caltrans' interpretation of the effect of Proposition 35 (Professional Engineers in California Government, et al. v. Jeff Morales, et al.). The California Supreme Court ruled in favor of Caltrans, concluding that Caltrans may hire private contractors to perform architectural and engineering services on public works. Although Caltrans was successful in this recent litigation, similar claims may be brought in the future and we cannot predict their outcome. If a state or other public employee union is successful in its challenge and as a result the ability of state agencies to hire private firms is severely limited, such a decision would likely lead to additional litigation challenging the ability of the state, counties, municipalities and other public agencies to hire private engineering, architectural and other firms, the outcome of which could affect our ability to compete for contracts and may have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Changes in elected or appointed officials could have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain an existing contract with or obtain additional contracts from a public agency. Since the decision to retain our services is made by individuals, such as city managers, city councils and other elected or appointed officials, our business and financial results or condition could be adversely affected by the results of local and regional elections. A change in the individuals responsible for selecting consultants for and awarding contracts on behalf of a public agency due to an election could adversely affect our ability to retain an existing contract with or obtain additional contracts from such public agency. 18 Table of Contents Fixed price contracts under which we perform some of our services impose risks to our ability to maintain or grow our profitability. In fiscal year 2008, approximately 27% of our contract revenue was derived from fixed price contracts, which increased from 16% in fiscal year 2007. This increase was primarily a result of our June 2008 acquisition of Willdan Energy Solutions, which has fixed price provisions in a higher percentage of their contracts than our other operating subsidiaries. Under fixed price contracts, we perform services under a contract at a stipulated price which protects clients but exposes us to a greater number of risks than time-and-materials and unit-based contracts. These risks include: •Underestimation of costs; •Ambiguities in specifications; •Problems with new technologies; •Unforeseen costs or difficulties; •Failures of subcontractors; •Delays beyond our control; and •Economic and other changes that may occur during the contract period. The occurrence of any such risk could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Because we primarily provide services to municipalities and other public agencies, we are more susceptible to the unique risks associated with government contracts. We primarily work for municipalities and other public agencies. Consequently, we are exposed to certain risks associated with government contracting, any one of which can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks include: •The ability of the public agency to terminate the contract with 30 days' prior notice or less; •Changes in government spending and fiscal policies which can have an adverse effect on demand for our services; •Contracts that are subject to government budget cycles, and often are subject to renewal on an annual basis; •The often wide variation of the types and pricing terms of contracts from agency to agency; •The difficulty of obtaining change orders and additions to contracts; and •The requirement to perform periodic audits as a condition of certain contract arrangements. Changes in the perceived risk of acts of terrorism or natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our Willdan Homeland Solutions business. If there is a significant decrease in the perceived risk of the likelihood that one or more acts of terrorism will be conducted in the United States, or a significant decrease in the perceived risk of the occurrence of natural disasters, our ability to grow and generate revenue through Willdan Homeland Solutions, or WHS, could be negatively affected. WHS provides training and consulting services to local and regional agencies related to preparing for and responding to incidents of terrorism and natural disaster. Should the perceived risk of such incidence decline, federal and state funding for homeland security and emergency preparedness could be reduced which might decrease demand for our services and have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents The loss of certain of our key executives could adversely affect our business, including our ability to secure and complete engagements and attract and retain employees. We have experienced significant turnover in our management team since 2006. In 2006, our co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, Dan Heil, passed away unexpectedly. Just prior to Mr. Heil's death, and at his recommendation, our Board of Directors elected Win Westfall to succeed Mr. Heil. Mr. Westfall resigned as our Chief Executive Officer in February 2007 and we appointed Thomas Brisbin as our new President and Chief Executive Officer in April 2007. In July 2007, Kimberly Gant was appointed as our Chief Financial Officer when Mallory McCamant, our former Chief Financial Officer, assumed the role of Chief Operations Officer. Ms. McCamant resigned in May 2008. Additionally, Richard Kopecky, our former Senior Vice President and President of Willdan Engineering, was terminated in February 2007 and replaced by David Hunt, who has been with us for more than 21 years. In December 2008, Daniel Chow replaced Mr. Hunt as Chief Executive Officer and President of Willdan Engineering and Mr. Hunt assumed the role of Chief Operations Officer for Willdan Engineering. Because of the turnover of our management team, any additional losses of our management team or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, including the ability to secure or complete contracts and to attract and retain additional employees. Our success is highly dependent upon the efforts, talents, abilities, marketing skills and operational execution of our key executives and managers. Our ability to grow and compete in our industry will be hampered if we are unable to retain the continued service of our key professionals or to identify, hire and retain additional qualified professionals. A critical factor to our business is our ability to attract and retain qualified professionals. We are continually at risk of losing current professionals or being unable to hire additional professionals as needed. If we are unable to attract new qualified employees, our ability to grow will be adversely affected. If we are unable to retain current employees, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We would also be increasing our competition, as former employees pose the greatest threat of significant competition to our business. We operate in a highly fragmented industry, and we may not be able to compete effectively with our larger competitors. The market for services in the engineering, municipal consulting, public finance consulting, geotechnical, homeland security and other technical services industries is competitive and highly fragmented. Contract awards are based primarily on quality of service, relevant experience, staffing capabilities, reputation, geographic presence, stability and price. Some of our competitors in certain service areas have more personnel and greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. With regard to engineering related services, which represented approximately 78% and 82% of our contract revenue for fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively, our competitors include many larger consulting firms such as AECOM Technology Corporation, CH2M Hill, Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. and Tetra Tech, Inc. In certain public finance consulting services, we may compete with large accounting firms, such as Ernst & Young LLP. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future with these or other competitors. Our services may expose us to liability in excess of our current insurance coverage, which may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our services involve significant risks of professional and other liabilities, which may substantially exceed the fees we derive from our services. In addition, from time to time, we assume liabilities as a 20 Table of Contents result of indemnification provisions contained in our service contracts. We cannot predict the magnitude of these potential liabilities. We currently maintain general liability insurance, with coverage in the amount of $1.0 million per occurrence, subject to a $2.0 million general aggregate limit; and professional liability insurance, with $5.0 million in coverage per claim, and a $10.0 million annual aggregate limit. We also carry excess coverage of an additional $9.0 million for general, automobile and employer's liability claims. Claims may be made against us that exceed these limits. We are liable to pay claims from our assets if and when the aggregate settlement or judgment amount exceeds our policy limits. In 2002, we experienced two claims against our professional liability insurance that exceeded by $3.1 million the aggregate annual limit of our coverage, which at that time was $5.0 million. Following resolution of these disputes, we were liable for the $3.1 million in excess of our policy limits. Our professional liability policy is a "claims made" policy. Thus, only claims made during the term of the policy are covered. If we terminate our professional liability policy and do not obtain retroactive coverage, we would be uninsured for claims made after termination even if these claims are based on events or acts that occurred during the term of the policy. Further, our insurance may not protect us against liability because our policies typically have various exceptions to the claims covered and also require us to assume some costs of the claim even though a portion of the claim may be covered. In addition, if we expand into new markets, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage for these new activities or, if insurance is obtained, the dollar amount of any liabilities incurred could exceed our insurance coverage. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of significant magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. The quality of our service and our ability to perform under some of our contracts would be adversely affected if qualified subconsultants are unavailable for us to engage. Under some of our contracts, we rely on the efforts and skills of subconsultants for the performance of some of the tasks. In fiscal years 2008 and 2007, subconsultant costs comprised approximately 10.6% and 5.8%, respectively, of our contract revenue. The absence of qualified subconsultants with whom we have a satisfactory relationship could adversely affect the quality of our service offerings and therefore our financial results. Potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we intend to consider acquisitions of companies that are complementary to our business, such as our acquisition of Intergy Corporation in June 2008. Appropriate acquisitions could allow us to expand into new geographical locations, offer new services, or acquire additional talent. Accordingly, our future performance will be impacted by our ability to identify appropriate businesses to acquire, negotiate favorable terms for such acquisitions and then effectively and efficiently integrate such acquisitions into our existing businesses. There is no certainty that we will succeed in such endeavors. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: •Difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; •Difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the target company; •Diversion of our financial and management resources from existing operations; 21 Table of Contents •The price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; •Risks of entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; •Potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company's business; •Assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company's services; and •Inability to generate sufficient net income to justify the acquisition costs. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairment in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could lower the market price of our common stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of amounts that we anticipate. If we fail to comply with the requirements imposed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, we are required to provide a management certification on our internal controls over financial reporting. Because we are a smaller reporting company, we will be required to provide an attestation report related to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm for the first time for fiscal year 2009. In order to achieve compliance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, in 2007 we engaged outside professional consultants to assist us in documenting and evaluating our internal control over financial reporting. This exercise was both costly and challenging. We believe the efforts we have put forth to date give us the basis to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. When our independent auditors attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting this upcoming fiscal year end and in future years, our auditors may not agree with our management's conclusion and, as a result, may not be able to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. Moreover, the costs to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, as presently in effect, could continue to be significant. In addition, during the course of testing the design and effectiveness of our internal controls, we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to allow for an unqualified report from our independent registered public accounting firm. Furthermore, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs as a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur prior to November 2006 as a private company. New rules and regulations for public companies may increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more 22 Table of Contents time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect rules and regulations applicable to public companies to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. The concentration of ownership of our stock may delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and as a result may hinder the ability of our stockholders to take advantage of a premium offer. The concentration of ownership of our stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company or a change in our management and may adversely affect the voting or other rights of other holders of our common stock. As of March 19, 2009 our directors and executive officers beneficially own 1,325,229 shares of common stock, or approximately 18.2% of our outstanding common stock. Of these shares, 923,120 shares, or approximately 12.8% of our outstanding common stock, are owned by Linda L. Heil, a member of our board of directors. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information In addition to current and historical information, this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to our future operations, prospects, potential products, services, developments and business strategies. These statements can, in some cases, be identified by the use of words like "may," "will," "should," "could," "would," "intend," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "predict," "project," "potential," or "continue" or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. This report includes, among others, forward-looking statements regarding our: •Expectations about future customers; •Expectations about expanded service offerings; •Expectations about our ability to cross-sell additional services to existing clients; •Expectations about our intended geographical expansion; •Expectations about our ability to attract executive officers and key employees; •Evaluation of the materiality of our current legal proceedings; and •Expectations about positive cash flow generation and existing cash and cash equivalents being sufficient to meet normal operating requirements. These statements involve certain known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those listed in this section. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 