D. Risk Factors This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those described in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our equity shares and ADSs could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business Our operations are subject to governmental, health and safety and environmental regulations, which require us to obtain and comply with the terms of various approvals, licenses and permits. Any failure to obtain, renew or comply with the terms of such approvals, licenses and permits in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition Numerous governmental permits, approvals and leases are required for our operations as the industries in which we operate and seek to operate are subject to numerous laws and extensive regulation by national, state and local authorities in jurisdictions 13 Table of Contents including India, Sri Lanka, Australia, Namibia, South Africa, Ireland, Liberia and any other jurisdictions where we may operate in future. Our operations are also subject to laws and regulations relating to employment, the protection of health and safety of employees as well as the environment, including conservation and climate change. For instance, we are required to obtain various environmental and labor-related approvals in connection with our operations in India, including clearances from the Ministry of Environment and Forests (“MoEF”), Government of India (“GoI”) and from the relevant pollution control boards in various states in India in which we operate in order to establish and operate our facilities. Certain of such approvals are valid for certain specified periods of time and require periodic renewals, such as consents to operate and under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, as amended, and the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 from the relevant Pollution Control Boards, which are generally granted for a period of one year. Further, our oil and gas, exploration and mining activities depend on the grant or renewal of various exploration and mining licenses and production sharing contracts and other regulatory approvals that are valid for a specific period of time. In addition, such licenses and contracts contain various obligations and restrictions, including restrictions on assignment or any other form of transfer of a mining lease or on the employment of a person who is not an Indian national. For instance, in connection with our mining operations in India, mining leases are typically granted for a period of 20 to 30 years and stipulate conditions including approved limits on extraction. Similarly, in connection with our oil and gas operations in India, Cairn India is required to enter into a production sharing contract and obtain an exploration license, which typically extends to 7 or 8 years following the award of a block before it can commence exploration activities and if exploration is successful, Cairn India is then required to procure a petroleum mining lease from the relevant government authority which typically extends for 20 years in order to conduct extraction operations for oil and gas. Our current oil and gas reserves and production are significantly dependent on the Rajasthan Block in India. The current production sharing contract for the block is valid until May 2020. If the production sharing contract does not get extended or gets extended on unfavorable terms, for example, if the GoI seeks a higher profit share, or the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (“ONGC”) seeks higher shareholding in the Rajasthan fields, this could result in a substantial loss of value and could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, under the terms of the production sharing contracts, we are obliged to sell our entitlement to crude oil in the domestic Indian market until such time as the total availability of the crude oil and condensate from all domestic petroleum production activities meets the total national demand and India achieves self-sufficiency. There is currently a mismatch between the demand and the supply for crude oil in India, with the demand outweighing the domestic production of crude oil, and this mismatch is expected to continue in the long term. However, to the extent our Indian blocks yield crude oil that is not suitable for processing by refineries in India, it may be difficult for us to monetize such domestic crude oil reserves and this could have a material adverse effect on our oil and gas business, financial condition or results of operations. Government approval is also required, generally, for the continuation of mining as well as oil and gas exploration and production activities in India and other jurisdictions, and such approval can be revoked for a variety of circumstances by the GoI, Indian courts or other authorities. Any general suspension of mining activities by the government of a jurisdiction containing our mining operations could have the effect of closing or limiting production from our operations. For example, our total iron ore production declined from 13.8 mmt in fiscal year 2012 to 1.5 mmt in fiscal year 2014. This was due to the suspension imposed by the state government of Goa and this suspension was upheld by the Supreme Court of India on the mining activities in the state of Goa for the period September 2012 to April 2014 and a suspension imposed by the state government of Karnataka until April 2013. Although we resumed operations in Karnataka after receiving the stage I forest clearance from the state government of Karnataka and a temporary working permission from the MoEF, the temporary working permission expired on July 31, 2014. We currently await the stage II forest clearance from the state government of Karnataka and the final clearance from the MoEF to resume our operations. Also, a number of initiatives undertaken to expand our mining and logistical capacity at our mines at Goa and Karnataka have been scaled back and are currently on hold as the suspension on mining activities relating to iron ore was only recently lifted in Karnataka and Goa. Further, the Supreme Court of India on April 2014 announced that all the iron ore mining leases in the state of Goa expired in 2007 and it is for the state government to decide how the mining leases are to be granted in future. Furthermore, regulation of greenhouse gas emissions in the jurisdictions of our major customers and in relation to international shipping could also have an adverse effect on the demand for our products. Our smelting and mineral processing operations are energy intensive and depend heavily on fossil fuels. Increasing regulation of climate change issues such as greenhouse gas emissions, including the progressive introduction of carbon emissions trading mechanisms and tighter emission reduction targets, may raise energy costs and costs of production over the coming years. Any failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or recognized international standards, or to obtain or renew the necessary permits, approvals and leases may result in the loss of the right to operate our facilities or continue our operations, the imposition of significant administrative liabilities, or costly compliance procedures, or other enforcement measures that could have the effect of closing or limiting production from our operations. If we were to fail to meet environmental requirements or to have a major accident or disaster, we may also be subject to administrative, civil and criminal proceedings by governmental authorities, as well as civil proceedings by environmental groups and other individuals, which could result in substantial fines, penalties and damages against us, as well as subject to orders that could limit or halt or even cause closure of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents For example, in March 2013, the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (“TNPCB”) ordered the closure of the copper smelter at Tuticorin due to complaints regarding a noxious gas leak by local residents. We filed a petition in the National Green Tribunal challenging the order of the TNPCB. The National Green Tribunal passed an interim order in May 2013 allowing the copper smelter to recommence operations subject to certain conditions. We recommenced operations on June 16, 2013. In addition, the expansion of the alumina refinery at Lanjigarh has been on hold since October 2010 because the environmental approval has been withheld by the MoEF. See “Item 8. Financial Information— A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information— Legal Proceedings.” for further details. Any prolonged closure of our operations could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition or prospects or may result in the recognition of an impairment of our assets. We are exposed to the political, legal, regulatory and social risks of the countries in which we operate We are exposed to the political, economic, legal, regulatory and social risks of the countries in which we operate or intend to operate. These risks potentially include expropriation and nationalization of property, instability in political, economic or financial systems, uncertainty arising from underdeveloped legal and regulatory systems, corruption, civil strife or labor unrest, acts of war, armed conflict, terrorism, outbreaks of infectious diseases, prohibitions, limitations or price controls on hydrocarbon exports and limitations or the imposition of tariffs or duties on imports of certain goods. Countries in which we have operations or intend to have operations have transportation, telecommunications and financial services infrastructures that may present logistical challenges not associated with doing business in more developed locales. Furthermore, we may have difficulty in ascertaining our legal obligations and enforcing any rights that we may have. For example, under the terms of the shareholders’ agreement between the GoI and us, we were granted two call options to acquire all the shares in HZL held by the GoI at the time of exercise. We exercised the first call option on August 29, 2003. The GOI has disputed and refused to act upon the second call option. Also, GoI has disputed our exercise of the call option to purchase the remaining ownership interest of the GoI in BALCO. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Our Business—Options to Increase Interests in HZL and BALCO.” Political, legal and commercial instability or community disputes in the countries and territories in which we operate could affect our operations. Some of our current and potential operations are located in or near communities that may regard such operations as having a detrimental effect on their environmental, economic or social circumstances. Any such disputes or issues could have a material adverse impact on our cost, profitability, and ability to finance our operations. Such events could lead to disputes with national or local governments or with local communities and give rise to negative publicity. If our operations are delayed or shut down as a result of political and community instability, our revenue growth may be constrained and the long-term value of our business could be adversely impacted. Once we establish operations in a particular country, it may be expensive and logistically difficult to discontinue such operations should economic, political, physical or other conditions deteriorate subsequently. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Material changes in the regulations that govern our businesses, or the interpretation of recent legislation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations Mining in India is subject to a complex and comprehensive set of laws and regulatory requirements. See “Business — Indian Regulatory Matters — Mining Laws”. These laws and regulatory requirements are subject to change. For example, the Indian Mines (Amendment) Bill, 2011 (“Mines Bill”) proposes several amendments to the Mines Act, 1952, including significant enhancement to the monetary penalties and terms of imprisonment for violations under the Mines Act, 1952. The Indian Ministry of Mines has also prepared the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulations) Bill, 2011 (“Mining Bill”) which provided that the holder of a mining lease or prospecting license shall be liable to pay reasonable compensation to the stakeholders holding occupation, usufruct or traditional rights of the surface of the land over which the license and lease has been granted, as mutually agreed (failing which the relevant state government will determine compensation payable) and an annual amount to the district mineral fund for the benefit of affected person equal to 26.0% of profits in case of coal, and royalty paid during the year for other minerals. The bill was introduced in the lower house of Parliament in 2011, however it has since lapsed. If we are affected, directly or indirectly, by the application or interpretation of any such statute, enforcement proceedings initiated under it, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. In addition, our oil and gas business is also subject to complex and comprehensive regulations in India, Sri Lanka and South Africa. For example, upon the expiry of oil and gas licenses in India, contractors are generally required under the terms of relevant licenses or local law to dismantle and remove equipment, cap or seal wells and generally make good production sites. There can be no assurance that we will not in the future incur decommissioning charges in excess of those currently provided for, since local or national governments may require decommissioning to be carried out in circumstances where there is no express 15 Table of Contents obligation to do so, particularly in case of future oil and gas license renewals. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with complying with existing and future laws and regulations may also be substantial and time-consuming and may delay the commencement or continuation of oil and gas exploration or metal mining and production activities. This and any changes to the regulations could require changes to the manner in which we conduct our business and result in an increase in compliance costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We have significant asset concentration risks, and any interruption in the operations at those assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition Our results of operations have been and are expected to continue to be substantially dependent on the reserves, production and the cost of production at certain of our key assets, and any interruption in the operations or exploration and development activities at those assets for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, the Rajasthan Block produced 94% of our average daily net operated production from our oil and gas business in fiscal year 2014 and oil and gas from the Rajasthan Block constituted 96.5% of our net aggregate proved oil and gas reserves on a barrel of oil equivalent basis as of March 31, 2014. Also we plan to invest about 87% of the capital expenditure to be incurred by fiscal year 2017 in the Rajasthan block which may further increase the asset concentration risk. Our oil and gas business provided 42.3% of our operating profit in the fiscal year 2014. Further, our Rampura Agucha zinc mine produced 86.3% of the total mined zinc metal in concentrate that we produced in fiscal year 2014 and constituted 55.3% of our total proven and probable zinc ore reserves as of March 31, 2014 in India. Our Zinc India business provided 48.8% of our operating profit in fiscal year 2014. Furthermore, the Codli mine in Goa produced 40% of our total iron ore production in fiscal year 2013 and constituted 16.4% of our proved and probable iron ore reserves in India as of March, 31 2014. Suspension of mining activities in Goa has materially affected our operations, and any future interruption in the operations of these mines, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, production of saleable ore from our iron ore business at Goa declined from 3.7 million tons in fiscal year 2013 to nil in fiscal year 2014 due to suspension of mining activities in Goa since September 11, 2012 and an order of the Supreme Court of India since October 5, 2012. Although the suspension of mining activities has been revoked by the Supreme Court of India on April 21, 2014, we have not yet commenced operations, as the mining lease for the operation of our mines has not been renewed by the government. Any such suspension or further delay in recommencement of mining operations from these mines could have a material adverse effect on our results of business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business requires substantial capital expenditures and the dedication of management and other resources to maintain ongoing operations and to grow our business through projects, expansions and acquisitions, which projects, expansions and acquisitions are subject to additional risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations Capital requirements. We require capital for, among other purposes, expanding our operations, making acquisitions, managing acquired assets, acquiring new equipment, maintaining the condition of our existing equipment and maintaining compliance with environmental laws and regulations. To the extent that cash generated internally and cash available under our existing credit facilities are not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we will require additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Future debt financing, if available, may result in increased finance charges, increased financial leverage, and decreased income available to fund further acquisitions and expansions and the imposition of restrictive covenants on our business and operations. In addition, future debt financing may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and render us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If we fail to generate or obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. In light of this, our planned and any proposed future expansions and projects may be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain funding for such capital expenditures on satisfactory terms, or at all, including as a result of any of our existing facilities becoming repayable before its due date. In addition, there can be no assurance that our planned or any proposed future expansions and projects will be completed on time or within budget, which may adversely affect our cash flow. Demands on management. Our efforts to continue our growth will place significant demands on our management and other resources and we will be required to continue to improve operational, financial and other internal controls, both in India and elsewhere. Our ability to maintain and grow our existing business and integrate new businesses will depend on our ability to maintain the necessary management resources and on our ability to attract, train and retain personnel with skills that enable us to keep pace with growing demands and evolving industry standards. We are, in particular, dependent to a large degree, on the continued service and performance of our senior management team and other key team members in our business units. These key personnel possess technical and business capabilities that are difficult to replace. The loss or diminution in the services of members of our senior management or other key team members, or our failure to maintain the necessary management and other resources could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In addition, as our business develops and expands, we believe that our future success will depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel, which is not guaranteed. 16 Table of Contents Acquisition risks. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to pursue acquisitions to expand our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition, strategic investment or joint venture opportunities, obtain the financing necessary to complete and support such acquisitions or investments, integrate such businesses or investments satisfy regulatory requirements for such acquisitions or that any business acquired will be profitable. If we attempt to acquire non-Indian companies, we may not be able to satisfy certain Indian regulatory requirements for such acquisitions and may need to obtain the prior approval of the RBI which we may not be able to obtain. The funding of such acquisitions by us may require certain approvals from regulatory authorities in India. In addition, acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results, diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key personnel, risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities and difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, systems, services and products of the acquired businesses or investments. Any failure to achieve successful integration of such acquisitions or investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If our planned expansions and new projects are delayed, or if we experience cost overruns in our projects, our results of operation and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We have in recent years initiated significant expansion plans for our existing operations and planned greenfield projects, which involve significant capital expenditure. Although several of these initiatives have been completed, work remains to be completed in some of these projects. The timing, implementation and cost of such expansion are subject to a number of risks, including the failure to obtain necessary leases, licenses, permits, consents and approvals, or funding for the expansion. We do not currently have all of the leases, licenses, permits, consents and approvals that are or will be required for our planned expansion and new projects. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or renew all necessary leases, licenses, permits, consents and approvals in a timely manner. For example, a writ petition was filed at the High Court of Madras challenging the grant of an environmental clearance for the expansion of our copper smelting unit at Tuticorin. Further, the expansion of our alumina refinery at Lanjigarh has been on hold since October 2010 because of the environmental approval that is withheld by the MoEF. See “Item 8. Financial Information— A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information— Legal Proceedings.” for further details. Additionally, while a substantial majority of the work has been completed on construction and installation of the Salaya to Bhogat section of the main pipeline and the Bhogat terminal facilities, installation and commissioning of approximately 10 km of the Salaya to Bhogat section as well as completion of Bhogat terminal has been delayed. Factors including inclement weather conditions in Gujarat, difficulties with local landowners obstructing access to the pipeline routes, shortages and/or delays in obtaining all the required material shortage of skilled labor, non-compliance with our health, safety, environmental and quality policies and delay in obtaining necessary approvals have, and may adversely affect our construction schedule in future. The cost overrun on account of the delay has been approved by the joint operation partner and the relevant regulatory authorities, but not yet approved by the GoI. If GoI does not approve the increase in costs, this could increase the risk that some of the costs for constructing, installing and commissioning this section of the main pipeline are not allowed for cost recovery purposes. Moreover we are currently undertaking exploration programs in our Rajasthan and other oil blocks and any delays in this exploration program or shortfall in achieving the necessary output levels could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In fiscal year 2013, we announced an expansion of our zinc-lead mines capacity to 1.2 MTPA in a phased manner until fiscal year 2019 in our Zinc India business. This will involve sinking of underground shafts and developing underground mines. Benefits from these growth projects are expected to begin in fiscal year 2016, even though project activities will continue until fiscal year 2019. Annual capital expenditure towards these projects is expected to be approximately $250 million. Any delays in the execution of the expansion plans or any shortfall in achievement of the expansion objectives may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the GoI is contemplating a proposal to demarcate certain forest areas in India, based on the permissibility of using such land for mining purposes. The identification of designated areas where mining activities will, or will not, be permitted will be based on mapping forest and coal reserves as well as field-level studies. While this proposal remains in discussion, the MoEF has denied the grant of environmental and forest diversion clearances applied for in certain areas identified as restricted areas. In the event the proposal is implemented, our current and any future mining activities and related expansion plans and new projects may be affected, which would adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations or otherwise hinder our borrowing capabilities. Any delay in completing planned expansions, revocation of existing clearances, failure to obtain or renew regulatory approvals, non-compliance with applicable regulations or conditions stipulated in the approvals obtained, suspension of current projects, or cost overruns or operational difficulties once the projects are commissioned may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, our decision to undertake or continue any of these projects will be 17 Table of Contents based on assumptions of future demand for our products which may not materialize. As a consequence of project delays, cost overruns, changes in demand for our products and other reasons, we may not achieve the reductions in the cost of production or other economic benefits expected from these projects, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to secure additional reserves of oil and gas, zinc, copper, iron ore and bauxite that can be extracted at competitive costs or cannot extract existing reserves at competitive costs, our profitability and operating margins could decline If our existing oil and gas, zinc, copper, iron ore and bauxite reserves cannot be extracted at competitive costs or if we cannot secure additional reserves that can be extracted at competitive costs, we may become more dependent upon third parties for the metal ore, or our production volumes will decline. As our reserves decline as we extract the mineral ore or crude oil, our future profitability and operating margins depend upon our ability to access reserves that have geological characteristics enabling extraction at competitive costs. Replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be of a quality capable of being extracted at costs comparable to the existing or exhausted mines and fields. We may not be able to accurately assess the geological characteristics of any reserves that we acquire, which may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Because the value of reserves is calculated based on that part of our mineral and oil and gas deposits that are economically and legally exploitable at the time of the reserve calculation, a decrease in commodity prices may result in a reduction in the value of any reserves that we obtain as less of the deposits contained therein would be economically exploitable at lower prices. Exhaustion of reserves at particular mines or oil fields may also have an adverse effect on our operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by such mines or oil fields. Further, with depletion of reserves we will face higher unit extraction costs. Our future production depends significantly upon our success in finding or acquiring and developing additional reserves adopting and using the appropriate technology. If we are unsuccessful, we may not meet our production targets which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to obtain additional reserves in the future could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other metal and oil and gas companies, lack of suitable acquisition candidates, government regulatory and licensing restrictions, difficulties in obtaining mining leases and surface rights or the inability to acquire such properties on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. To increase production from our existing mines or oil fields, we must apply for governmental and joint operation partner approvals, which we may not be able to obtain in a timely manner, or at all. The results of appraising discoveries are uncertain, more so in our oil and gas business, which may result in reductions in projected reserves and production declines and may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but also from wells that are productive but uneconomic to develop. Appraisal and development activities may be subject to delays in obtaining governmental approvals or consents, shut-ins of connected wells, insufficient storage or transportation capacity or exhaustion and depletion of reserves or other geological and mechanical conditions all of which may result in a material increase of our costs of operations or delay anticipated revenues. Our operations are subject to risks that could result in decreased production, increased cost of production and increased cost of or disruptions in transportation, power generation, mining and oil exploration We are subject to operating conditions and events beyond our control that could, among other things, increase our mining, transportation or production costs, disrupt or halt operations at our mines and production facilities permanently or for varying lengths of time or interrupt the delivery of our products to our customers. These conditions and events include: • Disruptions in extraction and production due to equipment failures, unexpected maintenance problems and other interruptions. All of our operations are vulnerable to disruptions. Our aluminium smelters are particularly vulnerable to disruptions in the supply of power which, even if lasting only a few hours, can cause the contents of the furnaces or cells to solidify, which would necessitate a plant closure and a shut down in operations for a significant period, as well as involve expensive repairs. Our tuticorin smelter plant was shut down for nine days in February 2012 due to the unavailability of copper concentrate. This was caused primarily due to the declaration of force majeure by some copper mines with which we had contracted for the supply of copper concentrate. We incurred loss of production to the extent of 8,000 metric tons and other costs due to this interruption. The losses from these interruptions include lost production, repair costs and other expenses. Further, our oil processing facility in the northern fields of the Rajasthan Block designed to separate oil, gas and water may not function as designed over the life of the fields. This may result in the crude oil not meeting export specifications of pipelines which may mean that any such crude oil either cannot be sold or will be sold at a significant discount to the agreed crude oil sales price, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • Availability of raw materials. Any shortage of or increase in the prices of any of the raw materials needed to satisfy our businesses’ requirements may interrupt our operations or increase our cost of production. We are particularly dependent on coal, which is used in many of our captive power plants. Our aluminium business, which has high 18 Table of Contents energy consumption due to the energy-intensive nature of aluminium smelting, is significantly dependent on receiving allocations from Coal India Limited and its subsidiaries. A shortage of coal from April 2005 led Coal India Limited to reduce the amount of coal supplied to all of its non-utility customers, such as the aluminium industry consumers, including BALCO. As a result, BALCO was forced to utilize higher-priced imported coal and coal from non-linkage sources, which resulted in higher power generation costs. In fiscal year 2014, 90.0% of the allocated coal was supplied from Coal India Limited. We established our aluminium business in Odisha through an agreement with Orissa Mining Corporation Limited to establish an aluminium smelter and associated captive power plants in the Lanjigarh and Jharsuguda district in Odisha. A memorandum of understanding with the Government of Odisha (through Orissa Mining Corporation Limited) provides that the Government of Odisha would supply us 150 million tons of bauxite ore. However delay in obtaining captive bauxite supply as per the terms of memorandum of understanding has resulted in our Orissa aluminium business reporting losses since inception. Any further delays in securing assured bauxite supplies for our Orissa aluminium business could continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, we may not receive the coal block allocations that we expect or may not be allowed to use such allocations for our commercial power generation business. Any coal block allocations that we receive may not be sufficient for our planned operations and we may not be successful in procuring a sufficient supply of coal at economically attractive prices, or at all. Additionally, we are subject to certain restrictive covenants contained in the coal block allocation agreements including specified end use and submission of mining plans within a specified period. Our oil processing facility in the northern fields require reliable fuel supply for power generation and heating, to ensure the quality of our crude oil production. Currently, the fuel supply for power generation and heating requirements are being met through associated natural gas from the Mangala field, supplemented as required by natural gas from the Raageshwari Deep gas field. While the current gas supply is adequate to ensure a sufficient fuel supply, there is no guarantee that the current estimates of the future fuel requirements can be supplied from the gas associated with existing and future oil production, supplemented by gas supply from the Raageshwari Deep gas field. In such an event, an alternative energy source would need to be obtained, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • Availability of water. The mining operations of our zinc and aluminium businesses, production from our oil fields, smelter operations of copper business and our captive power plants depend upon the supply of a significant amount of water. There is no assurance that the water required will continue to be available in sufficient quantities or that the cost of water will not increase. For example, BALCO is currently in a dispute with the National Thermal Power Corporation Limited regarding the right of way for a water pipeline that provides one of BALCO’s captive power plants access to a body of water adjacent to National Thermal Power Corporation Limited’s premises. An unfavorable decision in this dispute may significantly increase BALCO’s costs of obtaining water for our power plant. We inject hot water to maintain reservoir pressure and to optimize crude oil recovery at the Mangala, Bhagyam and Aishwariya oil fields. The source water for these fields is, and will continue to be provided from water production wells drilled in the Thumbli saline aquifer in the Barmer Basin. Extraction of saline water also requires the approval of the relevant government authorities. There can be no assurance that the estimated impact of the expected water extraction from the flow of groundwater is accurate. A failure to extract the required amount of water during the life of the existing and currently planned developments or an inaccurate prediction of the impact on the flow of groundwater, or delay or cancellation of the approval from the government authorities to extract saline water, may require us to access alternative sources of water resulting in holding us responsible for any contamination of the fresh water supply by saline groundwater from the aquifer. Although the relevant government authority has given its consent for the extraction of saline groundwater from Thumbli, it is possible that we will be perceived to be directly or indirectly responsible for any shortage of fresh water or deterioration in water quality. In such an event, the local authorities may require us to access alternative water sources, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • Disruptions to or increased costs of transport services. We depend upon seaborne freight, inland water transport, rail, trucking, overland conveyor and other systems to transport bauxite, alumina, zinc concentrate, copper concentrate, coal and other supplies to our operations and to deliver our products to customers. Any disruption to or increase in the cost of these transport services, including as a result of interruptions that decrease the availability of these transport services or as a result of increases in demand for transport services from our competitors or from other businesses, or any failure of these transport services to be expanded in a timely manner to support an expansion of our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • Inadequate plant operating and maintenance procedures. We have in place operating and maintenance procedures to maintain the integrity of our production facilities. However, there is a risk of unplanned events, inadequate application of these procedures or higher levels of corrosion than expected could cause disruption to production all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or result of operations. • Dependence on third parties. We depend on third parties for the construction, delivery and commissioning of the power facilities, supply and testing of equipment and transmission and distribution of electricity that we generate, 19 Table of Contents which is beyond our control. For instance, the external contractors may not be able to complete construction and installation on time, within budget, or to the specifications set forth in our contracts with them, or the contractors may otherwise cause delays in meeting project milestones or achieving commercial operation by the scheduled completion date, which could in turn cause forecast budgets to be exceeded or result in delayed payment by customers, invoke liquidated damages, penalty clauses or performance guarantees or result in termination of contracts. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings- Proceedings against TSPL relating to its delay in commissioning various units of the power plant.” In addition, the demand for contractors with specialist design, engineering and project management skills and services has increased, resulting in a shortage of contractors and increasing costs of services. There can be no assurance that such skilled and experienced contractors will continue to be available at reasonable rates and we may be exposed to risks relating to the cost and quality of their services, equipment and supplies. • Price volatility and changes in tariff policy. As we sell the power we generate in the open market (rather than to captive schemes), we are exposed to spot prices, which are subject to factors beyond our control. • Power purchase agreements. The power purchase agreements and other agreements that we have entered into, or may enter into may require us to guarantee certain minimum performance standards, such as plant availability and generation capacity, to the power purchasers. If our facilities do not meet the required performance standards, the power purchasers with whom we have power purchase agreements may not reimburse us for any increased costs arising as a result of our plants’ failure to operate within the agreed norms, which in turn may affect our results of operations and financial condition. • Power transmission. Lack of strong power transmission infrastructure could restrict our power generation volumes. For example, the effective plant load factor for all the four units of our commercial power plant at Jharsuguda was constrained at 44% in fiscal year 2013 on account of the limited power transmission infrastructure available in India. • Regulatory compliance. Power generation in India is a regulated industry. In particular, national and state regulatory bodies and other statutory and government mandated authorities may, from time to time, impose minimum performance standards upon us. Failure to meet these requirements could expose us to the risk of penalties, including, in certain instances, plant shut downs. • Flow assurance concerns of crude oil. The waxy nature of crude oil at the northern fields requires us to use hot water injection as the recovery technique at these fields. Injection of hot water requires that the temperature of the water is maintained at a certain level to ensure that the temperature of the crude oil is not reduced by the water used in the injection process to the point where solidification may occur. If the temperature of the injection water is not maintained at the required level, the required injection rate may not be able to be maintained, therefore the overall field production rate and ultimate recovery may be adversely impacted. Further, the waxy nature of crude oil requires that the temperature of crude oil transported through the 24 inch insulated oil pipeline and connecting spur lines should be kept at a temperature greater than the temperature of crude oil. Maintaining the temperature of the crude oil above this wax appearance temperature has required the installation of a specialized heating system and heating stations at various points along the pipeline. If the specialized heating system does not perform as expected, or there are problems associated with the performance of the heating stations, there are problems supplying fuel to the power generation systems at these heating stations; the temperature of crude oil may not be maintained, which would have an adverse impact on the rate at which oil can be transported through the pipeline. Any reduction in the crude oil production, ultimate recovery, or in the oil transportation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • Accidents at mines, oil fields, smelters, refineries, oil processing terminals, cargo terminals and related facilities. Any accidents or explosions causing personal injury, property damage or environmental damage at or to our mines, oil fields, smelters, refineries, oil processing terminals, cargo terminals and related facilities may result in expensive litigation, imposition of penalties and sanctions or suspension or revocation of permits and licenses. Risks associated with our open-pit mining operations include flooding of the open-pit and collapses of the open-pit wall. Risks associated with our underground mining operations include underground fires and explosions (including those caused by flammable gas), cave-ins or ground falls, discharges of gases or toxic chemicals, flooding, sinkhole formation and ground subsidence. Injuries to and deaths of workers at our mines and facilities have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. For example, the operation of our Mt Lyell mine was suspended in January 2014, following a mud slide incident. Subsequently, the operations at this copper mine was placed under care and maintenance following a rock falling on the ventilation shaft in June 2014. We are required by law to compensate employees for work-related injuries. Failure to make adequate provisions for our workers’ compensation liabilities could harm our future operating results. Furthermore, our oil and gas exploration and production operations by us or operators of assets in which we have an interest will involve risks normally incidental to such activities, including blowouts, oil spills, gas leaks, explosions, fires, equipment damage or failure, natural disasters, geological uncertainties, unusual or unexpected rock formations and abnormal pressures. Offshore operations are also subject to natural disasters as well as to hazards inherent in marine operations and damage to pipelines, platforms, facilities and sub-sea facilities from trawlers, anchors and vessels. Our producing fields are located in areas that can be subject to extreme weather conditions, flooding, 20 Table of Contents earthquake and other natural disasters. Additionally, we or the operators of assets in which we have an interest may face interruptions or delays in the availability of oil field services, equipment or infrastructure, including seismic survey vessels, rigs, pipelines and storage tanks, on which oil and gas exploration and production activities are dependent. • Strikes and industrial actions or disputes. The majority of the total workforce of our consolidated group of companies is unionized. Strikes and industrial actions or disputes have in the past and may in the future lead to business interruptions and halts in production. For example, the trade unions of BALCO initiated a 67-day-long strike in May 2001 in opposition to the divestment of equity shares of BALCO by the GoI. We also experienced short strikes and work stoppages in 2005 and 2006. In addition, we may be subject to union demands and litigation for pay raises and increased benefits, and our existing arrangements with the trade unions may not be renewed on terms favorable to us, or at all. For example, currently HZL is negotiating a wage settlement agreement with its workmen. The occurrence of any one or more of these conditions or events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are exposed to competitive pressures in our various business segments in which we operate which could result in lower prices or sales volumes of the products we produce, which may cause our profitability to suffer The mines and minerals, commercial power generation, and oil and gas industries are highly competitive. We continue to compete with other industry participants in the search for and acquisition of mineral and oil and gas assets and licenses. Competitors include companies with, in many cases, greater financial resources, local contacts, staff and facilities than ours. Competition for exploration and production licenses as well as for other investment or acquisition opportunities may increase in the future. This may lead to increased costs in the carrying out of our activities, reduced available growth opportunities and may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We depend upon third parties for supply of a portion of our raw material requirements, for the continuance of certain iron ore mining leases, and for execution of our projects and supply of equipment and services, as well as for offtake of our production volumes We source a majority of our copper concentrate and a substantial portion of alumina requirements from third parties. For example, in fiscal year 2014, we sourced 94.9% of our copper concentrate and 72.5% of our alumina requirements from third parties. Profitability and operating margins of our copper and aluminium business depends on the ability of the suppliers to ensure timely delivery of the contracted volumes. Also, profitability and operating margins of our aluminium business depends upon our ability to obtain the required alumina at prices that are low relative to the market prices of aluminium products that we sell and our ability to source these raw materials at a reasonable price. We operated our Sonshi iron ore mine that is leased by the state of Goa to third parties through a long-term ore raising contract, until the imposition of a temporary suspension of mining activities relating to iron ore by Supreme Court of India in the state of Goa during September 2012. Under the contract, we, as a contractor, are responsible for extracting the ore which we then purchase back from the relevant third party owners. During fiscal year 2013, approximately 0.9 million tons of our crude iron ore production (or approximately 23% of our iron ore production) was derived from our operation of third party mines. As part of our contract arrangements, we generally pay such third party owners a purchase price per ton of iron ore, which is linked to the market price of iron ore. This contract expired on March 31, 2014, but negotiations are underway to renew it. However, there is no assurance that the third party mine owners will renew our contract on the same or otherwise favorable terms, or at all. There is also no assurance that, where such mine is owned by a third party under a lease, the third party will apply for a renewal of such lease in a timely fashion prior to its expiry, or be successful in obtaining such renewals. Any failure to renew material contracts or significant increases in royalty payments may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Further, in common with many exploration and production companies, we and the operators of assets often contract or lease services and equipment from third party providers. Such services and equipment can be scarce and may not be readily available at the times and places required. In addition, the costs of third party services and equipment have increased significantly over recent years and may continue to rise. Scarcity of services and equipment and increased prices may in particular result from any significant increase in regional exploration and development activities, which in turn may be the consequence of increased or continued high hydrocarbon or mineral prices. The scarcity of such services and equipment, as well as their potentially high costs, could delay, restrict or lower the profitability and viability of projects which may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. In our oil and gas business, we have infrastructure and oil sales agreements with GoI nominated public sector refineries and domestic private sector refineries for expected levels of crude oil production from the Rajasthan Block until March 2015. Stoppage of off-take or supply could result if the buyers fail to take delivery of volumes anticipated by these sales agreements. Additionally, two private sector buyers account for more than 70% of the production in fiscal year 2014 and any unforeseen disruption at these buyer’s facilities would affect sales volume and therefore revenue generation. Further, we are subject to the risk of delayed off takes or payment for delivered production volumes or counterparty default. Any of these could have an adverse impact on our crude oil sales and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents In certain cases, the relevant counterparty, either legally or as a result of geographic, infrastructure or other constraints or factors, is in practice the sole potential purchaser of the relevant production output. This is particularly the case for sales of gas which relies on the availability or construction of transmission and other infrastructure facilities, enabling the supply of gas produced to be supplied to end users. The absence of competitors for the transmission or purchase of gas produced by us may expose it to offtake and production delays, adverse pricing or other contractual terms or may restrict the availability of transmission or other necessary infrastructure. Such delays or defaults or adverse pricing or other adverse contractual terms or restricted infrastructure availability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Defects in title or loss of any leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to conduct operations on such properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. Our ability to mine the land on which we have been granted mining lease rights and to make use of our other industrial and office premises is dependent on the acquisition of surface rights. Surface rights and title to land are required to be negotiated separately with land owners, although there is no guarantee that these rights will be granted. Any delay outside of the ordinary course of business in obtaining or inability to obtain or any challenge to the title or leasehold rights to surface rights could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, there may be certain irregularities in title in relation to some of our owned and leased properties. For example, some of the agreements for such arrangements may not have been duly executed and/or adequately stamped or registered in the land records of the local authorities or the lease deeds may have expired and not yet been renewed. Since registration of land title in India is not centralized and has not been fully computerized, the title to land may be defective as a result of a failure on our part, or on the part of a prior transferee, to obtain the consent of all such persons or duly complete stamping and registration requirements. The uncertainty of title to land may impede the process of acquisition, independent verification and transfer of title, and any disputes in respect of land title that we may become party to may take several years and considerable expense to resolve if they become the subject of Court proceedings. Further, certain of these properties may not have been constructed or developed in accordance with local planning and building laws and other statutory requirements, or it may be alleged that such irregularities exist in the construction and development of our built up properties. For example BALCO has 1804.67 acres of government land out of which 1751 acres is situated in forest land which was given on lease by the state government. The lease deed has not been executed as on date as a petition was filed in the Supreme Court against BALCO in relation to the alleged encroachment of land on which our Korba smelter is situated. Any such dispute, proceedings or irregularities may have an impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Third party interests in our subsidiary companies, restrictions due to stock exchange listings of our subsidiary companies as well as third party interest in assets of our subsidiary companies will restrict our ability to deal freely with our subsidiaries or such assets of our subsidiary companies, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition We do not wholly own all of our operating subsidiaries, although we hold the majority of the total outstanding share capital in all of our subsidiaries. Although we have direct or indirect management control of HZL, BALCO, Black Mountain Mining and Cairn India, each of these companies has other shareholders who, in some cases, hold substantial interests. As a result of the non-controlling interests in our subsidiaries and affiliates and the Indian stock exchanges listings of HZL and Cairn India, these subsidiaries may be subject to additional legal or regulatory requirements, or we may be prevented from taking certain courses of action without the prior approval of a particular or a specified percentage of shareholders and/or regulatory bodies (under shareholders’ agreements, relationship agreements or by operation of law). The existence of minority or other interests in, and stock exchange listings of our subsidiaries may limit our ability to increase our equity interests in these subsidiaries, combine similar operations, utilize synergies that may exist between the operations of different subsidiaries, move funds among the different parts of our businesses or reorganize the structure of our business in a tax efficient manner, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. ONGC is our joint operation partner with respect of all operating assets of our oil and gas business, and we operate all of our oil and gas assets. Accordingly, any mismanagement of an oil and gas asset by us may give rise to liabilities to our joint operation partners in respect of such asset. There is also a risk that other parties with interests in its assets may elect not to participate in certain activities relating to those assets which require such party’s consent. In such circumstances, it may not be possible for such activities to be undertaken by us alone or in conjunction with other participants at the desired time or at all. In addition, other joint operation partners may default in their obligations to fund capital or other funding obligations in relation to the assets. In certain circumstances, we may be required under the terms of the relevant operating agreement to contribute all or part of any such funding shortfall, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Proceedings against the GoI which has disputed our exercise of the call option to purchase its remaining ownership interest in BALCO There are certain proceedings that are currently ongoing with respect to the exercise of a call option to acquire the remaining shares of BALCO held by the GoI, in accordance with the terms of the shareholders’ agreement between the GoI and us. The amount claimed under this proceeding is presently unquantifiable. The arbitration tribunal formed under the directions of the High Court of Delhi declared an award rejecting our claim regarding the exercise of the option on January 22, 2011. According to the award, certain clauses of the shareholders’ agreement were held to be void, ineffective and inoperative as being in violation of sub section (2) of Section 111A of the Companies Act, 1956. We filed an application before the High Court of Delhi to set aside this award under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. Our application is scheduled for hearing on August 21, 2014. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Our Business—Options to Increase Interests in HZL and BALCO.” There is no assurance that the outcome of our challenge of the award will be favourable to us. In such an event, we may be unable to purchase the GoI’s remaining 49.0% interest in BALCO or may be required to pay a higher purchase price, should it decide to consummate such purchase, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Proceedings against the GoI which has disputed our exercise of the call option to purchase its remaining ownership interest in HZL We commenced arbitration proceedings against the GoI with respect to exercise of our call option to acquire the remaining shares of HZL held by the GoI, in accordance with the terms of the shareholders’ agreement between the GoI and us. The GoI denied our right to exercise the option on the basis that the shareholders’ agreement contravenes the provisions of Section 111A of the Companies Act, 1956 and is therefore void. The next date of hearing by the arbitral tribunal is on September 13, 2014. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Our Business—Options to Increase Interests in HZL and BALCO.” There can be no assurance that the arbitral proceedings will result in a favourable outcome for us. In such an event, we may be delayed in the purchase of, or may be unable to purchase, the GoI’s remaining 29.5% interest in HZL or may be required to pay a purchase price in excess of the market value or fair value of those shares, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Future production from our assets may vary from the forecast We estimate the annual metal production and the mine life through a detailed mine plan for both open pit and underground mines and the oil and gas production rates and field life through the field development plans. These mine plans and field development plans are prepared based on our estimates of future mine and field performance. Future performance is subject to a number of risks including but not limited to geological conditions being more complex than originally predicted, ore grade being different from estimates, future producer or injector well performance, plant operating efficiencies being less than originally forecast, inadequate power, water or utility supplies, and other constraints. Our zinc and lead mining operations in India are currently transitioning from open pit mining operations to underground mining operations. Difficulties in managing this transition may result in challenges in achieving our expected milestones. Any material fall in production from the current production level or from the estimates due to some or all of the risks detailed above may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Plateau production rates from the Rajasthan fields may be less than forecast. The estimates of production rates and field life contained in the field development plans for the Mangala, Bhagyam, Aishwariya, Raageshwari and Saraswati fields in the Rajasthan Block are based on our estimates of future field performance. Where any estimates of future production rates are in excess of the existing approved field plateau production rates in the case of our oil and gas business, the consent of the joint operation partner, the appropriate regulatory authorities and the GoI will be required before any of our oil fields can produce at these enhanced estimates of future production rates. In the event consent of the joint operation partner is delayed or not obtained, production would be limited to the rate set out in the field development plans, which would have a detrimental impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we do not continue to invest in new technologies and equipment, our technologies and equipment may become obsolete and our cost of production may increase relative to our competitors, or such implemented technologies might not achieve the objective, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects Our profitability and competitiveness are in large part dependent upon our ability to maintain a low cost of production as we sell commodity products with prices we are unable to influence. Unless we continue to invest in newer technologies and equipment and are successful at integrating such newer technologies and equipment to make our operations more efficient, our cost of production relative to our competitors may increase and we may cease to be profitable or competitive. Newer technologies and equipment are expensive and the necessary investments may be substantial. Moreover, such investments entail additional risks including whether they will reduce our cost of production sufficiently to justify the capital expenditures to obtain them, or whether they will result in achieving the objective of using such technology. 23 Table of Contents For example, the field development plans for the northern fields assume the use of enhanced oil recovery techniques to extract an additional incremental percentage of the estimated oil in place in the reservoirs. Enhanced oil recovery screening studies of the northern fields have concluded that polymer flooding or alkaline surfactant polymer flooding, two common enhanced oil recovery techniques, are the preferred enhanced oil recovery options. Following a successful enhanced oil recovery polymer flood pilot in the second quarter of fiscal year 2013, a field development plan for a full field application of polymer flood in the Mangala field was approved. We are working with ONGC for a full field implementation by fiscal year 2015. We are required to source large quantities of the types of polymer that would be required for the enhanced oil recovery techniques and ensure their efficient and timely transportation to the fields. To date, we have not yet entered into several of the key contracts relating to the execution of the project, or determined a method of transportation of such material to the fields. There can be no assurance that the agreement to purchase such material will be concluded successfully or transport the required quantities successfully and efficiently. Further, if we fail to maintain the polymer at the correct temperature in the reservoir, it may degrade and not function properly, thereby reducing the incremental amount of crude oil that is expected to be recovered. There is also a risk that the polymer handling facilities at the surface may perform at lower efficiency than designed, which may lead to degradation of the polymer and ultimately its higher consumption. All these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The use of enhanced oil recovery technique may significantly increase the operational expenditure necessary to extract crude oil. The economic viability of such recovery techniques will be determined by the incremental cost of such techniques compared to the then prevailing price of crude oil in the international markets. There can be no assurance that the price of crude oil will allow such techniques to be an economically viable proposition at the time we intend to effect these enhanced recovery techniques. This could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete, our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our iron ore business is largely dependent on export sales of iron ore to China. As a result, any downturn in the rate of economic growth in China or negative changes in international relations between India and China or negative changes in the Chinese regulatory or trade policies relating to the import of iron ore could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our iron ore business is largely dependent on export sales of iron ore to China. For instance, in fiscal year 2013, 91% of our iron ore sales in terms of volume were exported of which 89% was derived from sales of iron ore to customers in China. As a result, the performance and growth of our iron ore business is necessarily dependent on the Chinese economy, which may be materially and adversely affected by political instability or regional conflicts, economic slowdown elsewhere in the world or otherwise. In addition, any deterioration of international relations between India and China, any negative changes in Chinese regulatory or trade policies relating to the import of iron ore or other limitations or restrictions in our ability to export iron ore to China could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to restrictive covenants for the credit facilities including term loans and working capital facilities provided to us and our subsidiaries There are restrictive covenants in agreements which we have entered into with certain financial institutions for our borrowings and for borrowings by our subsidiaries. These restrictive covenants among others, require us to maintain certain financial ratios and seek the prior permission of these financial institutions for various activities, including, among others, any change in our capital structure, issue of equity, preferential capital or debentures, raising any loans and deposits from the public, undertaking any new project, effecting any scheme of acquisition, merger, amalgamation or reconstitution, implementing a new scheme of expansion or creation of a subsidiary. If the covenants are not complied with we may be required to repay the amount borrowed from such lenders immediately. Such restrictive covenants may restrict our operations or ability to expand and may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are involved in a number of litigation matters, arbitration proceedings both civil and criminal in nature and any final judgment against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations, financial condition and prospects. We are involved in a number of legal and arbitration proceedings including matters relating to, alleged violations of environmental, tax, Indian laws and regulations, criminal sanctions, property and labor disputes and other related issues. A final judgment against us or our directors in one or more of these disputes may result in damages that we will be required to pay to the other party, injunctions against us any of which may require us to cease or limit our operations and such decisions or judgments may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. 24 Table of Contents For a detailed discussion of material litigation matters pending against us, see “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” We may be liable for additional taxes if the tax holidays, exemptions and tax deferral schemes which we currently benefit from expire without renewal, and the benefits of the tax holidays, exemptions and tax deferral schemes are limited by the minimum alternative tax We currently benefit from significant tax holidays, exemptions and tax deferral schemes. These tax holidays, exemptions and tax deferral schemes are for limited periods. For example, HZL’s captive power plant at Dariba, Chanderiya, and Zawar benefits from tax exemptions on the profits generated from transfers of power to HZL’s other units, which are expected to generate substantial savings. We also have wind mills located in states such as Gujarat, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Rajasthan which are also eligible for tax exemption. We pay royalties and cess in relation to our oil and gas business, to the state governments and the central government in India at rates determined by the respective governments, linked to the volume of oil that we produce. Furthermore, we may be liable for additional taxes if the tax holiday which our oil and gas business currently benefits from expires without renewal in fiscal year 2017. Our copper refinery and copper rod plant at Tuticorin and one of our hydrometallurgical zinc smelters at Chanderiya was awarded the status of export oriented units, under which we were eligible for tax exemptions on raw materials, capital goods procured and finished goods sold until March 31, 2011. New captive power plants will not be eligible for such tax exemptions if the capitalization is effected after March 31, 2017. Captive power plants will continue to have the benefit of any existing tax exemptions after March 31, 2014 until such tax exemptions expire. The expiry or loss of existing tax holidays, exemptions and tax deferral schemes or the failure to obtain new tax holidays, exemptions or tax deferral schemes will likely increase our tax obligations and any increase could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we are subject to a Minimum Alternate Tax which sets a minimum amount of tax that must be paid each year based on our book profits. The Minimum Alternate Tax rate is currently 18.5%. The Finance Act, 2013 has increased the surcharge on income of domestic companies having taxable income over Rs. 100 million ($1.7 million) from 5% to 10% which resulted in the increase in the effective Minimum Alternate Tax rate for such companies from 20.01% to 20.96%, including surcharge, education cess and secondary and higher secondary education cess. The Minimum Alternate Tax prevents us from taking full advantage of any tax holidays, exemptions or tax deferral schemes that may be available to us. Asarco has filed a complaint alleging that we and Sterlite U.S.A. have breached our prior agreement to acquire Asarco’s assets. Any adverse judgment may have a material adverse effect on our business, results or operations, financial condition and prospects. On March 17, 2010, Asarco filed a complaint in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas, Corpus Christi Division, against us and Sterlite U.S.A. alleging that we and Sterlite U.S.A. had breached an agreement dated May 30, 2008 (“May 2008 Agreement”) by, among other things, refusing to pay the $ 2.6 billion purchase price and refusing to assume the liabilities and contractual obligations required under the May 2008 Agreement. Asarco claimed these damages to be in the range of $ 533 million to $ 1,509 million and also claimed applicable pre-judgment interest. Further, Asarco terminated the agreement it entered with us on March 6, 2009 (the “March 2009 Agreement”). This agreement superseded the May 2008 Agreement in its entirety. The March 2009 Agreement provided for the settlement and release of any potential claims against us arising out of the May 2008 Agreement. Asarco drew the $ 50 million provided as deposit under the March 2009 agreement. We filed an application to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the return of the $ 50 million which was subsequently rejected. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court, by its order dated February 13, 2012 and February 27, 2012 ruled that Asarco is entitled to a gross amount of $ 132.8 million in incidental damages. This amount was to be reduced by $ 50 million drawn by Asarco under the March 2009 Agreement, making Asarco entitled for a net amount of $ 82.8 million. We have provided for the amount of $82.8 million in our consolidated statement of profit or loss as part of our administration expenses for fiscal year 2012. Asarco and us filed a notice of appeal against this judgment to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas Brownsville Division (“the District Court”) in May 2012. On December 24, 2012 Asarco and us entered into a settlement agreement to settle all claims of both the parties, where we agreed to pay the settlement amount of $ 82.8 million after obtaining the approval from the RBI under the applicable regulations in India. While this application to the RBI for obtaining this approval was pending, Asarco terminated the settlement agreement on January 21, 2014. Subsequently, Asarco filed a motion of sanction against us, claiming that we have misrepresented them by delaying the appeal proceedings and applying to the RBI to seek approval to pay the settlement amount. The District Court heard the matter on and reserved its order. After the termination of the settlement agreement, Asarco and us reinstated our appeals that were earlier filed in May 2012. These appeals are yet to be heard. In the interim, on a motion by Asarco under a Texas Turnover statue, the United States 25 Table of Contents Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas, on June 13, 2014 issued an order requiring us to turnover to the United States Marshal’s office an amount or other property of ours equivalent to $ 82.8 million plus cost incurred for the enforcement of the order. The court also provided an injunction whereby pending the payment of the judgment amount, we, our employees, agents, joint venturers and person acting in concert are restrained from enjoying, transferring, concealing or disposing of all of our non-exempt property including any present and future dividends and distribution payable to our shareholders traded as ADR. Asarco has since proceeded to seek the turnover of the dividend payable to the ADR holders. We have applied to the RBI seeking permission to remit the judgment amount to satisfy this order. An adverse judgment or settlement relating to Asarco’s claim against us may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. The GoI may allege a breach of a covenant by us and seek to exercise a put or call right with respect to shares of HZL, which may result in substantial litigation and serious financial harm to our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Under the terms of the shareholders’ agreement between the GoI and SIIL, we agreed that we would ensure that HZL would implement a 1 mmtpa greenfield zinc smelter plant at Kapasan in the state of Rajasthan (the “Kapasan Project”), within 5 years from April 11, 2002. The shareholders’ agreement provided that if within one year from this date, we reviewed the feasibility of the Kapasan Project and determined that it was not in the best economic interests of HZL, which determination required the report of an independent expert, and the board of directors of HZL confirmed this determination, then we would not be obliged to ensure that HZL implement the Kapasan Project. In 2003, HZL notified the GoI that the Kapasan Project would not be undertaken and that a report of an independent expert may not be required. While we have not received any notice of breach under the provisions of the shareholders’ agreement between the GoI and us with respect to HZL, the GoI may claim that we have breached the covenant related to the Kapasan Project as mentioned in the shareholders’ agreement triggering an event of default. The GoI, under the terms of the shareholders’ agreement, may become entitled to the right, which is exercisable at any time within 90 days from the day it became aware of such event of default, to either sell any or all of the shares of HZL held by the GoI to us at a price equivalent to 150.0% of the market value of such shares, or purchase any or all of the shares of HZL held by us at a price equivalent to 50.0% of the market value of such shares. Based solely on the closing market price of HZL’s shares on the National Stock Exchange (“NSE”), on July 31, 2014, the price was Rs. 161.2 ($2.7) per share. If the GoI determined to have and were to exercise a right to sell all of its 1,247,950,590 shares of HZL at a price equivalent to 150.0% of their market value, we will be required to pay Rs. 301,754 million ($ 5,029.2 million) for those shares, and if the GoI determined to have and were to exercise a right to purchase all of the 2,743,154,310 shares of HZL held by us at a price equivalent to 50.0% of their market value, we would receive Rs. 221,098 million ($ 3,685.0 million) for those shares. If the GoI were to assert that an event of default occurred and seek to exercise a put or call right with respect to shares of HZL, we may face expensive and time-consuming litigation over the matter, uncertainty as to the future of our zinc business, an inability to enforce our call option to acquire the GoI’s remaining 29.5% ownership interest in HZL and the possibility of serious financial harm if we were unsuccessful in litigation, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Attracting and retaining talent at technical, managerial and leadership level as well as shortage of skilled labor in the natural resources industry could increase our costs and limit our ability to maintain or expand our operations, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our efforts to execute our business plans will place significant demands on our management and other resources and we will be required to continue to improve operational, financial and other internal controls. Our ability to maintain and grow our business will depend on our ability to attract, train and retain personnel with skills that enable us to keep pace with growing demands and evolving industry standards. We are dependent to a large degree, on the continued service and performance of our senior management team and other key team members in our business units and functions. These key personnel possess technical and business capabilities that are difficult to replace. The loss or diminution of services of members of our senior management or other key team members, or our failure to retain our key personnel at various managerial positions could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Mining, metal refining, metal smelting and fabrication operations and oil and gas extraction, require a skilled and experienced labor force. If we experience a shortage of skilled and experienced labor, our labor productivity could decrease and costs could increase, our operations may be interrupted or we may be unable to maintain our current production or increase our production as otherwise planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. 26 Table of Contents Our insurance coverage may prove inadequate to satisfy future claims against us We maintain insurance which we believe is typical in the respective industries in which we operate and in amounts which we believe to be commercially appropriate. Nevertheless, we may become subject to liabilities against which we may not have adequate insurance coverage or at all. Our insurance policies contain certain customary exclusions and limitations on coverage which may result in our claims not being honored to the full extent of the losses or damages we have suffered. The exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas is inherently hazardous. A range of factors incorporating natural and man-made factors may result in oil spills, fires, equipment failure, loss of well control, leakage of hydrocarbons or hydrogen sulfide etc., which can result in death, injury and damage to production facilities and the environment. In addition, our operating entities in India can only seek insurance from domestic insurance companies or foreign insurance companies operating in joint ventures with Indian companies and these insurance policies may not continue to be available at economically acceptable premiums. The occurrence of a significant adverse event, the risks of which are not fully covered or honored by such insurers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Re-organization Transactions may not result in expected benefits At the time of announcing the Re-organization Transactions, we estimated cost savings arising from the transaction, due to operational and financial synergies. These synergies may not be realized or may be materially lower than estimated and the extent to which any of the other benefits will actually be achieved, if at all, or the timing of any such benefits, cannot be predicted with certainty. If we are unable to realize the estimated cost savings or the other benefits that we expect to achieve through the consolidation, or if we are prevented from taking advantage of the anticipated tax efficiencies, or if we are unable to offset the incremental costs we incur over time as a result of the consolidation with such savings and benefits, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, subsequent to the effectiveness of the Amalgamation and Re-organization Scheme, a special leave petition challenging the orders of the High Court of Bombay at Goa was filed before the Supreme Court of India by the Commissioner of Income Tax, Goa and the Ministry of Corporate Affairs in July 2013 and April 2014, respectively. Further, a creditor and a shareholder challenged the Amalgamation and Re-organization Scheme in the High Court of Madras in September 2013. These petitions are pending for hearing and admission. There is no assurance that the special leave petitions will be determined in our favor, and accordingly, there is no assurance that the Courts will negate the effectiveness of the Re-organization Transactions. In such circumstance, we may not be able to achieve financial, operational, strategic and other potential benefits from the consolidation pursuant to the Re-organization Transactions. Risks Relating to our Industry Commodity prices and the copper TcRc may be volatile, which would affect our revenue, results of operations and financial condition Historically, the international commodity prices for copper, zinc, oil and gas, iron ore and aluminium and the prevailing market TcRc rate for copper have been volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, such commodities, market uncertainties, the overall performance of world or regional economies and the related cyclicality in industries we directly serve and a variety of other factors. For example, between March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2014, the average LME prices of copper, aluminium, zinc, lead, silver and dated brent decreased by 9.6%, 10.2%, 1.9%, 1.0%, 29.8% and 2.3% respectively. For instance, we purchase copper concentrate at the LME price for copper metal for the relevant quotational period less a treatment charge (“Tc”) and refining charge (“Rc”), or TcRc, that we negotiate with our suppliers, but which is influenced by the prevailing market rate for the TcRc. The TcRc has historically fluctuated independently and significantly from the copper LME price. We attempt to make the LME price a pass through for us as both our copper concentrate purchases and sales of finished copper products are based on LME prices. Nevertheless, we are also exposed to differences in the LME price between the quotational periods for the purchase of copper concentrate and sale of the finished copper products, and any decline in the copper LME price between these periods will adversely affect us. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Factors Affecting Results of Operations—Metal Prices, Copper TcRc and Power Tariff.” Similarly, for the portion of our alumina requirements sourced internally, our profitability is dependent upon the LME price of aluminium, less the cost of production, which includes the cost of mining bauxite, the refining of bauxite into alumina, transportation of bauxite and alumina and smelting of alumina into aluminium. For the portion of our alumina requirements sourced from third parties, our profitability is dependent upon the LME price of aluminium, less the cost of the sourced alumina and the cost of smelting. During fiscal year 2014, 72.5% of our alumina requirement was sourced from third parties. Further, the units of power generated by our commercial power generation business are also subject to price volatility. The market price of the alumina that we purchase from third parties and the market price of the aluminium metals that we sell have experienced volatility in the past and any increases in the market price of the raw material relative to the market price of the metal that we sell would adversely affect the profitability and operating margins of our aluminium business, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Further for our Rajasthan and Cambay blocks, the crude oil is benchmarked to Bonny Light, West African low sulphur crude that is frequently traded in the region, with appropriate adjustments for crude quality. The implied price realization of crude oil generally lies within the stated guidance of 8% - 13% discount to Dated Brent for Rajasthan and 5% - 10% to Dated Brent for Cambay, due to the prevailing oil market conditions. Movements in discount affect our revenue realization and any increase in quality differentials may adversely impact our revenues and profits. Our reserves are estimates are based on a number of assumptions, any changes to which may require us to lower our estimated reserves There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves. Reservoir engineering follows a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas. It is well understood that these cannot be measured in an exact manner. These risks are gradually mitigated through enhanced understanding of the reservoirs, achieved by undertaking additional work. Reserves estimation involves a high degree of judgment and it is a function of the quality of the available data and the engineering and geological interpretation. Results of drilling, testing and production may substantially change the reserve estimates for a given reservoir over a period of time. For these reasons, actual results may vary substantially. Such variation in results may materially impact our actual production, revenue and expenditures. Our metal and oil and gas reserves are estimates and represent the quantity of ore that we believed, as of March 31, 2014, could be mined, processed, recovered and sold at prices sufficient to cover the estimated future total costs of production, remaining investment and anticipated additional capital expenditures. These estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves and could vary in the future as a result of actual exploration and production results, depletion, new information on geology and fluctuations in production, operating and other costs and economic parameters such as metal prices, smelter treatment charges and exchange rates, many of which are beyond our control. For example, fluctuations in the market price of ore and other commodities reduced recovery rates or increased production costs due to inflation or other factors may render proven and probable ore reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and ultimately result in a restatement of reserves. As a result, you should not place undue reliance on the reserve data contained in this Annual Report. In the event that any of these assumptions turn out to be incorrect, we may need to revise our reserves downwards and this may adversely affect our life-of-mine plans and consequently the total value of our mining asset base, which could increase our costs and decrease our profitability. Oil and gas exploration activities are capital intensive and inherently uncertain in their outcome Oil and gas exploration activities are capital intensive and inherently uncertain in their outcome. We or the operators of assets in which we have an interest may undertake exploration activities and incur significant costs in so doing with no assurance that such expenditure will result in the discovery of hydrocarbons in commercially viable quantities or not. Changes in tariffs, royalties, cess, customs duties, export duties and government assistance may reduce our Indian market domestic premium, which would adversely affect our profitability and results of operations Copper, zinc and aluminium are sold in the Indian market at a premium to the international market prices of these metals due to tariffs payable on the import of such metals. Between March 2003 and February 2011, basic customs duties on imported copper, zinc, lead and aluminium decreased cumulatively from 25.0% to 5.0%, and have remained at 5.0% since February 2011. The GoI may reduce or abolish customs duties on any of these commodities in the future, although the timing and extent of such reductions cannot be predicted. As we sell the majority of the commodities we produce in India, any reduction in Indian tariffs on imports will decrease the premiums we receive in respect of those sales which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We pay royalties to the State Governments of Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan based on our extraction of bauxite and lead-zinc ore, respectively, and to the State Government of Tasmania in Australia based on our extraction of copper ore. Most significant of these is the royalty that HZL is required to pay to the State Government of Rajasthan, where all of HZL’s mines are located, at a rate of 8.4%, with effect from August 13, 2009 (with the rate being 6.6% prior to August 13, 2009), of the zinc LME price payable on the zinc metal contained in the concentrate produced and 12.7% (with the rate being 5.0% prior to August 13, 2009) of the lead LME price payable on the lead metal contained in the concentrate produced. Any upward revision to the royalty rates being charged currently may adversely affect our profitability. Additionally, the Department of Mines and Geology of the State of Rajasthan has raised additional demands for payment through several show cause notices to HZL for mining minerals associated with lead and zinc such as cadmium and silver. Similarly, Cairn India pays royalties and cess to the state governments and the central government in India at rates determined by the respective governments, linked to the volume or value of oil produced. Any upward revision to these rates being charged currently or payment of additional royalty for mining of associated minerals may adversely affect our profitability. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Demands against HZL by Department of Mines and Geology.” We pay royalties to the State Government of Tasmania in Australia based on our extraction of copper ore. We also pay royalties to the government from our Zinc International business. In our iron ore business, we pay royalty on iron ore to the State Governments of Goa and Karnataka at 28 Table of Contents 10% of the average price declared periodically by the Indian Bureau of Mines. We also pay export duty on export of iron ore fines at the rate of 30% ad valorem on the Free on Board (‘F.O.B”) value of exports with effect from December 30, 2011 (the rate being 20% prior to December 30, 2011). See “Item 5 — Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Factors Affecting Results of Operations — Government Policy” for details. Changes in tax laws could also result in additional taxes payable by us. For example, the GoI raised the export duty on iron ore fines twice during 2011, first to 20% with effect from March 1, 2011 and then to 30% with effect from December 30, 2011. Indian exports of copper, aluminium and zinc receive assistance premiums from the GoI, which have been reduced since 2002. These export assistance premiums have been reduced in recent years and may be further reduced in the future. Any reduction in these premiums will decrease the revenue we receive from export sales and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Factors Affecting Results of Operations—Government Policy.” The upstream oil and gas industry is dependent on a limited number of global vendors for key equipment and services There are a limited number of highly specialized vendors globally catering to the requirements of upstream oil and gas industry for key equipment and services such as rigs and other oilfield equipment and services. Many of these equipment and services involve long lead times to delivery. Inability or delay in sourcing the equipment and services of the required specifications and quality may result in delay of our exploration, development and production projects, and consequently have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There are particular risks and hazards associated with mining and oil exploration activities Our mining operations include open-pit and underground mining, both of which involve significant hazards and risks. Hazards associated with our open-pit mining operations include flooding of the open pit, collapses of the open-pit wall, accidents related to the operation of large open-pit mining and rock transportation equipment, accidents related to the preparation and ignition of large scale open pit blasting operations, production disruptions due to weather and hazards related to the disposal of mineralized waste water, such as groundwater and waterway contamination. Hazards associated with our underground mining operations include underground fires and explosions, including those caused by flammable gas, cave-ins or ground falls, discharges of gases and toxic chemicals, flooding, sinkhole formation and ground subsidence and other accidents and conditions resulting from drilling and removing and processing material from an underground mine. If any of these hazards or accidents result in significant injury to employees and damage to equipment or other property, we may experience unexpected production delays, increased production costs, and increased capital expenditures to repair or replace equipment or property, as well as claims from affected employees and environmental and other authorities for any alleged breaches of applicable laws or regulations. Disruptions to mining and oil extraction, delays and costs on account of such hazards or accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Relationship with Vedanta We are controlled by Vedanta and our other shareholders’ ability to influence matters requiring shareholder approval will be extremely limited. We are a majority-owned and controlled subsidiary of Vedanta. Volcan Investments Limited, or Volcan holds 62.3% of the share capital and 69.6% of the voting rights of Vedanta as of July 31, 2014. Volcan is a holding company, 100% owned and controlled by the Trust. Conclave is the trustee of the Trust and controls all voting and investment decisions of the Trust. As a result, shares beneficially owned by Volcan may be deemed to be beneficially owned by the Trust and, in turn, by Conclave. The beneficiaries of the Trust are members of the Agarwal family, who are related to Mr. Anil Agarwal. Mr. Anil Agarwal, the Executive Chairman of Vedanta and our Chairman Emeritus, as protector of the Trust, may be deemed to have deemed beneficial ownership of shares that are beneficially owned by the Trust. Vedanta, Volcan, the Trust, Conclave and Mr. Anil Agarwal are parties to a relationship agreement that seeks to enable Vedanta to carry on its business independently of Volcan, its direct and indirect shareholders, and their respective associates, or collectively, the Volcan Parties. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Related Parties—Vedanta.” However, we cannot assure you that the relationship agreement will be effective at insulating Vedanta, and in turn us, from being influenced or controlled by the Volcan Parties, which influence or control could have a material adverse effect on the holders of our equity shares and ADSs. As long as Vedanta, through its subsidiaries, owns a majority of our outstanding equity shares, Vedanta may have the ability to control or influence significant matters requiring board approval and to take shareholder action without the vote of any other shareholder, and the holders of our equity shares and ADSs will not be able to affect the outcome of any shareholder vote. Vedanta will have the ability to control all matters affecting us. In the event Vedanta ceases to be our majority shareholder, we will be required to immediately repay some of our outstanding long-term debt. Vedanta’s voting control may discourage transactions involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which holders of our equity shares and ADSs might otherwise receive a premium therefore over the then current market prices. Vedanta is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party and may do so without the approval of holders of our equity shares and ADSs and without providing for a purchase of our equity shares or ADSs. Accordingly, our equity shares and ADSs may be worth less than they would be if Vedanta did not maintain voting control over us. 29 Table of Contents Vedanta may decide to allocate business opportunities to other members of the Vedanta Group instead of us, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Vedanta’s control of us means it can determine the allocation of business opportunities among us, itself and its other subsidiaries. For example, as of March 31, 2014, Vedanta owned 79.4% of Konkola Copper Mines Plc, an integrated copper producer in Zambia, apart from the control exercised on us, and our subsidiaries, through us. As Vedanta controls Konkola Copper Mines Plc it determines the allocation of business opportunities among, as well as strategies and actions of, Konkola Copper Mines Plc and us. Vedanta may determine to have Konkola Copper Mines Plc or any other entity instead of us, pursue business opportunities in the zinc, oil and gas, copper, iron ore, aluminium or commercial power generation business, or any other business, or cause such companies or us to undertake corporate strategies, the effect of which is to benefit such companies instead of us and which could be detrimental to our interests. If Vedanta were to take any such actions, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be materially and adversely affected and the value of our equity shares and the ADSs may decline. We have issued several guarantees as security for the obligations of certain of our subsidiaries and other companies within the Vedanta Group and we will have liability under these guarantees in the event of any failure by such entities to perform their obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have issued several guarantees in respect of the obligations of certain of our subsidiaries and other companies within the Vedanta Group, including guarantees issued as security for loan obligations, credit facilities or issuance of customs duty bonds for import of capital equipment at concessional rates of duties. Our outstanding guarantees cover obligations aggregating Rs. 49,910 million ($831.8 million) as of March 31, 2014 the liabilities for which have not been recorded in our consolidated financial statements. We will have a liability in the event that any of these entities fails to perform its obligations under the loan agreements, credit facilities or bonds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Note 30 “Commitments, contingencies, and guarantees” on Notes to the consolidated financial statements. Any disputes that arise between us and Vedanta or other companies in the Vedanta Group could harm our business operations. Disputes may arise between Vedanta or other companies in the Vedanta Group and us in a number of areas, including: • intercompany agreements setting forth services and prices for services between us and Vedanta or other companies in the Vedanta Group; • business combinations involving us; • sales or distributions by Vedanta of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us; or • business opportunities that may be attractive to us and Vedanta, or other companies in the Vedanta Group. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. Our agreements with Vedanta and other companies in the Vedanta Group may be amended upon agreement between the parties. As we are controlled by Vedanta, Vedanta may require us to agree to amendments to these agreements that may be less favorable to us than the original terms of the agreements. Some of our directors and executive officers may have conflicts of interest because of their ownership of Vedanta shares, options to acquire Vedanta shares and positions with Vedanta Some of our directors and executive officers own Vedanta shares and options to purchase Vedanta shares, including through their continued participation in the Vedanta Long-Term Incentive Plan 2003, the Vedanta LTIP or ESOP schemes of Vedanta. In addition, some of our directors and executive officers are directors or executive officers of Vedanta. Ownership of Vedanta shares and options to purchase Vedanta shares and the presence of an executive officer of Vedanta on our Board of directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest and other issues with respect to their fiduciary duties to us when our directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Vedanta than for us. Our management, including our senior management, is not solely focused on our business and may be distracted by, or have conflicts as a result of, the demands of Vedanta or other businesses within the Vedanta Group, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents As a foreign private issuer and a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) rules, we are subject to different NYSE rules than non-controlled domestic US issuers. Consequently, the corporate governance standards which we are required to adhere to are different than those applicable to such companies, which may limit the information available to, and the shareholder rights of, holders of our ADSs We qualify as a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules as Vedanta has effective control of a majority of our equity shares. This will allow Vedanta to, among other things, control the composition of our Board of directors and direct our management and policies. As a foreign private issuer and a “controlled company,” we are exempt from complying with certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including the requirement that a majority of our Board of directors consist of independent directors. As the corporate governance standards applicable to us are different than those applicable to domestic non-controlled US issuers, holders of our equity shares and ADSs may not have the same protections afforded under the NYSE rules as shareholders of companies that do not have such exemptions. It is also possible that the Agarwal family’s significant ownership interest of us as a result of its majority ownership of Vedanta’s majority shareholder, Volcan, could adversely affect investors’ perceptions of our corporate governance. For a summary of the differences between the corporate governance standards applicable to us as a listed company in India and as a foreign private issuer and “controlled company” in the United States and such standards applicable to a domestic non-controlled US issuer, See “Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Comparison of Corporate Governance Standards.” Risks Relating to Investments in Indian Companies, Global Economic Conditions and International Operations A substantial portion of our assets and operations are located in India and we are subject to regulatory, economic, social and political uncertainties in India We are incorporated in India. Our primary operating subsidiaries, HZL, BALCO and Cairn India, are also incorporated in India. A substantial portion of our assets and employees are located in India and we intend to continue to develop and expand our facilities in India. Consequently, our financial performance and the market price of our equity shares and ADSs will be affected by changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates, changes in government policies, including taxation policies, social and civil unrest and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting India. The GoI has exercised and continues to exercise significant influence over many aspects of the Indian economy. Since 1991, successive Indian governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including by significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant and we cannot assure you that such liberalization policies will continue. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting metals and mining companies, foreign investments, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting investment in India could change as well. Further, protests against privatizations and government corruption scandals, which have occurred in the past, could slow the pace of liberalization and deregulation. Given the changes in government policy on divestments, there can be no assurance that any of the proposed privatizations which we may be interested in pursuing will be implemented or completed in the near future, or at all. A significant change in India’s policy of economic liberalization and deregulation could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular, if new restrictions on the private sector is introduced or if existing restrictions are increased. As the domestic Indian market constitutes the major source of our revenue, the downturn in the rate of economic growth in India due to the unprecedented and challenging global market and economic conditions, or any other such downturn for any other reason, will be detrimental to our results of operations In fiscal year 2014, approximately 68.8% of our revenue was derived from commodities that we sold to customers in India. The performance and growth of our business are necessarily dependent on the health of the overall Indian economy. Any downturn in the rate of economic growth in India, whether due to political instability or regional conflicts, economic slowdown elsewhere in the world or otherwise, may have a material adverse effect on demand for the commodities we produce. The Indian economy is also largely driven by the performance of the agriculture sector, which depends on the quality of the monsoon, which is difficult to predict. In the past, economic slowdowns have harmed manufacturing industries, including companies engaged in the copper, zinc, aluminium and power sectors, as well as the customers of manufacturing industries. Any future slowdown in the Indian economy could have a material adverse effect on the demand for the commodities we produce and, as a result, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence involving India or other neighboring countries could adversely affect our operations directly, or may result in a more general loss of customer confidence and reduced investment in these countries that reduces the demand for our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war involving India or other neighboring countries may adversely affect the Indian markets and the worldwide financial markets. The occurrence of any of these events may result in a loss of business confidence, which could potentially lead to economic recession and generally have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, any deterioration in international relations may result in investor concern regarding regional stability which could adversely affect the price of our equity shares and ADSs. South Asia has also experienced instances of civil unrest, terrorist attacks and hostilities among neighboring countries from time to time, especially between India and Pakistan. Such activity or terrorist attacks in the future could adversely affect the Indian 31 Table of Contents economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult and could create the perception that investments in Indian companies involve a high degree of risk. Furthermore, if India were to become engaged in armed hostilities, particularly hostilities that were protracted or involved the threat or use of nuclear weapons, we might not be able to continue our operations. If natural disasters or environmental conditions in India, including floods and earthquakes, affect our mining and production facilities, our revenue could decline Our mines and production facilities are spread across India, and our sales force is spread throughout the country. Natural calamities such as floods, rains, heavy downpours (such as heavy downpours in Tuticorin in 2008 which caused the closure of our Tuticorin facilities for two to three days, as well as the rains in Mumbai and other parts of the State of Maharashtra in 2005 and other states in 2006) and earthquakes could disrupt our mining and production activities and distribution chains and damage our storage facilities. Unusually heavy rains during the monsoon season in the years 2006 and 2013 in the states of Rajasthan and Gujarat triggered floods and caused destruction in these states. The area in which the Mangala field is located experienced flooding which directly affected existing well-sites and roads. Other regions in India have also experienced floods, earthquakes, tsunamis and droughts in recent years. Substantially all of our facilities and employees are located in India and there can be no assurance that we will not be affected by natural disasters in the future. For example, the pipeline to transport crude oil from the northern fields to Salaya, and thereafter to the Bhogat terminal in Gujarat, passes near Bhuj, which was the epicenter of an earthquake measuring 6.9 on the richter scale in 2001 and that resulted in the deaths of approximately 30,000 people as well as damage to the infrastructure in the region. Although our Rajasthan Block crude oil production plans assume that the proposed pipeline will withstand damage from fire, earthquakes, floods, storms and similar events, there can be no assurance that the pipeline will withstand damage from such events. In addition, if there were a drought or general water shortage in India or any part of India where our operations are located, the GoI or local, state or other authorities may restrict water supplies to us and other industrial operations in order to maintain water supplies for drinking and other public necessities which would cause us to reduce or close our operations. Currency fluctuations among the Indian Rupee, the US dollar and other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations Although substantially all of our revenue is tied to commodity prices that are typically priced by reference to the US dollar, most of our expenses are incurred and paid in Indian Rupees and, to a lesser extent, Australian dollars, Sri Lankan Rupees, Euros, Namibian dollars, South African Rands and Liberian dollars. In addition, in fiscal year 2014, 31.2% of our revenue was derived from commodities that we sold to customers outside India. The exchange rates between the Indian Rupee and the US dollar and between other currencies and the US dollar have changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. See “Item 10. Additional Information—D. Exchange Controls”. Our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected if the US dollar depreciates against the Indian Rupee or other currencies. We seek to mitigate the impact of short-term movements in currency on our businesses by hedging our short-term exposures progressively based on their maturity. However, large or prolonged movements in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If India’s inflation worsens or the prices of oil or other raw materials rise, we may not be able to pass the resulting increased costs to our customers and this may adversely affect our profitability or cause us to suffer operating losses India has experienced wholesale price inflation in recent years compared to historical levels due to higher demand than supply. In addition, international prices of crude oil have recently experienced significant volatility, including a rise to historical highs that increased transportation costs followed more recently by a significant decline as global economic conditions have deteriorated. Inflation, increased transportation costs and an increase in energy prices generally, which may be caused by a rise in the price of oil, or an increase in the price of thermal coking coal in particular, could cause our costs for raw material inputs required for production of our products to increase, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations if we cannot pass these added costs along to customers. Stringent labor laws in India may adversely affect our profitability India has stringent labor legislation that protects the interests of workers, including legislation that sets forth detailed procedures for dispute resolution and employee compensation for injury or death sustained in the course of employment, and imposes financial obligations on employers upon employee layoffs. This makes it difficult for us to maintain flexible human resource policies, discharge employees or downsize, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Political, economic and social risks associated with investments in countries other than India could have an adverse effect on our business In addition to operating in India, we currently operate in various other jurisdictions including Sri Lanka, Australia, Namibia, South Africa, Ireland and Liberia. Certain of these countries are subject to political, economic and social developments that may, individually or in combination, create risks for investors that may be more difficult to predict or measure than would be 32 Table of Contents the case in certain developed economies. Any political instability could have an adverse impact on the economy as a whole. Political disruptions and civil unrest that may occur in any of these countries could potentially have an adverse effect on exports and, consequently, on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Global economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging and have had, and continue to have, an adverse effect on the Indian financial markets and the Indian economy in general, which has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, our financial performance and the prices of our equity shares and ADSs Global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging and have resulted in tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies in the last several years. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations across various economies. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike and corresponding decreases in global infrastructure spending and commodity prices. Continued turbulence in the international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. These global market and economic conditions have had an adverse effect on the Indian financial markets and the Indian economy in general, which has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, our financial performance and the prices of our equity shares and ADSs. For example, in response to global economic conditions and a decline in commodity prices, we had ceased operations at one of our aluminium smelters at the Korba complex in previous years which had an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There are certain differences in shareholder rights and protections between the laws of India and the United States and between governance standards for a US public company and a foreign private issuer such as us We are incorporated in India and investors should be aware that there are certain differences in the shareholder rights and protections between the laws of India and the United States. There are also certain differences in the corporate governance standards for a domestic US issuer and those applicable to a foreign private issuer such as us. See “Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Comparison of Shareholders’ Rights.” The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) and the various Indian stock exchanges are responsible for improving and setting standards for disclosure and other regulatory standards for the Indian securities markets. SEBI has issued regulations and guidelines on disclosure requirements, insider trading and other matters. Nevertheless, there may be less information made publicly available in respect of Indian companies than is regularly made available by public companies in the United States as a result of differences between the level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities markets and of the transparency of the activities of investors and brokers in India compared to the United States. Similarly, our disclosure obligations under the rules of the NSE and BSE Ltd. (“BSE”) on which our equity shares are listed may be less than the disclosure obligations of public companies on the NYSE. Risks Relating to our ADSs Substantial future sales of our equity shares or ADSs in the public market, or the perception of such sales, could cause the market price of our ADSs to fall If our existing shareholders sell a substantial number of our equity shares in the open market, or if there is a perception that such sale or distribution could occur, the market price of our equity shares and ADSs could be adversely affected. These sales, or the perception that these sales could occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell securities in the future at a time or at a price that we deem appropriate or pay for acquisitions using our equity securities. As of March 31, 2014 we had 2,964,674,487 equity shares outstanding, including 249,110,480 equity shares represented by 62,277,620 ADSs. All our 2,964,674,487 outstanding equity shares are freely tradable on the NSE and BSE. Furthermore, Vedanta, through Twin Star and other investment companies, continued to have effective control over 1,819,099,602 of our total outstanding equity shares (including equity shares representing ADSs), which represented 61.4% of our outstanding share capital as of July 31, 2014. 33 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Indian Rupee and the US dollar could have a material adverse effect on the value of our ADSs, independent of our actual operating results The price of the ADSs is quoted in US dollars. Our equity shares are quoted in Indian Rupees on the NSE and BSE. Any dividends in respect of our equity shares will be paid in Indian Rupees and subsequently converted into US dollars for distribution to ADS holders. Currency exchange rate fluctuations will affect the dollar equivalent of the Indian Rupee price of our equity shares on the NSE and BSE and, as a result, the prices of our ADSs, as well as the US dollar value of the proceeds a holder would receive upon the sale in India of any of our equity shares withdrawn from the depositary under the deposit agreement and the US dollar value of any cash dividends we pay on our equity shares. Holders may not be able to convert Indian Rupee proceeds into US dollars or any other currency, and there is no guarantee of the rate at which any such conversion will occur, if at all. Currency exchange rate fluctuations will also affect the value received by ADS holders from any dividends paid by us in respect of our equity shares. Holders of our ADSs will bear all of the risks with respect to a decline in the value of the Indian Rupee as compared to the US dollar, which would adversely affect the price of our ADSs and the US dollar value of any dividends we pay that are received by ADS holders. Transfers of the underlying shares by persons resident outside India to residents of India are subject to certain pricing norms Under current Indian regulations, subject to certain conditions, no prior regulatory approval is required for the sale of any equity shares, including any equity shares withdrawn from the ADS facilities, by a person resident outside India to a resident of India. However, certain reporting requirements would need to be complied with by the parties to the sale transaction. Also, the prior approval of the RBI would be required in the event of a sale of the equity shares underlying our ADSs by a non-resident investor to a resident investor if the sale price is greater than the maximum price set by the RBI under Indian foreign exchange laws. Any such approval required from the RBI or any other government agency may not be obtained on terms favorable to a non-resident investor, or at all. Holders of ADSs may be restricted in their ability to exercise preemptive rights under Indian law and thereby may suffer future dilution of their ownership positions Under the Indian Companies Act, the holders of equity shares of a company incorporated in India have a preemptive right to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issuance of any new equity shares by the company, unless the preemptive rights have been waived by adopting a special resolution passed by 75% of the shareholders present and voting at a general meeting. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for the underlying equity shares of the ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 is available. We are not obligated to prepare and file such a registration statement and our decision to do so will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. No assurance can be given that we would file a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any such securities in the future, such securities may be issued to the depositary, which may sell the securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. The value the depositary would receive from the sale of such securities cannot be predicted. To the extent that holders of ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of our equity shares represented by their ADSs, their proportional ownership interests in us would be diluted. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to US Holders Based on the market prices of our equity shares and ADSs and the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, although not clear, we do not believe we were a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended March 31, 2014. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects and, therefore, the US Internal Revenue Service may assert that, contrary to our belief, we were a PFIC for such taxable year. Moreover, although the asset test (defined below) is required to be calculated based on the fair market value of our assets, we did not do a valuation of our assets and our belief that we were not a PFIC for our taxable year ended March 31, 2014 is, in part, based on the book value of our assets. A non-United States corporation will be considered a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the total value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during such year) is attributable to assets, including cash, that produce or are held for the production of passive income, or passive assets. In addition, a separate determination must be made after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Because the aggregate value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and equity shares, fluctuations in the market price of the ADSs and equity shares may cause us to become a PFIC. In addition, changes in the composition of our income or assets may cause us to become a PFIC. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for the taxable year that will end on March 31, 2014 or any future taxable year. If we were a PFIC for any taxable year during which a US Holder (as defined under “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation”) holds an ADS or an equity share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the US Holder. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 34 Table of Contents 