Item 1A. Risk Factors Ownership of our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information set forth herein. Unless otherwise specified, references to “we,” “our” and “us” in this subsection mean First California and its subsidiaries after the Mergers and, prior to the Mergers, National Mercantile and FCB and their respective subsidiaries. RISKS RELATED TO THE BANKING BUSINESS Our growth presents certain risks, including a decline in credit quality or capital adequacy. The asset growth of recent years experienced by National Mercantile and FCB may continue at First California following the Mergers, even if not at the same percentage rate experienced in recent years. Such growth presents certain risks. While we believe we have maintained good credit quality notwithstanding such growth, rapid growth is frequently associated with a decline in credit quality. Accordingly, continued asset growth could lead to a decline in credit quality in the future. In addition, continued asset growth could cause a decline in capital adequacy for regulatory purposes, which could in turn cause us to have to raise additional capital in the future to maintain or regain “well capitalized” status as defined under applicable banking regulations. Our performance and growth are dependent on maintaining a high quality of service for our customers, and will be impaired by a decline in our quality of service. Our growth will be dependent on maintaining a high quality of service for customers of First California following the Mergers. As a result of the Mergers and the corresponding growth, it may become increasingly difficult to maintain high service quality for our customers. This could cause a decline in our performance and growth with respect to net income, deposits, assets and other benchmarks. 11 If borrowers and guarantors fail to perform as required by the terms of their loans, we will sustain losses. A significant source of risk for First California arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if our borrowers and guarantors fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and guaranties. This risk increases when the economy is weak. First California has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, First California maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for actual loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in its current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, it is possible that we will further increase the allowance for loan losses or that regulators will require increases. Either of these occurrences could materially and negatively affect our earnings. The banking business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. It is expected that we will continue to realize income from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. We may not be able to minimize our interest rate risk. In addition, while an increase in the general level of interest rates may increase our net interest margin and loan yield, it may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers with variable rate loans to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services which could negatively affect our business. We conduct our combined banking operations primarily in Ventura, Los Angeles and Orange Counties, California. Increased competition in these markets may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the same banking services that we offer in our service areas. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. First California faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including without limitation, savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. 12 Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalizations and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits than we have and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. First California faces competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened low-end production offices or that solicit deposits in their market areas. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue to grow our loan and deposit portfolios and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be adversely affected. Changes in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in Southern California, could materially and negatively affect our business. Our business is directly impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions, whether caused by national or local concerns, in particular an economic slowdown in Southern California, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decrease; low cost or Noninterest bearing deposits may decrease; and collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. The State of California and certain local governments in our market area continue to face fiscal challenges upon which the long-term impact on the State’s or the local economy cannot be predicted. A significant portion of First California’s loan portfolio will consist of construction loans as a result of the Reincorporation Merger with National Mercantile and the Primary Merger with FCB, which have greater risks than loans secured by completed real properties. Prior to the Mergers, National Mercantile had outstanding construction and land development loans in the amount of $83.3 million, representing 23% of its loan portfolio. In addition, FCB Bancorp had outstanding construction and land development loans in the amount of $48.3 million, representing 13% of its loan portfolio. First California assumed the loan portfolios of National Mercantile and FCB as a result of the Mergers. These types of loans generally have greater risks than loans on completed homes, multifamily properties and commercial properties. A construction loan generally does not cover the full amount of the construction costs, so the borrower must have adequate funds to pay for the balance of the project. Price increases, delays and unanticipated difficulties can materially increase these costs. Further, even if completed, there is no assurance that the borrower will be able to sell the project on a timely or profitable basis, as these are closely related to real estate market conditions, which can fluctuate substantially between the start and completion of the project. If the borrower defaults prior to completion of the project, the value of the project will likely be less than the outstanding loan, and we could be required to complete construction with our own funds to minimize losses on the project. A downturn in the real estate market could negatively affect our business. A downturn in the real estate market could negatively affect our business following the Mergers because a significant portion (approximately 46% for National Mercantile and 83% for FCB Bancorp as of December 31, 2006) of our loans are secured by real estate. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Substantially all real property collateral for both companies is located in Southern California. If there is a significant decline in real estate values, especially in Southern California, the collateral for our loans would 13 provide less security. Real estate values could be affected by, among other things, an economic slowdown, an increase in interest rates, earthquakes and other natural disasters particular to California. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. There are currently proposed laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. These proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, may be adopted in the future, which could (1) make compliance much more difficult or expensive, (2) restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (3) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us, or (4) otherwise adversely affect our business or prospects for business. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our internal operations are subject to a number of risks. We are subject to certain operations risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls and uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK If First California is unable to integrate the operations of National Mercantile and FCB Bancorp successfully, its business and earnings may be negatively affected. The Mergers involve the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. Successful integration of National Mercantile’s and FCB Bancorp’s operations will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. No assurance can be given that we will be able to integrate the operations of the two companies without encountering difficulties including, without limitation, the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of its respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Estimated cost savings and revenue enhancements are projected to come from various areas identified through the due diligence and integration planning process. The elimination and consolidation of duplicate tasks are projected to result in annual cost savings. If we have difficulties with the integration process, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from the Mergers, and this may hurt our business and earnings. In addition, First 14 California may experience greater than expected costs or difficulties relating to the integration of the businesses of the two companies, and/or may not realize expected cost savings from the Mergers within the expected time frame. Certain preferences and rights of preferred stockholders of First California may negatively affect the rights of holders of First California common stock. First California’s certificate of incorporation authorizes its board of directors to issue up to 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, powers and restrictions granted or imposed upon any series of preferred stock without prior shareholder approval. The preferred stock that may be authorized could have preference over holders of First California common stock with respect to dividends and other distributions upon the liquidation or dissolution of First California. If First California’s board of directors authorizes the issuance of additional series of preferred shares having a voting preference over common stock, such issuances may inhibit or delay the approval of measures supported by holders of common stock that require shareholder approval and consequently may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and board of directors. Accordingly, such issuance could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or change of our management and board of directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the stockholders’ ability to realize any potential change of control premium. Currently, in the event of a voluntary or involuntary liquidation or dissolution, holders of series A convertible perpetual preferred stock of First California are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $1,000 plus an amount equal to 8.5% per annum of the $1,000, which is deemed to have commenced accrual on December 10, 2001. This amount is payable out of the assets of First California before any distribution to holders of common stock. If the number of preferred shares having a similar liquidation preference increases, the chance that holders of common stock may receive a smaller distribution upon liquidation or dissolution may be higher. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. We depend heavily on the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, C. G. Kum, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Romolo C. Santarosa, our Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer, Robert W. Bartlett, our Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer, David R. Brown, and our Executive Vice President and Head of Commercial Banking, Thomas Anthony, and a number of other key management personnel. The loss of any of their services or that of other key personnel could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends in part on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. We expect only a limited trading market for our common stock, which could lead to significant price volatility. We expect the trading volumes of the common stock of First California to be modest. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common stock to be exaggerated, leading to significant price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market of our common stock. In addition, even if a more active market in our common stock develops, it is possible that such a market may not continue or that shareholders may not be able to sell their shares. A holder with as little as a 5% interest in First California could, under certain circumstances, be subject to regulation as a “Bank Holding Company.” Any entity (including a “group” composed of natural persons) owning 25% or more of the outstanding First California common stock, or 5% or more if such holder otherwise exercises a “controlling influence” over First 15 California, may be subject to regulation as a “bank holding company” in accordance with the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or the BHCA. In addition, (i) any bank holding company or foreign bank with a U.S. presence may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board under the BHCA to acquire or retain 5% or more of the outstanding First California common stock and (ii) any person other than a bank holding company may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board under the Change in Bank Control Act to acquire or retain 10% or more of the outstanding First California common stock. Becoming a bank holding company imposes certain statutory and regulatory restrictions and burdens, and might require the holder to divest all or a portion of the holder’s investment in First California. In addition, because a bank holding company is required to provide managerial and financial strength for its bank subsidiary, such a holder may be required to divest investments that may be deemed incompatible with bank holding company status, such as a material investment in a company unrelated to banking. Concentrated ownership of our common stock creates a risk of sudden changes in our share price. As of the record date, individuals who are executive officers and members of the board of directors of First California are expected to beneficially own or control approximately 15% of First California common stock (which does not include shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options as of the record date). In addition, as of the record date, members of the Birchfield family and Pohlad family are expected to beneficially own approximately 17% and 25% of First California outstanding common stock, respectively. This substantial ownership of our common stock would enable the Birchfield and Pohlad families to significantly influence the election of our directors, with respect to which there is cumulative voting, and other corporate matters and transactions that require stockholder approval. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. The sale by any of our large stockholders of a significant portion of that stockholder’s holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, the registration of any significant amount of additional shares of our common stock may have the immediate effect of increasing the public float of our common stock, and, in addition, a group of our large stockholders can also demand that we register their shares under certain circumstances. Any such increase in the number of our publicly registered shares may cause the market price of our common stock to decline or fluctuate significantly. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock and we do not expect to pay a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. Rather, we intend to retain earnings and increase capital in furtherance of our overall business objectives. We will periodically review our dividend policy in view of the operating performance of the company, and may declare dividends in the future if such payments are deemed appropriate. In addition, our ability to pay any dividends to our stockholders is subject to the restrictions set forth under Delaware law. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is also restricted in specified circumstances under indentures governing the trust preferred securities we have issued, and we may issue additional securities with similar restrictions in the future. See “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Dividends” in Part II of this Annual Report for more information on these restrictions. We cannot assure you that we will meet the criteria specified under Delaware law or under these agreements in the future, in which case we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock even if we were to choose to do so. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 