ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry The recent turnover of our top management, including our Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In May 2006, Dan W. Heil, a co-founder of our company and our chief executive officer since its inception (except for the period of July 1993 through October 1995), passed away unexpectedly. Just prior to Mr. Heil’s death, and at his recommendation, our Board of Directors elected Win Westfall to succeed Mr. Heil. Mr. Westfall resigned as our chief executive officer in February 2007. One of our directors, Tracy Lenocker, agreed to resign from the board of directors and serve as our interim chief executive officer until we can find a successor to Mr. Westfall. In February 2007, Richard Kopecky, our Senior Vice President and the President and Chief Executive Officer of our operating subsidiary, Willdan, was terminated from these positions. In March 2007, David L. Hunt was appointed to serve as president and chief executive officer of our operating subsidiary, Willdan. Mr. Hunt has been with Willdan for 21 years, most recently as Senior Vice President and Regional Manager for the Orange County, California regional office. We have engaged an executive search firm to find qualified candidates for the position of chief executive officer of Willdan Group, Inc. Although we have engaged a search firm, no assurance can be given that we can find qualified candidates promptly and that our business and the implementation of our business strategy will not be affected. Once a successor is chosen by our board of directors, no assurance can be given that this successor will be able to continue to successfully implement our strategic business plan or continue to foster our corporate culture. The loss of additional key executives could adversely affect our business, including our ability to secure and complete engagements and attract and retain employees. Although we have an employment agreement with our chief financial officer, we do not have employment agreements or maintain key man life insurance on most of our other key executives and employees. Because of the recent turnovers of our chief executive officer and senior vice president and president of our subsidiary, Willdan, any additional losses of our management team or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, including the ability to secure or complete contracts and to attract and retain additional employees, including a new chief executive officer. Our success is highly dependent upon the efforts, talents, abilities, marketing skills and operational execution of our key executives and managers. A downturn in public and private sector construction activity in the regions we serve may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A downturn in construction activity in our geographic service areas may affect demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial condition. During fiscal year 2006, a majority of our contract revenues were generated by services rendered to public agencies in connection with private and public sector construction projects. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may also be adversely affected by conditions that impact the construction sector in general, including, among other things: · changes in national and local market conditions due to changes in general or local economic conditions and neighborhood characteristics; · slow-growth or no-growth initiatives or legislation; · increases in interest rates and changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing; 18 · adverse changes in local and regional governmental policies on investment in infrastructure; · adverse changes in federal and state policies regarding the allocation of funds to local and regional agencies; · the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws and other regulatory requirements; · changes in real estate tax rates and assessments; · adverse changes in other governmental rules and fiscal policies; and · earthquakes and other natural disasters, which can cause uninsured losses, and other factors which are beyond our control. Any of these factors could adversely affect the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the local and regional economies of California could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse economic and other conditions affecting the local and regional economies of California may reduce the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During fiscal year 2006, approximately 84% of our contract revenue was derived from services rendered to public agencies in California. From 1991 to 1996, California experienced an economic downturn that had a negative impact on the construction and development sectors. This economic downturn caused us to experience cash flow difficulties and substantial operating losses. Reductions in state and local government budgets could negatively impact their capital spending and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our state and local government clients may face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding new or existing projects. In addition, existing and potential clients may either postpone entering into new contracts or request price concessions. If we are not able to reduce our costs quickly enough to respond to the revenue decline from these clients that may occur, our operating results would be adversely affected. Accordingly, these factors affect our ability to accurately forecast our future revenue and earnings from business areas that may be adversely impacted by market conditions. Legislation may be enacted that limits the ability of state, regional or local agencies to contract for our privatized services. Such legislation would affect our ability to obtain new contracts and may decrease the demand for our services. Legislation is proposed periodically, particularly in California, that attempts to limit the ability of governmental agencies to contract with private consultants to provide services. Should such legislation pass and be upheld, demand for our services may be materially adversely affected. During fiscal year 2006, approximately 84% of our contract revenue was derived from services rendered to public agencies in California. While attempts at such legislation have failed in the past, as the composition of California’s legislative body changes over time there is an increased risk that measures could be adopted in the future that limit the market for privatized services. 19 State and other public employee unions may prevail in pending or future litigation which seeks to limit the ability of public agencies to contract with private firms to perform government employee functions in the area of public improvements. Judicial determinations in favor of these unions could affect our ability to compete for contracts and may have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Over at least the last 20 years, state and other public employee unions have challenged the validity of propositions, legislation, charters and other government regulations that allow public agencies to contract with private firms to provide services in the fields of engineering, design and construction of public improvements that might otherwise be provided by public employees. These challenges could have the affect of eliminating, or severely restricting, the ability of municipalities to hire private firms for the purpose of designing and constructing public improvements, and otherwise require them to use union employees to perform the services. Presently before the California Supreme Court is the case of Professional Engineers in California Government, et al. v. Jeff Morales, et al. in which Professional Engineers in California Government, or PECG, a union representing state civil service employees, is challenging whether Proposition 35, which allows state agencies to use private contractors to perform architectural and engineering services on public works, effected an implied repeal or amendment of existing statutes to the extent that they limit the ability of the State of California Department of Transportation, or Caltrans, to hire private contractors to perform such services on public works. PECG has been challenging Caltrans’ hiring of private firms since 1986, and in 2002 began this judicial challenge of Caltrans’ hiring practices based on Caltrans’ interpretation of the affect of Proposition 35. In the event that PECG is successful in its challenge and as a result the ability of state agencies to hire private firms is severely limited, such a decision would likely lead to additional litigation challenging the ability of the state, counties, municipalities and other public agencies to hire private engineering, architectural and other firms, the outcomes of which could affect our ability to compete for contracts and may have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Changes in elected or appointed officials could have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain an existing contract with or obtain additional contracts from a public agency. Since the decision to retain our services is made by individuals, such as city managers, city councils and other elected or appointed officials, our business and financial results or condition could be adversely affected by the results of local and regional elections. A change in the individuals responsible for selecting consultants for and awarding contracts on behalf of a public agency due to an election could adversely affect our ability to retain an existing contract with or obtain additional contracts from such public agency. Fixed price contracts under which we perform some of our services impose risks to our ability to maintain or grow our profitability. In fiscal year 2006, approximately 14% of our contract revenue was derived from fixed-price contracts. Under fixed price contracts, we perform services under a contract at a stipulated price which protects clients but exposes us to a greater number of risks than time-and-materials and unit-based contracts. These risks include: · underestimation of costs; · ambiguities in specifications; · problems with new technologies; · unforeseen costs or difficulties; · failures of subcontractors; · delays beyond our control; and 20 · economic and other changes that may occur during the contract period. The occurrence of any such risk could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Because we primarily provide services to municipalities and other public agencies, we are more susceptible to the unique risks associated with government contracts. We primarily work for municipalities and other public agencies. Consequently, we are exposed to certain risks associated with government contracting, any one of which can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks include: · the ability of the public agency to terminate the contract with 30 days’ prior notice or less; · changes in government spending and fiscal policies which can have an adverse effect on demand for our services; · contracts that are subject to government budget cycles, and often are subject to renewal on an annual basis; · the type and pricing terms of contracts can vary widely from agency to agency; · change orders and additions to contracts can be difficult to obtain; and · periodic audits can be a condition of certain contract arrangements. Changes in the perceived risk of acts of terrorism or natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our American Homeland Solutions business. If there is a significant decrease in the perceived risk of the likelihood that one or more acts of terrorism will be conducted in the United States, or a significant decrease in the perceived risk of the occurrence of natural disasters, our ability to grow and generate revenue through American Homeland Solutions, or AHS, could be negatively affected. AHS provides training and consulting services to local and regional agencies related to preparing for and responding to incidents of terrorism and natural disaster. Should the perceived risk of such incidence decline, federal and state funding for homeland security and emergency preparedness could be reduced which might decrease demand for our services and have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to grow and compete in our industry will be hampered if we are unable to retain the continued service of our key professionals or to identify, hire and retain additional qualified professionals. A critical factor to our business is our ability to attract and retain qualified professionals. We are continually at risk of losing current professionals or being unable to hire additional professionals as needed. If we are unable to attract new qualified employees, our ability to grow will be adversely affected. If we are unable to retain current employees, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We would also be increasing our competition, as former employees pose the greatest threat of significant competition to our business. We operate in a highly fragmented industry, and we may not be able to compete effectively with our larger competitors. The market for services in the engineering, municipal consulting, public finance consulting, geotechnical, homeland security and other technical services industries is competitive and highly fragmented. Contract awards are based primarily on quality of service, relevant experience, staffing capabilities, reputation, geographic presence, stability and price. Some of our competitors in certain service 21 areas have more personnel and greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. With regard to engineering related services, which represented approximately 85% and 84% of our contract revenue for fiscal years 2005 and 2006, respectively, our competitors include many larger consulting firms such as TetraTech, Inc., Stantec, Inc., and Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc. In certain public finance consulting services, we may compete with large accounting firms, such as Ernst & Young LLP. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future with these or other competitors. Our services may expose us to liability in excess of our current insurance coverage, which may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our services involve significant risks of professional and other liabilities, which may substantially exceed the fees we derive from our services. In addition, from time to time, we assume liabilities as a result of indemnification provisions contained in our service contracts. We cannot predict the magnitude of these potential liabilities. We currently maintain general liability insurance, with coverage in the amount of $1.0 million per occurrence, subject to a $2.0 million general aggregate limit; and professional liability insurance, with $5.0 million in coverage per claim, and a $10.0 million annual aggregate limit. We also carry excess coverage of an additional $9.0 million for general liability claims. Claims may be made against us that exceed these limits. We are liable to pay claims from our assets if and when the aggregate settlement or judgment amount exceeds our policy limits. In 2002, we experienced two claims against our professional liability insurance that exceeded by $3.1 million the aggregate annual limit of our coverage, which at that time was $5.0 million. Since then, we were awarded approximately $1.0 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006 on a claim for indemnity, recovering the settlement amount and interest thereon and attorney fees and costs related to one of the 2002 claims. This award replenished the 2002 aggregate limits of our professional liability policy. The other 2002 claim and the corresponding judgment was settled in March 2007. As a result of these two events, we expect to be liable for $2.1 million, which is the amount by which these 2002 claims exceeded our policy limits in 2002. Our professional liability policy is a “claims made” policy. Thus, only claims made during the term of the policy are covered. If we terminate our professional liability policy and do not obtain retroactive coverage, we would be uninsured for claims made after termination even if these claims are based on events or acts that occurred during the term of the policy. Further, our insurance may not protect us against liability because our policies typically have various exceptions to the claims covered and also require us to assume some costs of the claim even though a portion of the claim may be covered. In addition, if we expand into new markets, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage for these new activities or, if insurance is obtained, the dollar amount of any liabilities incurred could exceed our insurance coverage. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of significant magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. The quality of our service and our ability to perform under some of our contracts would be adversely affected if qualified subconsultants are unavailable for us to engage. Under some of our contracts, we rely on the efforts and skills of subconsultants for the performance of some of the tasks. In fiscal years 2005 and 2006, subconsultant costs comprised 7.1% and 5.3%, respectively, of our contract revenue. The absence of qualified subconsultants with whom we have a satisfactory relationship could adversely affect the quality of our service offerings and therefore our financial results. 22 We may not be able to maintain or accelerate our current growth rate, effectively manage our expanding operations or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis. Our employee headcount and volume of operations have grown rapidly over the past five years. This rapid growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. The number of our employees has increased from 508 at the end of fiscal year 2004 to 599 at the end of fiscal year 2005 to 670 at the end of fiscal year 2006. We anticipate further growth as we seek to increase the geographic scope of our client base. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage an expanding array of engineering, public finance consulting, homeland security consulting and technical services. We must continue to hire, train, manage and integrate a significant number of qualified engineers and other technical and professional personnel to continue to grow. If our new employees perform poorly or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating new employees, or retaining these or our existing employees, our business may suffer. Additionally, to manage our expected continued growth of our employee headcount and volume of operations, we will need to continue to improve our information technology infrastructure and our operational, financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures, and manage expanded operations in geographically distributed locations. Our expected additional headcount and capital investment will increase our costs, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our growth we will be unable to successfully execute our business plan. Potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we intend to consider acquisitions of companies that are complementary to our business. Appropriate acquisitions could allow us to expand into new geographical locations, offer new services, or acquire additional talent. Accordingly, our future performance will be impacted by our ability to identify appropriate businesses to acquire, negotiate favorable terms for such acquisitions and then effectively and efficiently integrate such acquisitions into our existing businesses. There is no certainty that we will succeed in such endeavors. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: · difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; · difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the target company; · diversion of our financial and management resources from existing operations; · the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; · risks of entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; · potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company’s business; · assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company’s services; and · inability to generate sufficient net income to justify the acquisition costs. 23 Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairment in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could lower the market price of our common stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of amounts that we anticipate. If we fail to comply with the requirements imposed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, beginning with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2007, we will be required to provide a management certification on our internal control over financial reporting and we may be required to provide an attestation report for fiscal year 2007 as well. If we do not become an accelerated filer in fiscal year 2007, we will not be required to provide an attestation report from our independent registered public accounting firm until fiscal year 2008. In order to achieve compliance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley within the prescribed period, we will need to engage in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which will be both costly and challenging. We can provide no assurance as to our conclusions or those of our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. There is a risk that neither we nor our independent auditors will be able to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. Moreover, the costs to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, as presently in effect, could be significant. In addition, during the course of testing the design and effectiveness of our internal controls, we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to allow for unqualified reports from our management and our independent registered public accounting firm. Furthermore, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. We will incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a new public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. Prior to November 2006, we had never operated as a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, Sarbanes-Oxley as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the Nasdaq Global Market, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, rules and regulations for public companies will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. 24 We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. We anticipate that our current cash, cash equivalents, cash provided by operating activities and funds available through our revolving line of credit will be sufficient to meet our current and anticipated needs for general corporate purposes during the next 12 months. It is possible, however, that we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise have the capital resources to meet our future capital needs. If this occurs, we may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies, which include the following: · hire additional engineers and other personnel; · develop new or enhance existing service lines; · expand our business geographically; · enhance our operating infrastructure; · acquire complementary businesses; or · otherwise respond to competitive pressures. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt or equity securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. The concentration of ownership of our stock may delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management, and as a result may hinder the ability of our stockholders to take advantage of a premium offer. The concentration of ownership of our stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company or a change in our management and may adversely affect the voting or other rights of other holders of our common stock. As of March 26, 2007, our directors and executive officers beneficially own 1,131,120 shares of common stock, or approximately 15.8% of our outstanding common stock. Of these shares, 920,120 shares, or approximately 12.9% of our outstanding common stock, are owned by Linda L. Heil, a member of our board of directors. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information In addition to current and historical information, this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to our future operations, prospects, potential products, services, developments and business strategies. These statements can, in some cases, be identified by the use of words like “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “intend,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “project,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. This report includes, among others, forward-looking statements regarding our: · expectations about future customers; · expectations about expanded service offerings; · expectations about our ability to cross-sell additional services to existing clients; 25 · expectations about our intended geographical expansion; · expectations about our ability to attract executive officers and key employees; · evaluation of the materiality of our current legal proceedings; and · expectations about positive cash flow generation and existing cash and investments being sufficient to meet normal operating requirements. These statements involve certain known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those listed in this section. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 