ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) arising from such events, including damage to our reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include actual or anticipated variations in our operational results and cash flow, our earnings relative to our competition, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, trading volume, sales by holders of large amounts of our common stock, short selling, market conditions within the industries in which we operate, seasonality of our business operations, the general state of the securities markets and the market for stocks of companies in our industry, governmental legislation or regulation and currency and exchange rate fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, such as recessions. We are a holding company with no operations of our own and depend on our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company and most of our assets are held by our direct and indirect subsidiaries and we will primarily rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations and to enable us to pay dividends. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends or other payments), agreements of those subsidiaries, agreements with any co-investors in non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, the terms of our credit facility and senior notes and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries may incur. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management and therefore depress the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock through provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. We may pay no cash dividends on our common stock. The payment of any future cash dividends to our stockholders will depend on decisions that will be made by our Board of Directors and will depend on then existing conditions, including our operating results, financial conditions, contractual restrictions, corporate law restrictions, capital agreements, applicable laws of the State of Delaware and business prospects. We may pay no cash dividends for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Owens Corning has nothing to report under this Item. Table of Contents -14- 