ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K. If any of the risks, uncertainties, events or developments described below occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be negatively impacted. In connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this Form 10-K, you should also carefully review the cautionary statements included under the caption “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Adverse Market Conditions Our businesses have been and may continue to be materially and adversely affected by financial market conditions and economic conditions generally. As an investment bank, risk is an inherent part of our business. Our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally around the world. In the past twelve to eighteen months, these conditions have changed suddenly and negatively. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008 and through the first half of 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes. Concerns about financial institution profitability and solvency as a result of general market conditions, particularly in the credit markets, may cause our clients to reduce the level of business that they do with us. Declines in asset values, the lack of liquidity, general uncertainty about economic and market activity and a lack of consumer, investor and CEO confidence have negatively impacted many of our businesses, particularly investment banking, merchant banking and asset management. Our investment banking business has been significantly affected by the decrease in equity underwritings and the decline in both announced and completed mergers and acquisitions. Our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, stable geopolitical conditions, transparent and efficient capital markets, liquid markets with active investors, low inflation, high business and consumer confidence and strong business earnings. Slowing growth, contraction of credit, increasing energy prices, declines in business or investor confidence or risk tolerance, increases in inflation, higher unemployment, outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability, corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets and natural disasters, among other things, can affect the global financial markets. In addition, economic or political pressures in a country or region may cause local market disruptions and currency devaluations, which may also affect markets generally. In the event of changes in market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, equity, fixed income, commodity or real estate valuations, liquidity, availability of credit or volatility, our businesses could be adversely affected in many ways. Overall, the business environment over the past two years has been extremely adverse for many of our businesses and there can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. These conditions have had, and will continue to have, a direct and material impact on our results of operations and financial condition because performance in the financial services industry is heavily influenced by the overall strength of economic conditions and financial market activity. We expect that the reduced transaction volumes, reduced revenue and reduced profitability that we experienced in almost all of our main businesses in 2008 and 2009 may continue throughout 2010. It is difficult to predict how long these uncertain and unfavorable market and economic conditions will continue, whether a continuation of the global credit crisis will cause market and economic conditions to further deteriorate, and which of our markets, products and businesses will continue to be adversely affected and to what degree. Currently, we anticipate that some or all of these challenging market conditions will persist throughout 12 Table of Contents 2010. We expect that equity and debt financing and acquisition and disposition activity may remain at a low level through 2010. Our financial performance will be negatively impacted by the occurrence of these conditions because our business depends heavily on these markets, particularly equity financing, public finance and acquisition and disposition activity. Our revenues may continue to be negatively impacted as a result of adverse market conditions. The real estate market in the U.S. has experienced a significant downturn due to declining real estate values, substantially reducing mortgage loan originations and securitizations, and precipitating more generalized credit market dislocations and a significant contraction in available liquidity globally, which has negatively impacted our revenues. These factors have continued into the beginning of 2010. These factors could continue beyond 2010. Continued or further credit market dislocations or sustained market downturns may reduce cash flows from our clients. Our investment banking revenues are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and therefore were adversely affected in 2008 and 2009 by the mortgage and credit market dislocations, and the overall level of equity prices, and may be further impacted by continued or further credit market dislocations or a continuation of the market downturn. Our investment banking revenues could continue to be impacted in 2010 and beyond as a result of these market factors. Sustained market downturns or continued or further credit market dislocations and liquidity issues would also likely lead to a decline in the volume of secondary market trading that we execute for our institutional brokerage clients and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads earned from the trades we execute for our clients. In addition, because the fees that we charge for managing our clients’ portfolios are in many cases based on the value of those portfolios, a market downturn that reduces the value of our clients’ portfolios would reduce the revenues we receive from our asset management business. Heightened risk aversion among investors may cause them to shift their trading activity to higher quality and more liquid products, which are generally somewhat less profitable for us. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market investment performance by our fund and portfolio managers could reduce our asset management revenues and assets under management and result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors. Risks Related to Our Business Our financial results may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, significant quarterly variations in our revenues and results of operations. These variations may be attributed in part to the fact that our investment banking revenues are typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction, the timing of which is uncertain and beyond our control. In most cases, we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. As a result, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, a client’s securities offering may be delayed or terminated because of adverse market conditions, failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or unexpected financial or other problems in the client’s business. If the parties fail to complete an offering in which we are participating as an underwriter or placement agent, we will earn little or no revenue from the transaction. This risk may be intensified by our focus on early-stage companies in certain sectors, as the market for securities of these companies may experience significant variations in the number and size of equity offerings as well as the after-market trading volume and prices of newly issued securities. More companies initiating the process of an initial public offering are simultaneously exploring M&A exit opportunities. Our investment banking revenues would be adversely affected in the event that an initial public offering for which we are acting as an underwriter is preempted by the company’s sale if we are not engaged as a strategic advisor in such sale. As a result, we are unlikely to achieve steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis. 13 Table of Contents We are dependent on our executive management team, and we may not be able to execute our business plan in the event that members of our executive management team are no longer available to us and we are unable to find suitable replacements for them or the members of our executive management team do not dedicate a sufficient amount of their professional time to our endeavors. Certain members of our executive management team do not have employment agreements with us. We have no assurance that the services of our executive management team will continue to be available to the full extent of our needs. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the experience of our executive management team, whose continued service is not guaranteed. If certain members of our executive management team leave our company or are otherwise no longer available to us or are not available to the full extent of our needs, we may not be able to replace them with suitable management and may be unable to execute our business plan. We encounter intense competition for qualified professionals from other investment banking firms and from businesses outside the investment banking industry, such as hedge, private equity and venture capital funds, and our failure to hire qualified professionals and retain our existing professionals may materially impede the success and growth of our business. Our people are our most valuable resource. Our ability to secure and maintain investment banking engagements depends upon the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and project execution skills of our professionals. Our professionals’ reputations and relationships with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and executing client engagements. Generally, we do not have employment or non-competition agreements with any of our professionals. We encounter intense competition for qualified professionals from other companies in the investment banking industry and from businesses outside the investment banking industry, such as hedge, private equity and venture capital funds. We may experience losses of investment banking, brokerage, research and other professionals and our failure to hire qualified professionals and retain our existing professionals may materially impede our success and growth. The departure or other loss of our key professionals who manage substantial client relationships or who possess substantial experience and expertise, could impair our ability to secure or successfully complete engagements, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, if any of our investment bankers or members of our executive management team were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. We may not be able to prevent our investment bankers or the members of our executive management team from resigning to join our competitors or from forming a competing company. We depend on relatively few industries to generate a significant percentage of our revenue, which may limit our revenues and net income and may adversely affect our operating results. We are dependent on revenues related to securities issued by companies in specific industry sectors. The consumer, diversified industrials, energy and natural resources, financial institutions, insurance, real estate and TMT sectors account for the majority of our investment banking, asset management, institutional trading and research activities. Therefore, any downturn in the market for the securities of companies in these industry sectors, or factors affecting such companies, could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, the frequency and size of securities offerings can vary significantly from industry to industry due to economic, legislative, regulatory and political factors. Underwriting and other capital raising transactions, strategic advisory engagements and related trading activities in our core sectors represent a significant portion of our businesses. This concentration of activity exposes us to the risk of substantial declines in revenues in the event of downturns in our core sectors. Future downturns in our core sectors could result in a decrease in the size or number of transactions we complete, which would reduce our investment banking revenues. We also derive a significant portion of our revenues from institutional sales and trading transactions related to the securities of companies in these sectors. Our revenues from such institutional sales and trading transactions 14 Table of Contents may decline when underwriting activities in these industry sectors decline, the volume of trading on the NASDAQ, the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) or any other securities market or exchange declines, or when industry sectors or individual companies report results below investors’ expectations. We have incurred losses in recent periods and may incur losses in the future. We have incurred losses in recent periods. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had a net loss of $27.7 million. We may incur losses in future periods. If we are unable to fund future losses, those losses may have a significant effect on our liquidity as well as our ability to operate. In addition, we may incur significant expenses in connection with any expansion of our capital markets and asset management businesses or in connection with strategic acquisitions and investments. Accordingly, we will need to increase our revenues at a rate greater than our expenses to achieve and maintain profitability. If our revenues do not increase sufficiently, or even if our revenues increase but we are unable to manage our expenses, we will not achieve and maintain profitability in future periods. Our ability to use net capital loss carryovers to reduce our taxable income may be limited. On October 22, 2009, as a result of the sale by Arlington Asset of all of the remaining shares of our common stock then beneficially owned by it, we had an “ownership change” as defined in Internal Revenue Code section 382. Section 382 limits tax deductions for net operating losses (NOL), net capital losses (NCL) and net unrealized built-in losses after there is a substantial change in ownership in a corporation’s stock involving a 50 percentage point increase in ownership by 5% or larger stockholders over the relevant testing period. Under the provisions of Section 13 of the Worker, Homeownership, and Business Act of 2009, enacted on November 6, 2009, we elected to use a five year carryback period for the domestic federal NOL incurred in 2008. As a result, we do not have any domestic federal NOL carryover that would be subject to limitations of section 382. As of the end of 2009, we had NCL carryovers and certain built-in losses that would be subject to an annual section 382 limitation. The Section 382 limitation is equal to the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate applicable to the calendar month of the ownership change. In general, the “long-term tax-exempt rate” is a rate determined monthly by the Internal Revenue Service that approximates the yield on a tax-exempt bond that would be equivalent to the market yield on long-term U.S. Treasury securities. The long-term tax-exempt rate for an ownership change occurring in October 2009 was 4.48%. Any NCLs that exceed the Section 382 limitation in any year will continue to be allowed as carryforwards for the remainder of the carryforward period and such losses can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carryforward period subject to the Section 382 limitation (and other applicable limitations) in each year. However, if the carryforward period for any NCL were to expire before that loss had been fully utilized, the unused portion of that loss would be lost. The carryforward period for NCLs is five years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the NCL were incurred. Our use of new NOLs or NCLs arising after the date of the ownership change would not be affected by the Section 382 limitation, unless another ownership change were to occur after those new losses arose. Our failure to integrate and develop recently added capital markets capabilities or to expand our asset management business could negatively affect the growth of our business. Our ability to develop our capital markets business depends upon expanding and enhancing the investment banking services we presently offer. We have recently added capabilities in convertible securities sales and trading, loan trading and restructuring, liability management advisory services, high yield debt and listed options sales and trading, as well as prime brokerage services for underserved money managers. We intend to incur increased costs to support these capabilities. Our failure to successfully integrate these capabilities into our business could have an adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, our failure to develop these capabilities to satisfy anticipated near-term demand in our core sectors may harm our growth prospects. 15 Table of Contents Our ability to expand our asset management business depends on a variety of factors, including but not limited to our ability to identify traditional and/or alternative asset managers and strategies, within our company and externally, and our ability to deploy capital into investments in this area. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully identify alternative asset managers and strategies or invest our own capital in alternative asset managers or strategies. Our inability to expand our asset management business could harm our growth prospects and could negatively impact the value of our common stock. Pricing and other competitive pressures may impair the revenues and profitability of our institutional brokerage business. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our institutional brokerage business. Along with other firms, we have experienced intense price competition in this business in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute trades electronically and through alternative trading systems has increased the pressure on trading commissions and spreads. We expect pricing pressures in the business to continue. Decimalization in securities trading, introduced in 2000, has also reduced revenues and lowered margins within the equity sales and trading divisions of many firms, including ours. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price or use their own capital to facilitate client trading activities. In addition, we face pressure from our larger competitors, which may be better able to offer a broader range of complementary products and services to clients in order to win their trading business. If we are unable to compete effectively in these areas, the revenues from our sales and trading business may decline, and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our research and institutional brokerage business also may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations and industry practices. Our institutional brokerage revenues may decline due to competition from alternative trading systems. Securities and futures transactions are now being conducted through the internet and other alternative, non-traditional trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. A dramatic increase in computer-based or other electronic trading may adversely affect our institutional brokerage revenues. The NYSE’s adoption of its hybrid market for trading securities may increase pressure on our institutional brokerage business as customers execute more of their NYSE-related trades electronically. Even if we were to develop our own electronic trading systems, we cannot assure you that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the relatively lower commissions arising from electronic trades. As a result, our institutional brokerage revenues could decline in the future, which would negatively impact our cash flows and the value of our common stock. We face strong competition from larger firms, some of which have greater resources and name recognition, which may impede our ability to grow our business. The brokerage and investment banking industries are intensely competitive and we expect them to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including client relationships, reputation, the abilities of our professionals, market focus and the relative quality and price of our services and products. We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses, in particular discounts in large block trades and trading commissions and spreads. In addition, pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including the trends toward increased focus by many larger investment banking companies on institutional equity offerings pursuant to Rule 144A, multiple book runners, co-managers and multiple financial advisors handling transactions, have continued and could adversely affect our revenues, even as the volume and number of investment banking transactions have started to increase. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price. Many of our competitors in the brokerage and investment banking industries have a broader range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more senior professionals to serve their clients’ needs, greater global reach and more established 16 Table of Contents relationships with clients than we have. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the brokerage and investment banking industries, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. The scale of our competitors has increased in recent years as a result of substantial consolidation among companies in the brokerage and investment banking industries. In addition, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired underwriting or financial advisory practices and broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. These firms have the ability to offer a wider range of products than we do, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. In particular, the ability to provide financing has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors and, because we do not provide such financing, we may be unable to compete as effectively for clients in a significant part of the brokerage and investment banking market. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our capital markets and strategic advisory engagements are singular in nature and our failure to obtain new engagements may harm our operating results. Our investment banking clients generally retain us on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific capital markets or M&A transactions, rather than on a recurring basis under long-term contracts. As these transactions are typically singular in nature and our engagements with these clients may not recur, we must continuously seek out new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements that generate fees from the successful completion of transactions, our business and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. Larger and more frequent capital commitments in our trading and underwriting business increase the potential for us to incur significant losses. We commit our capital to maintain trading positions in the equity, convertible securities, debt and listed options markets. We may enter into large transactions in which we commit our own capital as part of our client trading activities. The number and size of these large transactions may materially affect our results of operations in a given period. We may also incur significant losses from our trading activities due to market fluctuations and volatility in our results of operations. To the extent that we own assets, i.e., have long positions, in any of those markets, a downturn in the value of those assets or in those markets could result in losses. Conversely, to the extent we have sold assets we do not own, i.e., have short positions, in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially large losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. We use a number of quantitative measures to manage our exposure to market risk, including inventory position limits, scenario analysis, and value at risk, or VaR. VaR is a model that quantifies potential losses using historical data. Because the historical market prices used in our VaR analysis may not be an accurate measure of future market events and conditions, especially in highly stressful market environments, and because our VaR model measures the risk of a current net trading position and does not take into account future position changes arising from transaction and/or hedging activity, we could incur losses that are materially greater than our reported VaR, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Before the recent turmoil in the financial markets, there had been a trend toward larger and more frequent commitments of capital by financial services firms in many of their activities. For example, in order to win 17 Table of Contents business investment banks had increasingly been committing to purchase large blocks of stock from publicly traded issuers or significant shareholders, instead of the more traditional marketed underwriting process, in which marketing is typically completed before an investment bank commits to purchase securities for resale. We may undertake more block trades in the future. As a result, we will be subject to increased risk as we commit greater amounts of capital to facilitate primarily client-driven business and, therefore, may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in the industry. Limitations on our access to capital could impair our liquidity and our ability to conduct our businesses. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to financial services firms. Failures of financial institutions have often been attributable in large part to insufficient liquidity. Liquidity is of particular importance to our trading business and perceived liquidity issues may affect our clients’ and counterparties’ willingness to engage in brokerage transactions with us. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our trading clients, third parties or us. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. FBR & Co. and FBRIS, which are domestic registered broker-dealers, are subject to the net capital requirements of the SEC and various self-regulatory organizations of which they are members. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also mandate that a significant part of its assets be kept in relatively liquid form. FBRIL, which is a registered broker-dealer in the United Kingdom, is also subject to the capital requirements of the FSA. Any failure to comply with these net capital requirements could impair our ability to conduct our core business as a brokerage firm. Furthermore, FBR & Co., FBRIS and FBRIL are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from them to us. As a holding company, we will depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, including debt obligations. As a result, regulatory actions could impede access to funds that we need to make payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. We are highly dependent on communications, information and other systems and third parties, and any systems failures could significantly disrupt our business. Our business is highly dependent on communications, information and other systems, including systems provided by our clearing broker and by and for other third parties. Any failure or interruption of our systems, the systems of our clearing broker or third-party trading or information systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, our clearing broker provides elements of our principal disaster recovery system. We cannot assure you that we or our clearing broker will not suffer any systems failure or interruption, including one caused by a hurricane, earthquake, fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, act of God, act of war, terrorist attack, pandemic or other emergency situation, or that our or our clearing broker’s back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of any such failure or interruption will be adequate. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could significantly harm our business. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could harm our business. We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management strategies and techniques and expect to continue to do so in the future. However, our risk management strategies and techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. 18 Table of Contents We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, breach of contract or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. If any of the variety of instruments, processes and strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. Strategic investments or acquisitions and joint ventures may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We intend to grow our core businesses through both internal expansion and through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers and business partners. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact our businesses. To the extent that we pursue business opportunities outside the United States, we will be subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions. Our due diligence may not reveal all of a portfolio company’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in a portfolio company’s business. Before we make merchant banking investments, we assess the strength and skills of an entity’s management and other factors that we believe will determine the success of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly-organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the company. We cannot assure you that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or risks about a company in which we make a merchant banking investment, or that any such investment will be successful. Any unsuccessful merchant banking investments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. In any potential merchant banking investment, we depend on management and have limited ability to influence management of portfolio companies. We generally do not control the management, investment decisions or operations of the enterprises in which we make merchant banking investments. Management of those enterprises may decide to change the nature of their assets or business plan, or management may otherwise change in a manner that is not satisfactory to us. We typically have no ability to affect these management decisions, and as noted below, may have only limited ability to dispose of these investments. 19 Table of Contents We may make merchant banking investments that have limited liquidity, which may reduce the return on those investments to our stockholders. The equity securities of a new publicly-held or privately-held entity in which we make a merchant banking investment are likely to be restricted as to resale and may otherwise be highly illiquid. We expect that there will be restrictions on our ability to resell the securities of any private or newly-public company that we acquire for a period of at least one year after we acquire those securities. Thereafter, a public market sale may be subject to volume limitations or dependent upon securing a registration statement for a secondary offering of the securities. The securities of newly-public entities may trade less frequently and in smaller volume than securities of companies that are more widely held and have more established trading patterns. Sales of these securities may cause their values to fluctuate more sharply. Because we have made and expect to make merchant banking investments through an affiliate of FBR & Co., a registered broker-dealer in the U.S., and FBRIL, a registered broker-dealer in the United Kingdom, our ability to invest in companies may be constrained by applicable securities laws and regulations and the rules of FINRA and similar self-regulatory organizations. FBR & Co.’s investment and trading activities are regulated by the SEC, FINRA and other governmental authorities, and FBRIL’s investment and trading activities are regulated by similar regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom, including the FSA. As a result, the rules of the SEC, FINRA, FSA and other governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations may limit our ability to invest in the securities of companies whose securities are underwritten or privately placed by our broker-dealer affiliates. Prices of the equity securities of new entities in which we make merchant banking investments may be volatile. We may make merchant banking investments that are significant relative to the portfolio company’s overall capitalization, and resales of significant amounts of these securities might adversely affect the market and the sales price for the securities. The disposition value of our merchant banking investments is dependent upon general and specific market conditions which could result in a decline of the value of these investments. Even if we make an appropriate investment decision based on the intrinsic value of an enterprise, we cannot assure you that the market value of the investment will not decline, perhaps materially, as a result of general market conditions. For example, an increase in interest rates, a general decline in the stock markets, or other market conditions adverse to companies of the type in which we invest could result in a decline in the value of our investments. Our capital markets business is dependent on cash inflows to the mutual fund industry and other pooled investment vehicles, which could result in our experiencing operating losses if cash flows slow. A slowdown or reversal of cash inflows to the mutual fund industry and other pooled investment vehicles could lead to lower capital markets revenues for us since mutual funds and other pooled investment vehicles purchase a significant portion of the securities offered in public offerings underwritten by our broker-dealer subsidiaries and subsequently traded in the secondary markets. Demand for new equity offerings has been driven in part by institutional investors, particularly large mutual funds and hedge funds, seeking to invest on behalf of their investors. The public may redeem mutual funds as a result of a decline in the market generally or as a result of a decline in mutual fund net asset values. To the extent that a decline in cash inflows into mutual funds reduces demand by fund managers for initial public or secondary offerings, our capital markets business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, a slowdown in investment activity by mutual funds may have an adverse effect on the securities markets generally. Declines in the market values of our investments may adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings. We make merchant banking investments that are classified for accounting purposes as “available-for-sale.” Changes in the market values of those assets will be directly charged or credited to stockholders’ equity. As a 20 Table of Contents result, a further decline in market value of our investment securities may further reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of an available-for-sale security is other-than-temporary, such decline will reduce earnings, as will a decline in the value of securities not classified as available-for-sale for accounting purposes. A decline in the market value of our assets may adversely affect us particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. If the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan. If we were unable to post the additional collateral, we would have to sell the assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. A reduction in credit available may reduce our earnings. Changes in interest rates could negatively affect the value of investments we make with our excess capital, which could result in reduced earnings or losses. We invest our excess capital from time to time in highly liquid investments. Investments that are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. Declines in market value may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us. In addition, changes in interest rates may impact some of our merchant banking equity investments in companies whose business models are sensitive to interest rates. If we become subject to the registration requirements of the 1940 Act as a result of our principal investing activities, our ability to operate our business as contemplated would be impaired, our operating results would be adversely affected. The 1940 Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the 1940 Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed to be an investment company under 1940 Act. However, if anything were to happen which would cause us to be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act, requirements imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates and ability to compensate key employees, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among us and our subsidiary, FBR & Co., and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a holding company and are dependent on our subsidiaries for funds. Since we are a holding company, our cash flow and consequent ability to pay dividends and satisfy our obligations under securities we issue are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings as dividends or loans or other payments by those subsidiaries to us. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to various capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and other authorities of the countries in which they operate. These regulatory rules may restrict our ability to withdraw capital from our subsidiaries by dividends, loans or other payments. Additionally, our ability to participate as an equity holder in any distribution of assets of any subsidiary upon liquidation is generally subordinate to the claims of creditors of the subsidiary. Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and damages that we may be required to pay and the reputational harm that could result from legal action against us could materially adversely affect our businesses. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. These 21 Table of Contents risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, potential liability for “fairness opinions” and other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. We are also subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or harassment, among other things. As a brokerage and investment banking firm, we depend to a large extent on our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important underwriting or M&A transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. Therefore, our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including stockholders of our clients who could bring securities class actions against us. Our investment banking engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. Furthermore, there is no assurance that an investment banking client will be able to satisfy its indemnity or contribution obligations when due. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. FBR & Co. has been named as a defendant in a small number of securities claims involving investment banking clients of FBR & Co. as a result of FBR & Co.’s role as an underwriter. While these cases are at a preliminary stage, based on management’s review with counsel and present information currently known by management, resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, although the outcome of these matters could be material to our operating results and cash flows for a particular future period, depending on, among other things, the level of our revenues or income for such period. These cases include the following: In May 2008, the lead plaintiff in a previously filed and consolidated action filed an amended consolidated class action complaint that, for the first time, named Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co., Inc. (now FBR & Co.) and eight other underwriters as defendants. The lawsuit, styled In Re Thornburg Mortgage, Inc. Securities Litigation and pending in the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico, was originally filed in August 2007 against Thornburg Mortgage, Inc., or TMI, and certain of its officers and directors, alleging material misrepresentations and omissions about, inter alia, the financial position of TMI. The amended complaint now includes claims under Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act, against nine underwriters relating to five separate offerings (May 2007, June 2007, September 2007 and two offerings in January 2008). The allegations against FBR & Co. relate only to its role as underwriter or member of the syndicate that underwrote TMI’s total of three offerings in September 2007 and January 2008—each of which occurred after the filing of the original complaint—with an aggregate offering price of approximately $818 million. The plaintiffs seek restitution, unspecified compensatory damages and reimbursement of certain costs and expenses. Although FBR & Co. is contractually entitled to be indemnified by TMI in connection with this lawsuit, TMI filed for bankruptcy on May 1, 2009 and this likely will decrease or eliminate the value of the indemnity that FBR & Co. receives from TMI. On September 22, 2008, FBR & Co. filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated class action complaint as to FBR & Co. The District Court granted that motion on January 27, 2010. FBR & Co. subsequently moved for entry of a final judgment in its favor. The plaintiffs have opposed that motion and have filed a motion seeking clarification of the Court’s dismissal order. The plaintiffs contend that the District Court’s dismissal order is, or should be, without prejudice, and that they should be permitted to file an amended complaint that attempts to re-plead dismissed claims. The Court has yet to rule on FBR & Co.’s motion for entry of final judgment, the plaintiffs’ motion for clarification, or the plaintiffs’ expressed interest in filing an amended complaint. Because we intend to actively defend such litigation, significant legal expenses could be incurred. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of litigation, management believes that there are meritorious 22 Table of Contents defenses to the claims asserted and that this action should not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, an adverse resolution of this litigation could materially affect our financial condition, operating results and liquidity. Risks Related to Use of Estimates and Valuations We make various estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures. We make various estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Broadly, those estimates are used in measuring fair value of certain financial instruments, accounting for identifiable intangible assets, establishing provisions for potential losses that may arise from litigation, regulatory proceedings and tax examinations, assessing our ability to realize deferred taxes and valuing equity-based compensation awards. Estimates are based on available information and judgment. Therefore, actual results could differ from our estimates and that difference could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K for additional information concerning our use of estimates and valuation methodologies. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Crestview We may not be successful in capturing the benefit of our ongoing strategic advisory relationship with an affiliate of Crestview which may impede our growth and negatively impact our operating results. We have agreed, subject to the modification described below, to pay Crestview Advisors, L.L.C., an affiliate of Crestview, a $1.0 million annual strategic advisory fee and reimburse Crestview Advisors, L.L.C. for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses in exchange for ongoing strategic advice and assistance. This fee is payable for as long as Crestview beneficially owns at least 50% of the shares of our common stock that the Crestview affiliates purchased in our 2006 private offering. In September 2008, we granted Crestview Advisors, L.L.C. options to purchase 502,268 shares of our common stock at a price of $5.30 per share in lieu of cash payments for the strategic advisory fee for the period from October 1, 2008 through December 31, 2009. Unless we agree otherwise, we will be required to pay the strategic advisory fee to Crestview Advisors, L.L.C. in cash in future periods. Crestview Advisors, L.L.C. is not required to provide specified services to us or our affiliates, and we cannot assure you that this agreement will result in increased opportunities for any of our businesses or in the establishment of new relationships with potential clients or investors. To the extent that we do not capture the anticipated benefit of these services, our payment obligations under this agreement may impede our growth and negatively impact our operating results. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Voting Agreement (as defined below) among Arlington Asset, FBR TRS Holdings, Crestview and us, Crestview has the right to designate two representatives to serve on our board of directors and therefore has the ability to influence any action taken or recommended by our board of directors. If the interests of Crestview are in conflict with the interests of our other stockholders, Crestview’s ability to influence our board of directors could result in a conflict of interest for members of our board. In connection with the Repurchase Agreement, we entered into the Amended and Restated Voting Agreement with Arlington Asset, FBR TRS Holdings and Crestview (the “Amended and Restated Voting Agreement”) that provides Crestview, among other things, with the right to designate two representatives for election to our board of directors. Subject to certain conditions, Crestview also has the right to designate one representative to serve on each of the committees of our board of directors, to the extent permitted by law and the applicable regulations of the NASDAQ Global Select Market (or, if not so permitted, such designee(s) will have certain observation rights). Accordingly, Crestview may have the ability to influence any action taken or recommended by our board of directors. If the interests of Crestview are in conflict with the interests of our other stockholders, the ability of Crestview to influence our board of directors could result in a conflict of interest for members of our board. 23 Table of Contents Crestview has certain registration rights with respect to the shares of our common stock owned by it and the exercise of these rights could affect the trading market for our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, Crestview, directly and indirectly, beneficially owned approximately 15.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, including stock options issued to them. We entered into a registration rights agreement with Crestview, dated as of July 20, 2006, with respect to the shares of our common stock beneficially owned by Crestview. The registration rights agreement contains certain demand and piggyback registration rights. If Crestview exercises its registration rights with respect to some or all of its shares of our common stock, this could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Crestview could sell its stake in us to one or more third parties that may not be favorable to our stockholders. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination or increase the cost of a target business in the event that we are unable to complete a business combination solely with cash, as the stockholders of a particular target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Significantly expanded corporate governance and public disclosure requirements may result in fewer initial public offerings and distract existing public companies from engaging in capital market transactions which may reduce the number of investment banking opportunities available to pursue. Highly-publicized financial scandals in recent years have led to investor concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets, and have prompted the United States Congress, the SEC, the NYSE and Nasdaq to significantly expand corporate governance and public disclosure requirements. To the extent that private companies, in order to avoid becoming subject to these new requirements, decide to forgo initial public offerings, our equity underwriting business may be adversely affected. In addition, provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the corporate governance rules imposed by self-regulatory organizations have diverted many companies’ attention away from capital market transactions, including securities offerings and acquisition and disposition transactions. In particular, companies that are or are planning to be public are incurring significant expenses in complying with the SEC and accounting standards relating to internal control over financial reporting, and companies that disclose material weaknesses in such controls under the new standards may have greater difficulty accessing the capital markets. These factors, in addition to adopted or proposed accounting and disclosure changes, may have an adverse effect on our business. Financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. As a participant in the financial services industry, we are subject to extensive regulation under federal and state laws in the U.S. and under the laws of other countries in which we do business. We are also regulated by a number of self-regulatory organizations. The industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, including the SEC, NYSE, FINRA, FSA and state attorneys general. Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. This regulatory and enforcement environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other United States or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets, including FINRA. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. 24 Table of Contents In addition, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts. The SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. Our policies and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts may also result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. For example, the research areas of investment banks have been and remain the subject of heightened regulatory scrutiny which has led to increased restrictions on the interaction between equity research analysts and investment banking personnel at securities firms. Employee misconduct could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter. Our reputation is critical in maintaining our relationship with clients, investors, regulators and the general public and is a key focus in our risk management efforts. In recent years, there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud, conflicts of interest or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our company. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. Misconduct by employees could include binding us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks, or hiding from us unauthorized or unsuccessful activities, which, in either case, may result in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. As a result, we could suffer significant reputational harm for any misconduct by our employee. In addition, in certain circumstances our reputation could be damaged by activities of our clients or of hedge funds or other entities in which we invest, over which we have little or no control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 