D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry Demand for our PV products has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by volatile market and industry trends. Demand for our PV products has been affected by global economic conditions, capital markets fluctuations and credit disruptions. During the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009, many of our key markets, including Germany, Spain and the United States, and other national economies experienced a period of economic contraction or significantly slower economic growth. The global financial crisis, weak consumer confidence and diminished consumer and business spending have contributed to a significant slowdown in the market demand for PV products due to decreased energy requirements. In addition, many of our customers and many end-users of our PV products depend on debt financing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to purchase our PV products. During the global credit crisis, many of our customers and many end-users of our PV products experienced difficulties in obtaining financing, and even if they were able to obtain financing, the cost of such financing had increased. As a result, they changed their decision or changed the timing of their decision to purchase our PV products. In 2010, as the effect of the global economic crisis subsided, the combination of increased availability of financing for downstream buyers and decreased average selling prices of solar power products contributed to an overall increase in demand for solar power products. Since 2011, a decrease in payment to PV product producers, in the form of feed-in tariffs and other reimbursements, and a reduction in available financing have caused a decrease in the growth in a number of PV projects in the European markets. Payments to PV product producers decreased as governments in Europe, under pressure to reduce sovereign debt levels, reduced subsidies such as feed-in tariffs. Furthermore, many downstream purchasers of PV products were unable to secure sufficient financing for PV projects due to the global credit crunch. These market conditions were exacerbated by an over-supply of PV products driven by increased manufacturing capacity, which adversely affected the prices of PV products. Although the global economy has improved since 2011, the demand for solar modules in Europe fell around 40% to 10.2GW in 2013 from 16.5GW in 2012. As a result, many solar power producers that typically purchase solar power products from manufacturers like us were unable or unwilling to expand their operations. There can be no assurance that our customers or end-users will be able to obtain financing on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, which could have a negative impact on their demand for our products. Rising interest rates may make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost of PV systems and therefore limit the demand for our PV products and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price of our PV products. A protracted disruption in the ability of our customers to obtain financing, economic downturn or an increase in manufacturing capacity of the PV industry has led to, and may continue to have, a protracted material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the past few years, the decrease in demand for our products has led to, and may continue to result in, idle capacity. The reduction in demand has resulted in, and may continue to lead to, a significant amount of our capacity not being utilized, and our assets being impaired. The average selling price of our PV products may continue to decrease. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the supply of PV products has increased significantly as many manufacturers of PV products worldwide, including our company, have engaged in significant production 5 Table of Contents capacity expansion in recent years. As a result, this state of over-supply has resulted in reductions in the prevailing market prices of PV products as manufacturers have reduced their average selling prices in an attempt to obtain sales. The average selling price of our PV modules per watt was RMB8.87, RMB4.47, and RMB4.10 (US$0.68) in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. We recorded a negative net margin of 14.5%, 42.5% and 18.5% in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The average selling prices of our PV products may decline further, which could cause our sales and/or our profit margins to decline and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. As silicon supply increases, the corresponding increase in the global supply of PV modules may adversely affect our ability to increase or maintain our market share. Fluctuation in silicon price may also adversely impact our business and results of operations. Silicon is an essential raw material used in the production of solar cells and modules. Prior to mid-2008, there was an industry-wide shortage of silicon. Increases in the price of silicon have in the past increased our production costs, and any significant price increase in the future may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Due to the historical scarcity of silicon, supply chain management and financial strength were the key barriers to entry. In late 2008 and 2009, however, newly available silicon capacity has resulted in an increased supply of silicon, which resulted in downward pressure on the price of silicon. Although the silicon price rebounded between the third quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011 due to the recovery of demand for PV products in certain markets, the silicon price has decreased significantly again starting from the second quarter of 2011 as the result of increased silicon manufacturing capacity for silicon and the pressure from the decreasing average selling price of PV modules. In 2012, the polysilicon price continued to decline, reached a historical low of approximately US$14 per kilogram in November 2012, and remained low through 2013. On July 18, 2013, the Ministry of Commerce of People’s Republic of China, or MOFCOM, issued a preliminary ruling imposing provisionary anti-dumping duties commencing on July 24, 2013 and ending on January 19, 2014, and on January 20, 2014, a final ruling imposing anti-dumping duties, commencing on January 20, 2014, on certain importers of solar grade polysilicon products from the United States and South Korea, based on its determination of the dumping margin of the relevant original manufacturer. On September 16, 2013, MOFCOM issued a preliminary ruling imposing provisionary countervailing duties, commencing on September 20, 2013 and ending on January 19, 2014, and on January 20, 2014, a final ruling imposing countervailing duties commencing on January 20, 2014 on certain importers of solar grade polysilicon products from the United States, based on its determination of the ad valorem subsidy rate of the relevant original manufacturer. MOFCOM has also investigated imposing anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations on certain importers of solar grade polysilicon products from the European Union, and, on October 31, 2013, MOFCOM extended the deadline of the investigation to May 1, 2014. On January 24, 2014, MOFCOM issued a preliminary ruling which determined that the dumping and subsidies have been found in relation to solar grade polysilicon products from the European Union, but considering the unique market situation, MOFCOM decided not to impose provisionary anti-dumping or countervailing duties for the time being. While these tariffs did not materially increase our cost of production in 2013, we cannot guarantee that these tariffs will not have a material and adverse effect in the future. Since polysilicon is one of our major raw materials and we obtain a portion of our polysilicon from overseas markets, if there is any AD or CVD imposed, whether retroactively or not, our cost of production for solar modules may be adversely affected. Partly due to China’s AD and anti-subsidy investigations against the United States, South Korean and European polysilicon manufactures, polysilicon prices rebounded slightly since December 2012 and was US$19 per kilogram as of December 31, 2013. We cannot assure you that the price of silicon will continue to decline or remain at its current levels, especially if the global solar power market regains its growth momentum. As the shortage of silicon eases, industry barriers to entry become less significant and the PV market may become more competitive. If we fail to compete successfully, our business may suffer and we may lose or be unable to gain market share and our 6 Table of Contents financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Such price reductions could have a negative impact on our revenues and net income, and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for “on-grid” applications, where solar energy is used to supplement a customer’s electricity purchased from the electric utility, depends in large part on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. The on-grid market, the reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives may hinder the growth of this market, which could decrease demand for our products and reduce our revenue. The cost of solar energy currently exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid in many countries. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably Japan, Germany, Spain, Italy, the United States, Australia, China, Korea, France and the Czech Republic, have provided subsidies and economic incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of PV products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Government economic incentives are set to be reduced and may be reduced further, or eliminated. For instance, the German government reduced feed-in-tariffs in 2009, 2010 and 2012. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, Germany accounted for 41.3%, 40.5% and 14.7% of our net revenues, respectively. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, Japan accounted for 0.2%, 6.7% and 25.0% of our net revenues, respectively. In addition, political changes in a particular country could result in significant reductions or eliminations of subsidies or economic incentives. Electric utility companies that have significant political lobbying powers may also seek changes in the relevant legislation in their markets that may adversely affect the development and commercial acceptance of solar energy. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications, especially those in our target markets, could cause demand for our products and our net revenues to decline, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be subject to legal proceedings in connection with the multi-year supply agreements we entered into previously and such proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management personnel. During the course of renegotiation of some of the multi-year supply agreements we entered into previously, we may be subject to legal, administrative or other proceedings if mutual agreement cannot be reached between us and our suppliers. For example, on June 8, 2009, LDK, one of our silicon suppliers, submitted an arbitration request and an amendment of this arbitration request to the Shanghai Arbitration Commission alleging that we failed to perform under the terms of a multi-year framework supply agreement, seeking to enforce our performance and claiming monetary relief. Deliveries of silicon under the agreement halted in early 2009 and have not recommenced. In the hearing held by the Shanghai Arbitration Commission on March 23, 2012, all claims filed by LDK were dismissed and LDK was required to refund the deposit amounting to RMB104.5 million to us within 30 days from the date of the hearing. While we are pursuing the enforcement of the awards, LDK submitted a new and separate arbitration request to the Shanghai Arbitration Commission updating its arbitration claim to seek damages of RMB446 million plus legal cost for our alleged failure to perform the aforesaid multi-year framework supply agreement on August 8, 2012. In December, 2013, we reached a settlement agreement with LDK, which was recognized by the Shanghai Arbitration Commission and became effective in January 2014. According to the settlement agreement, LDK agrees to fully and irrevocably withdraw their arbitration claim in the amount of RMB446 million and refrain from bringing any future claims based on that long-term supply agreement, and in return, we agree to waive the right to seek enforcement of the arbitral award in the amount of RMB104.5 million. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal & Administrative Proceedings”. 7 Table of Contents There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully defend or resolve such legal or administrative proceedings in the near future or at all. Such legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management personnel. If there are any adverse judgments, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Prepayments we have provided to our silicon and silicon wafer suppliers expose us to the credit and performance risks of such suppliers and may not be recovered. Most of our multi-year supply agreements that we entered into during the earlier periods of supply shortage required us to make prepayments of a portion of the total contract price to our suppliers without receiving collateral for such prepayments. As of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, we had advanced RMB680.2 million, RMB350.9 million and RMB314.1 million (US$51.9 million), respectively, to our suppliers. We recorded charges to cost of revenues of RMB287.7 million, RMB186.0 million and RMB15.6 million (US$2.6 million) in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, to reflect the probable loss arising from the suppliers’ failure to perform under the contracts. In addition, we reclassify advances to other current assets when legal proceedings have commenced where we are claiming a breach of contract and are seeking monetary recovery of the remaining deposit. We recorded charges to general and administrative expenses of RMB54.5 million, RMB50.0 million and nil in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, to provide for losses in relation to prepayments to suppliers that were in contractual default where we have termination rights that require repayment of the remaining deposits. In the event that a supplier fails to fulfill its delivery obligation or we have disputes with any of our suppliers and we are unable to reach an agreement on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to recover our prepayments made to such suppliers. For example, Hoku Corporation and Hoku Materials, Inc., or Hoku collectively, have failed to fulfill their delivery obligations under their multi-year framework polysilicon supply agreement entered into on November 19, 2007 and refused to return our prepayment of US$49 million. On July 2, 2013, Hoku Corporation and Hoku Materials, Inc. both filed for Chapter 7 Bankruptcy. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal & Administrative Proceedings”. Most of our claims for prepayments are unsecured claims, which expose us to the credit risks of our suppliers in the event of their insolvency or bankruptcy. Our claims against the defaulting suppliers would rank below those of secured creditors which would undermine our chances of obtaining the return of our prepayments. If such suppliers fail to fulfill their delivery obligations under the contracts or if there is any dispute between us and such suppliers that jeopardizes our ongoing relationship, we may have to record a provision relating to or write down prepayments made to such suppliers, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Evaluating our business and prospects may be difficult because of the rapid changes in our industry, and our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. We began operations in August 2004 and shipped our first PV modules and our first PV cells in February 2005 and November 2005, respectively. With the rapid growth of the PV industry prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, our business grew and evolved at a rapid rate but subsequently experienced a slowdown in 2011 and 2012. As a result, our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects and we may not be able to achieve growth in future periods. Therefore, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as a company in a competitive industry seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a rapidly growing market, and you should not rely on our past results or our historic rate of growth as an indication of our future performance. 8 Table of Contents Our future success substantially depends on our ability to manage our production effectively and to reduce our manufacturing costs. Our ability to achieve such goals is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Our future success substantially depends on our ability to manage our production effectively and to reduce our manufacturing costs. Our efforts to reduce our manufacturing costs include lowering our silicon and auxiliary material costs, improving manufacturing productivity and processes, and improving product quality. We may not expand our manufacturing capacity as planned, if demand for our products weakens. We have, in the past, halted expansion in response to reduced demand. For example, one of our subsidiaries, Hanwha SolarOne Technology Co., Ltd., owns approximately 639,785 square meters of land which is currently undeveloped. If such land is identified by competent government agencies as idle land under the applicable PRC laws, Hanwha SolarOne Technology Co., Ltd. may be subject to a fine of up to 20% of the land premium of such land or, if the land is determined to be idle for over two years, the relevant government agencies may reclaim the land. In addition, since we have halted expansion, our construction plans have been adversely affected and we may need to negotiate with the construction company to develop a new construction plan. If we are unable to reach a resolution, we may be engaged in legal proceedings to resolve the dispute. We may explore all possible alternatives to dispose of our halted or pending projects. Even if we do expand our manufacturing capacity, we might not be able to generate sufficient customer demand for our solar power products to support our increased production levels. We may explore different ways of disposing of those projects and we may not expand our manufacturing capacity as planned. If we are unable to achieve these goals, we may be unable to decrease our costs per watt, to maintain our competitive position or to improve our operating margins. Our ability to achieve such goals is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: • our ability to maintain our quality level and keep pace with changes in technology; • our ability to source various raw materials; • our ability to adjust inventory levels to respond to rapidly changing market demand; • our ability to successfully position our assets to meet opportunities without incurring excessive costs; • delays in obtaining or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; and • diversion of significant management attention and other resources to other matters. If we are unable to establish or successfully make improvements to our manufacturing facilities or to reduce our manufacturing costs, or if we encounter any of the risks described above, we may be unable to improve our business as planned. We depend on a limited number of customers and countries for a high percentage of our revenues and the loss of, a significant reduction in orders from, or failure to collect payments from, any of these customers or countries, if not immediately replaced, would significantly reduce our revenue and decrease our operating margins. We currently sell a substantial portion of our PV products to a limited number of customers and countries. Our five largest customers accounted for an aggregate of 45.0%, 29.8% and 53.5% of our net revenues in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Our largest customer in 2011, 2012 and 2013 accounted for 15.1%, 7.6% and 25.0% of our net revenues, respectively. In 2013, three of our five largest customers were members of Hanwha Group. Members of Hanwha Group accounted for 41.1% of our net revenues in 2013. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, Japan accounted for 0.2%, 6.7% and 25.0% of our net revenues, respectively. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, Germany accounted for 41.3%, 40.5% and 14.7% of our net revenues, respectively. In 2013, Japan, South Africa and Germany were the top three countries in terms of percentage contribution to our net revenues. The loss of sales to any one of these customers or countries would have a significant negative impact on our business. Sales to our 9 Table of Contents customers are mostly made through non-exclusive arrangements. Any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our net revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; • selection by one or more of our significant customers of our competitors’ products; • loss of one or more of our significant customers and our failure to identify additional or replacement customers, including as a result of the insolvency or bankruptcy of our customers; • any adverse change in local policies toward solar projects in countries where we receive most orders; • any adverse change in the bilateral or multilateral trade relationships between China and the United States or European countries, particularly Germany; • any duty imposed on import of PV products as a result of anti-dumping measures or other measures against unfair trade practices; and • failure of any of our significant customers to make timely payment for our products. We face payment collection difficulties with respect to certain customers. For example, on June 8, 2012, we submitted an arbitration request to Guangzhou Arbitration Commission requiring Guangdong Guo Hua New Energy Investment Co., Ltd., or Guo Hua, owner of a PV project for which we acted as an engineering, procurement and construction contractor, or an EPC contractor, to pay a total amount of RMB92 million including, among others, overdue payment of the EPC contract price, accrued interest, damages and legal costs in accordance with the EPC contract. On August 5, 2012, Guo Hua filed a counterclaim to Guangzhou Arbitration Commission alleging that we have substantially breached the EPC contract, and Guo Hua requested to terminate the EPC contract and demanded us to pay a total amount of RMB187 million for breach of contract. As of the date of this annual report, we have been pursuing our claim and defending against Guo Hua’s counterclaim. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal & Administrative Proceedings”. There is no assurance that we will prevail in this claim or similar claims against our customers for payment collections and if we fail to succeed in such claims, we may not be able to recover the fees due to us, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We expect our operating results to continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers or countries for a high percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future, as well as the ability of these customers to sell PV products that incorporate our PV products. We enter into framework agreements with many of our customers that set forth our customers’ purchase goals and the general conditions under which our sales are to be made. However, such framework agreements are only binding to the extent a purchase order for a specific amount of our products is issued. In addition, certain key sales terms of the framework agreements may be adjusted from time to time. In addition, we have in the past re-negotiated some of our framework agreements due to the disagreements with our customers relating to the volumes, delivery schedules and pricing terms contained in such agreements. However, it may not always be in our best interests to re-negotiate our framework agreements and disagreements on terms may escalate into formal disputes that could cause us to experience order cancellations or harm our reputation. Furthermore, our customer relationships have been developed over a relatively short period of time. We cannot be certain that these customers will generate significant revenue for us in the future or if these customer relationships will continue to develop. If our relationships with customers do not continue to develop, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our customers and revenue. 10 Table of Contents Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for a substantial majority of silicon-related materials may prevent us from delivering our products in a timely manner to our customers in the required quantities, which could result in order cancellations, decreased revenue and loss of market share. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, our five largest silicon material suppliers supplied in the aggregate 40.6%, 72.4% and 81.1% respectively, of our total silicon and silicon wafer purchases. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these or our other suppliers and we are unable to obtain these materials from alternative sources in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to manufacture our products in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost, or at all, and as a result, we may not be able to deliver our products to our customers in the required quantities, at competitive prices and on acceptable terms of delivery. Problems of this kind could cause us to experience order cancellations, increased manufacturing costs, decreased revenue and loss of market share. In addition, some of our suppliers have a limited operating history and limited financial resources, and the contracts we entered into with these suppliers do not clearly provide for adequate remedies to us in the event any of these suppliers is not able to, or otherwise does not, deliver, in a timely manner or at all, any materials it is contractually obligated to deliver. Suppliers typically require a significant amount of capital to fund their operating activities, expand their manufacturing facilities, and conduct research and development activities. The inability of our suppliers to access capital or the insolvency of our suppliers could lead to their failure to deliver silicon materials to us. Any disruption in the supply of silicon materials to us may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to obtain sufficient quantities of silicon-related materials in a timely manner could disrupt our operations, prevent us from operating at full capacity or limit our ability to expand as planned, which would reduce, and limit the growth of, our manufacturing output and revenue. We depend on the timely delivery by our suppliers of silicon-related materials in sufficient volumes. Until mid-2008, there was an industry-wide shortage of silicon-related materials. Currently, the market is experiencing an over-capacity of silicon-related materials. While we do not believe a shortage of silicon-related materials will re-occur in the short term because of current market conditions and the expansion of silicon and silicon wafer manufacturing capacity in recent years, we cannot assure you that market conditions will not again rapidly change or we will always be able to obtain sufficient quantities of silicon-related materials in a timely manner. We may experience actual shortages of silicon-related materials or late or failed delivery for the following reasons: • the terms of our silicon and silicon wafer contracts with, or purchase orders to, our suppliers may be altered or cancelled as a result of our ongoing re-negotiations with them; • there are a limited number of silicon and silicon wafer suppliers, and many of our competitors also purchase silicon-related materials from these suppliers and may have longer and stronger relationship with these suppliers than we do; • some of our silicon and silicon wafer suppliers do not manufacture silicon themselves, but instead purchase their requirements from other vendors. It is possible that these suppliers will not be able to obtain sufficient silicon or silicon wafers to satisfy their contractual obligations to us; and • our purchase of silicon-related materials is subject to the business risk of our suppliers, one or more of which may go out of business for any one of a number of reasons beyond our control in the current economic environment. If we fail to obtain delivery of silicon-related materials in amounts and according to time schedules that we expect, we may be forced to reduce production, which will adversely affect our revenues. Our failure to obtain the required amounts of silicon-related materials on time and at commercially reasonable prices could substantially limit our ability to meet our contractual obligations to deliver PV products to our customers. Any failure by us to meet such obligations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, retention of customers, market share, business and results of operations and may subject us to claims from our customers and other disputes. 11 Table of Contents We currently have a significant amount of debt outstanding and can incur additional indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness may limit our future financing capabilities and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The principal amount of our total bank borrowings outstanding was RMB3,785.8 million (US$625.4 million) as of December 31, 2013, of which RMB1,105.6 million (US$182.6 million) were short-term bank borrowings. In addition, we had US$100.6 million principal amount of convertible bonds, with carrying value of RMB470.4 million (US$77.7 million) outstanding, and RMB609.7 million (US$100.7 million) in long-term notes as of December 31, 2013. We may also incur additional indebtedness. Our debt could have a significant impact on our future operations and cash flow, including: • making it more difficult for us to fulfill payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt, including repayment of our long- and short-term credit facilities should we be unable to obtain extensions for any such facilities before they mature, as well as our obligations under our convertible bonds; • triggering an event of default, if we fail to comply with any of our payment or other obligations contained in our debt agreements and fail to obtain waivers, which could result in cross-defaults causing all or a substantial portion of our debt to become immediately due and payable and other penalties; • reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and adversely affecting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • potentially increasing the cost of any additional financing; and • putting pressure on the ADS price due to concerns of our inability to repay our debt and making it more difficult for us to conduct equity financings in the capital markets. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future or to refinance such debt. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to meet our obligations under our outstanding debt and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet such obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, to sell our assets, to reduce or delay our capital investments, or to seek additional equity or debt financing. We cannot assure you that future financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased interest rate risk and debt service obligations, and could result in operating and financing covenants that would further restrict our operations and limit our ability to obtain the financing required to fund future capital expenditures and working capital. As a result, our ability to plan for, or react effectively to, changing market conditions may be adversely and materially affected. We require a significant amount of capital to fund our operations as well as meet future capital requirements. If we cannot obtain additional capital when we need it, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We typically require a significant amount of capital to fund our operations. We also require cash generally to meet future capital requirements, which are difficult to plan in the rapidly changing PV industry. The principal amount of our total bank borrowings and notes outstanding was RMB3,785.8 million (US$625.4 million) and RMB609.7 million (US$100.7 million) as of December 31, 2013. We cannot assure you that future financing will be available on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by manufacturers of PV and related products; and • economic, political and other conditions in the PRC and elsewhere in the world. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain necessary financing in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, our growth prospects and future profitability may decrease materially. Our subsidiaries’ loan agreements and other debt instruments contain financial covenants that require the borrower and the guarantor to maintain certain financial ratios. Certain of our subsidiaries have outstanding bank loans and other debt instruments that require such subsidiary, and our parent company as guarantor, to maintain certain financial ratios that are tested semi-annually. Such debt instruments also contain standard cross-default provisions under which an event of default under one such instrument would trigger a right to accelerate payment under another instrument. From time to time there have been a few instances where these financial ratios have not been met at the relevant measurement dates. In such cases, we and our subsidiaries and parent company, where applicable, have obtained waivers from the lenders to cure such defaults and avoid cross-acceleration of other debt instruments. In the future, our subsidiaries and parent company may similarly fail to maintain such financial ratios or violate other covenants contained in such debt instruments, and may not be able to obtain waivers for or otherwise cure such defaults, which may cause our indebtedness to become immediately due and payable. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our PV products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our expansion may be materially and adversely affected. A substantial majority of our revenue has been generated by sales to customers outside of China. The marketing, distribution and sale of our PV products overseas expose us to a number of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates of the U.S. dollar, Euro and other foreign currencies against the Renminbi; • difficulty in engaging and retaining distributors and agents who are knowledgeable about, and can function effectively in, overseas markets; • increased costs associated with maintaining marketing and sales activities in various countries; • difficulty and costs relating to compliance with different commercial and legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which we offer our products; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and • trade barriers, such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our ability to conduct or expand our business abroad would be impaired, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Changes in international trade policies and international barriers to trade may material adversely affect our ability to export our products worldwide. In October 2011, a trade action was filed with the U.S. Department of Commerce, or USDOC, and the U.S. International Trade Commission, or USITC, by seven U.S. firms, accusing Chinese producers of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells, or CSPV cells, of selling their products into the United States at less than fair value, or dumping, and of receiving countervailable subsidies from the Chinese authorities. On October 9, 2012, the USDOC issued final affirmative determinations in the anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigations. On November 7, 2012, the USITC ruled that imports of CSPV cells had caused material injury to the U.S. CSPV industry. Finally, on December 7, 2012, the USDOC issued AD and 13 Table of Contents CVD orders. Consequently, imports of solar panels from SolarOne Qidong are subject to a combined effective AD and CVD deposit rate of 29.18%, of which 15.24% is attributable to the CVD. Imports of solar panels from SolarOne Hong Kong are subject to a combined effective rate of 254.66%, which is comprised of an AD of 239.42% and a CVD of 15.24%. Actual AD and CVD ultimately due will be determined by the DOC after its review of actual transactions. Such review takes place annually in the anniversary month of the publication of the AD and CVD Orders upon request, and covers the preceding one-year period. As noted above, the anniversary month of the AD and CVD orders is December; accordingly. In December 2013, the U.S. industry requested administrative reviews in both the AD and CVD cases and the resulting reviews were initiated by the USDOC on February 3, 2014. The U.S. industry requested that SolarOne Qidong be reviewed in both the AD and the CVD case. Those reviews are ongoing and expected to be completed in 12 to 18 months. On December 31, 2013, SolarWorld Industries America, Inc. filed new AD cases against similar CSPV products from China and Taiwan and a new CVD case against China. These new cases seek AD and CVD against (i) CSPV products with cells with any stage of production in China, if the cells are assembled in China, regardless of the country of origin of the cells, as well as (ii) CSPV products containing cells that were of Taiwanese origin. The USDOC and USITC initiated investigations on January 21, 2014. On February 24, 2014, the USITC issued a preliminary determination that there is a reasonable indication that imports of these products had caused material injury to the U.S. industry. On September 6 and November 8, 2012, the European Commission initiated an anti-dumping proceeding and an anti-subsidy proceeding concerning imports of crystalline silicon PV modules and key components, such as cells and wafers, originating in China. On July 27, 2013, the European Union and Chinese trade negotiators announced that an agreement has been reached pursuant to which Chinese manufacturers, including us, would limit our export of solar panels and cells to the European Union and for no less than a minimum price, in exchange for the European Union agreeing to forgo the imposition of anti-dumping duties on these solar panels from China. The offer was approved by the European Commission on August 2, 2013, and the final version was published on December 5, 2013. The Chamber of Commerce Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic Product (CCCME) of China will be responsible for allocating the quota between PV companies, and we have been allocated a portion of the quota. Solar panels and cells imported in excess of the annual quota will be subject to anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties. This price undertaking and annual quota have also resolved the parallel anti-subsidy investigation. For companies that would violate the price undertaking or the quota, or which do not form part of the agreement, definitive duties will be levied as per the definitive anti-dumping and anti-subsidy Regulations that were published on December 5, 2013. Finally, it should be noted that wafers have been excluded from the scope of both the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures. It is also possible that other AD or CVD or other import restrictive proceedings may be initiated in other jurisdictions. For example, in November 2012, India initiated AD investigations against solar cell imported from China, the United States, Malaysia and Taiwan. We cannot guarantee that the proceeding will be determined in our favor. In addition, if such proceedings were successfully pursued in jurisdictions where we export the majority of our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Violations of laws of AD and CVD can result in significant additional duties imposed on exports of our products into these countries, which could increase our costs of accessing future additional markets. On July 18, 2013, the Ministry of Commerce of People’s Republic of China, or MOFCOM, issued a preliminary ruling imposing provisionary anti-dumping duties commencing on July 24, 2013 and ending on January 19, 2014, and on January 20, 2014, a final ruling imposing anti-dumping duties, commencing on January 20, 2014, on certain importers of solar grade polysilicon products from the United States and South Korea, based on its determination of the dumping margin of the relevant original manufacturer. On September 16, 2013, MOFCOM issued a preliminary ruling imposing provisionary countervailing duties, 14 Table of Contents commencing on September 20, 2013 and ending on January 19, 2014, and on January 20, 2014, a final ruling imposing countervailing duties commencing on January 20, 2014 on certain importers of solar grade polysilicon products from the United States, based on its determination of the ad valorem subsidy rate of the relevant original manufacturer. MOFCOM has also investigated imposing anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations on certain importers of solar grade polysilicon products from the European Union, and, on October 31, 2013, MOFCOM extended the deadline of the investigation to May 1, 2014. On January 24, 2014, MOFCOM issued a preliminary ruling which determined that the dumping and subsidies have been found in relation to solar grade polysilicon products from the European Union, but considering the unique market situation, MOFCOM decided not to impose provisionary anti-dumping or countervailing duties for the time being. While these tariffs did not materially increase our cost of production in 2013, we cannot guarantee that these tariffs will not have a material and adverse effect in the future. In response to increasing trade tensions in the international solar market, we are undertaking efforts to avoid or alleviate the impacts from the present and foreseeable AD and CVD proceedings. However, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful due to potential policy changes or other changes in the activities and practices of the various national trade authorities responsible for AD and CVD enforcement. If we are unable to compete in the highly competitive PV market, our revenue and profits may decrease and we may lose market share. The PV market is very competitive. We face competition from a number of PV manufacturers, including domestic, foreign and multinational corporations. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the markets for our products are: • manufacturing capacity; • power efficiency; • product offerings and quality of products; • price; • strength of supply chain and distribution network; • after-sales services; and • brand name recognition. Our competitors include domestic companies owned or controlled by PRC persons or entities, who may be more competitive when obtaining government support, local financing or otherwise expanding in local markets. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, access to larger customer bases and resources and significantly greater economies of scale than we do. In particular, many of our competitors are developing and manufacturing solar energy products based on new technologies that may ultimately have costs similar to, or lower than, our projected costs. In addition, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or devote more resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we can. Furthermore, competitors with more diversified product offerings may be better positioned to withstand a decline in the demand for PV products. Some of our competitors have also become vertically integrated, with businesses ranging from upstream silicon wafer manufacturing to solar power system integration. We have only recently expanded our business to include solar power system integration and we may not have the same level of expertise and customer base as our competitors, which may affect our ability to successfully expand this business line. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among existing competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. For instance, several semiconductor manufacturers have already announced their intention to commence production of PV cells and PV modules. If we fail to compete successfully, our business would suffer and we may lose or be unable to gain market share and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents In addition, the PV market in general competes with other sources of renewable energy as well as conventional power generation. If prices for conventional and other renewable energy resources decline, or if these resources enjoy greater policy support than solar power, the PV market and our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to respond to rapid market changes in the PV industry, including by developing new technologies and offering additional products and services. The PV industry is characterized by rapid changes in the diversity and complexity of technologies, products and services. In particular, the ongoing evolution of technological standards requires products with improved features, such as more efficient and higher power output and improved aesthetics. As a result, we expect that we will need to develop, or obtain access to, advances in technologies on a continuous basis in order for us to respond to competitive market conditions and customer demands. In addition, advances in technologies typically lead to declining average selling prices for products using older technologies or make our current products less competitive or obsolete. As a result, the profitability of any given product, and our overall profitability, may decrease over time. In addition, we will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to maintain our competitiveness and keep pace with technological advances in the PV industry. However, commercial acceptance by customers of new products we offer may not occur at the rate or level expected, and we may not be able to successfully adapt existing products to effectively and economically meet customer demands, thus impairing the return from our investments. We may also be required under the applicable accounting standards to recognize a charge for the impairment of assets to the extent our existing products become uncompetitive or obsolete, or if any new products fail to achieve commercial acceptance. Any such charge may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, in response to the rapidly evolving conditions in the PV industry, we started to expand our business downstream to provide system integration products and services in 2010. This expansion requires significant investment and management attention from us, and we are likely to face intense competition from companies that have extensive experience and well-established businesses and customer bases in the system integration sector. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in expanding our business downstream. Our ability to successfully implement our downstream business integration is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including: • our short history in the new businesses; • our possible lack of competitiveness in product quality and cost structure in the new businesses; • the need for additional capital to finance our new business operations, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; • the need to recruit additional skilled employees, including technicians and managers at different levels; • the need to grant longer credit terms to our customers and to maintain a higher level of inventory, resulting in longer cash conversion cycles compared with our traditional solar business; • the need to expand certain warranty liabilities associated with the solar module business, with the warranty period for PV modules lasting for 25 years if determined not to be remote; • the need to accrue warranty from sales of solar modules, which may not be adequate and we may have to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective solar modules in the future; • the nature of the business model and key success factors of our EPC service, which are significantly different from those of our traditional business in solar product manufacturing; 16 Table of Contents • potential conflict with our downstream customers as a result of our direct competition with them in the solar module and EPC businesses; and • new risks associated with solar modules, EPC service and project development businesses yet to be fully understood by the industry and market. If we are not able to bring quality products and services to market in a timely and cost-effective manner and successfully market and sell these products and services, our ability to continue penetrating the PV market, as well as our results of operations and profitability, will be materially and adversely affected. Our future success also depends on our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments and to establish and maintain strategic alliances, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our market penetration, revenue growth and profitability. In addition, such strategic acquisitions, alliances and investments themselves entail significant risks that could materially and adversely affect our business. We are pursuing expansion into PV system integration services through our subsidiaries, Hanwha SolarOne (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. and Hanwha SolarOne Electric Power Engineering Co., Ltd., and we may pursue upstream silicon feedstock sourcing through strategic partnerships and investments in the future. We may also establish strategic alliances with third parties in the PV industry to develop new technologies and to expand our marketing channels. These types of transactions could require that our management develop expertise in new areas, make significant investments in research and development, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. They may also require significant attention from our management, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. We may also experience difficulties integrating acquisitions and investments into our existing business and operations and retaining key technical and managerial personnel of acquired companies. Strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances with third parties may be expensive to implement and could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information and loss of control of operations that are material to our business. We may assume unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances through acquisitions and investments. Moreover, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances subject us to the risk of non-performance by a counterparty, which may in turn lead to monetary losses that materially and adversely affect our business. As a result, we may not be able to successfully make such strategic acquisitions and investments or to establish strategic alliances with third parties that will be effective or beneficial for our business. Any difficulty we face in this regard could have a material adverse effect on our market penetration, results of operations and profitability. Problems with product quality or product performance could result in a decrease in customers and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. In addition, product liability or warranty claims against us could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages. Prior to 2012, our PV products were typically sold with a 2 to 5-year warranty for technical defects, and a 10 to 12-year limited warranty against declines of greater than 10%, a 15-year limited warranty against declines of greater than 12% for our mono PV modules and 11% for our poly PV modules and a 25-year limited warranty against declines of greater than 20%, in their initial power generation capacity. Since January 2012, we started to extend our material and workmanship warranty for PV modules to 12 years and replace our existing warranty for power generation capacity with an improved 25-year linear warranty. Under the new 25-year linear warranty, we guarantee no less than 97% of the nominal power generation capacity for our typical multicrystalline PV modules and 96% of the nominal power generation capacity for our typical monocrystalline PV modules in the first year and an annual output degradation of no more than 0.7% thereafter. By the end of the 25th year, the actual power output shall be no less than 82% of the nominal power generation capacity. Our warranties may be transferred to third parties who purchase our PV modules. 17 Table of Contents Since our products have been in use for only a relatively short period, our assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our products may not be accurate. In particular, the performance of newly developed products may be especially difficult to predict. We consider various factors when determining the likelihood of product defects, including an evaluation of our quality controls, technical analysis, industry information on comparable companies and our own experience. We estimate the amount of our warranty obligation primarily based on the results of technical analyses, our historical warranty claims experience, the warranty accrual practices of comparable companies, and the expected failure rate and future costs to service failed products. The results of the technical analyses support the future operational efficiency of the PV modules at levels significantly above the minimum guaranteed levels over the respective warranty periods. The estimate of warranty costs is affected by the estimated and actual product failure rates, the costs to repair or replace failed products and potential service and delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Based on the considerations above and management’s ability and intention to provide repairs, replacements or refunds for defective products, we have accrued for warranty costs for the 2 to 12-year warranty against technical defects based on 1% of revenue for PV modules. No warranty cost accrual has been recorded for the 10-year and 20 to 25-year warranties for decline from initial power generation capacity because we determined the likelihood of claims arising from these warranties to be remote based on internal and external testing of the PV modules and strong quality control procedures in the production process. Based on the results of analysis and technical testing, the revision to our warranty policy in January 2012 did not have a material effect on our warranty accrual rate. The basis for the warranty accrual will be reviewed periodically based on actual experience. As of December 31, 2011, our accrued warranty costs totaled RMB162.1 million for the 3 to 5-year warranty against technical and material defects, and as of December 31, 2012 and 2013, totaled RMB177.9 million and RMB181.4 million (US$30.0 million) for the 5 to 12-year warranty against technical and material defects, respectively. If our PV modules fail to perform to the standards of the performance guarantee, we could incur substantial expenses and substantial cash outlays to repair, replace or provide refunds for the under-performing products, which could negatively impact our overall cash position. In addition, we may also suffer increased accounts receivables, as customers in certain circumstances refuse to accept and pay for defective products. Any increase in the defect rate of our products would increase the amount of our warranty costs and we may not have adequate warranty provision to cover such warranty costs, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, we purchase silicon-related materials and other components that we use in our products from third parties. Unlike PV modules, which are subject to certain uniform international standards, silicon-related materials generally do not have uniform international standards, and it is often difficult to determine whether product defects are caused by defects in silicon, silicon wafers or other components of our products or caused by other reasons. Even assuming that our product defects are caused by defects in raw materials, we may not be able to recover our warranty costs from our suppliers because the agreements we entered into with our suppliers typically contain no or only limited warranties. The possibility of future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expense to provide refunds or resolve disputes with regard to warranty claims through litigation, arbitration or other means, or damage our market reputation and cause our sales to decline. As with other PV product manufacturers, we are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims if the use of the PV products we sell results in injury, death or damage to property. We cannot predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business. See “—We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from product liability claims or business interruptions.” 18 Table of Contents If PV technology is not suitable for widespread adoption, or sufficient demand for PV products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipated, our sales may not continue to increase or may even decline, and our revenue and profitability would be reduced. The PV market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which PV products will be widely adopted is uncertain. Furthermore, market data in the PV industry are not as readily available as those in other more established industries, where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. If PV technology, in particular the type of PV technology that we have adopted, proves unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for PV products fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to grow our business or generate sufficient revenue to be profitable. In addition, demand for PV products in our targeted markets, including China, may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipated. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and demand for PV products, including: • cost-effectiveness of PV products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; • performance and reliability of PV products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; • availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the PV industry or other energy resource industries; • success of other alternative energy generation technologies, such as fuel cells, wind power and biomass; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; • capital expenditures by end users of PV products, which tend to decrease when the overall economy slows down; and • deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry. One of our existing shareholders has substantial influence over our company and its interests may not always be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Hanwha Solar owns approximately 48.6% of our outstanding share capital, as of December 31, 2013. Pursuant to a shareholder agreement between Hanwha Solar and our company dated September 16, 2010, as amended on November 12, 2013, Hanwha Solar has the right to nominate directors to the board according to a formula based on its share ownership in the company and veto major corporate actions. Hanwha Solar has substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for its shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of the ADSs. In addition, without the consent of Hanwha Solar, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. Hanwha Solar may cause us to take actions that are opposed by other shareholders as its interests may differ from those of other shareholders. Hanwha Group, a company that controls Hanwha Solar, also has several subsidiaries in the solar industry, some of which are our key customers. We depend to a certain extent on the support of Hanwha Group. For example, entities of Hanwha Group are our existing customers and we may also source raw materials from entities of Hanwha Group in the future. If Hanwha Group reduces its shareholding in our company or chooses to devote resources to other priorities, such as other companies in which it holds interests, including other companies in the solar industry, for any reason and not to us, our results of operations could be adversely affected. How Hanwha Group positions our company among its subsidiaries and other investments could have a material impact on our results of operations. Hanwha Group’s strategic plan involving our company may not always be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Additionally, Hanwha Group could increase its ownership in us above 50%, which would make it our majority shareholder, and could trigger repurchase obligations under certain of our indebtedness. 19 Table of Contents Existing regulations and policies governing the electricity utility industry, as well as changes to regulations and policies affecting PV products, may adversely affect demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. The electric utility industry is subject to extensive regulation, and the market for PV products is heavily influenced by these regulations as well as the policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often affect electricity pricing and technical interconnection of end-user power generation. As the market for solar and other alternative energy sources continues to evolve, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in research and development of, solar and other alternative energy sources may be significantly affected by these regulations and policies, which could significantly reduce demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. Moreover, we expect that our PV products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters in various countries. We also have to comply with the requirements of individual localities and design equipment to comply with varying standards applicable in the jurisdictions where we conduct business. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our PV products may result in significant additional expenses to us, our distributors and end users and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our PV products, as well as materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The lack or inaccessibility of subsidies or financing for off-grid solar energy applications could cause our sales to decline. Some of our products are used for “off-grid” solar energy applications in developed and developing countries, where solar energy is provided to end users independent of an electricity transmission grid. In some countries, government agencies and the private sector have, from time to time, provided subsidies or financing on preferred terms for rural electrification programs. We believe that the availability of financing could have a significant effect on the level of sales of off-grid solar energy applications, particularly in developing countries where users may not have sufficient resources or credit to otherwise acquire PV systems. If existing subsidies or financing programs for off-grid solar energy applications are eliminated or if financing becomes inaccessible, the growth of the market for off-grid solar energy applications may be materially and adversely affected, which may cause our sales to decline. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. Nevertheless, these afford only limited protection and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. In particular, implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technologies can be difficult and expensive. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We also cannot assure you that the outcome of any such litigation would be in our favor. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. Furthermore, any such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention away from our business as well as require us to expend other resources. We have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, particularly in jurisdictions outside China which, if determined adversely against us, could disrupt our business and subject us to significant liability to third parties, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use and develop our technologies and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. As we continue to market and sell our products internationally, and as litigation becomes more common in the PRC, we face a higher risk of being the subject of claims for intellectual property infringement, as well as having indemnification relating to other parties’ proprietary rights held to be invalid. Our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have or may obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in the European Union, the PRC or other countries. The validity and scope of claims relating to PV technology patents involve complex, scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. In addition, the defense of intellectual property claims, including patent infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming, and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such litigation or proceeding to which we may become a party could cause us to: • pay damage awards; • seek licenses from third parties; • pay ongoing royalties; • redesign our products; or • be restricted by injunctions, each of which could effectively prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business and result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain sufficient patent protection on the technologies embodied in the PV products we currently manufacture and sell, which could reduce our competitiveness and increase our expenses. Although we rely primarily on trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect the technologies in the PV cells and PV modules we currently manufacture and sell, our success and ability to compete in the future may also depend to a significant degree on obtaining patent protection for our proprietary technologies. As of the date of this annual report, we had 52 issued patents and 18 pending patent applications in the PRC. We do not have, and have not applied for, any material patents for our proprietary technologies outside the PRC. As the protections afforded by our patents are effective only in the PRC, our competitors and other companies may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies, and obtain patents for such technologies in other jurisdictions, including the countries in which we sell our products. Moreover, our patent applications in the PRC may not result in issued patents, and even if they do result in issued patents, the patents may not have claims of the scope we seek. In addition, any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable. As a result, our present and future patents may provide only limited protection for our technologies, and may not be sufficient to provide competitive advantages to us. We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth may be severely disrupted if we lose their services or fail to recruit new qualified personnel. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of some of our directors and key executives. If we lose the services of one or more of our current directors and executive officers, we may not be 21 Table of Contents able to replace them readily, if at all, with suitable or qualified candidates, and may incur additional time and expenses to recruit, retain and integrate new directors and officers, particularly those with a significant mix of both international and China-based PV industry experience similar to our current directors and officers, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. In addition, if any of our directors or executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Each of the executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any disputes arise between these directors or executive officers and us, it is not clear the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced outside of the United States, where most of these directors and executive officers reside and hold some of their assets, particularly in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us.” Furthermore, as we expect to continue to expand our operations and develop new products, we will need to continue attracting and retaining experienced management and key research and development personnel. Competition for personnel in the PV industry in China is intense, and the availability of suitable and qualified candidates is limited. In particular, we compete to attract and retain qualified research and development personnel with other PV technology companies, universities and research institutions. Competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also be unable to attract or retain the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives, and any failure in this regard could severely disrupt our business and growth. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the market price of the ADSs. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring most public companies to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, when a company meets the SEC’s criteria, an independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management and independent registered public accounting firm have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 was effective. However, we cannot assure you that in the future our management or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify material weaknesses during the Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act audit process or for other reasons. In addition, because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or should we be unable to prevent or detect material misstatements due to error or fraud on a timely basis, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business, results of operations and negatively impact the market price of the ADSs, and harm our reputation. Furthermore, we have incurred and expected to continue to incur considerable costs and to use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from business interruptions or product liability claims. We are subject to risk of explosion and fires, as highly flammable gases, such as silane and nitrogen gas, are generated in our manufacturing processes. While we have not experienced to date any major explosion or fire, the risks associated with these gases cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, natural disasters such as floods or earthquakes, or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruption, telecommunications 22 Table of Contents failures, equipment failures, explosions, fires, break-ins, terrorist attacks or acts of war, could significantly disrupt our ability to manufacture our products and to operate our business. If any of our production facilities or material equipment were to experience any significant damage or downtime, we might be unable to meet our production targets and our business could suffer. Although we have obtained business interruption insurance, it may not be able to fully cover losses caused by the business interruption because business interruption insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries. We are also exposed to risks associated with product liability claims in the event that the use of the PV products we sell results in injury, death or damage to property. Due to limited historical experience, we are unable to predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. Moreover, we only have limited product liability insurance and may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any environmental claims or failure to comply with any present or future environmental regulations may require us to spend additional funds and may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of chemical by products of, and water used in, our manufacturing operations and research and development activities, including toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes. As of the date of this annual report, we are still in the process of obtaining certain necessary environmental licenses and approvals for our factories. Although we have not suffered material environmental claims in the past, failure to comply with any present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production or a cessation of our operations. New regulations could also require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspension of our business, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. The use of certain hazardous substances, such as lead, in various products is also coming under increasingly stringent governmental regulation. Increased environmental regulation in this area could adversely impact the manufacture and sale of solar modules that contain lead and could require us to make unanticipated environmental expenditures. For example, the European Union Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or the WEEE Directive, requires manufacturers of certain electrical and electronic equipment to be financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of specified products placed on the market in the European Union. In addition, European Union Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the use of Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment, or the RoHS Directive, restricts the use of certain hazardous substances, including lead, in specified products. Other jurisdictions are considering adopting similar legislation. Currently, we are not required under the WEEE or RoHS Directives to collect, recycle or dispose any of our products. However, the Directives allow for future amendments subjecting additional products to the Directives’ requirements. If, in the future, our PV products become subject to such requirements, we may be required to apply for an exemption. If we were unable to obtain an exemption, we would be required to redesign our PV products in order to continue to offer them for sale within the European Union, which would be impractical. Failure to comply with the Directives could result in fines and penalties, inability to sell our PV products in the European Union, competitive disadvantages and loss of net sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Our business benefits from certain PRC government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. On March 16, 2007, the PRC government promulgated the Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Enterprise Income Tax, or the EIT, which took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT, domestically owned enterprises and foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, are subject to a uniform tax rate of 25%. While the EIT equalizes the tax rates for FIEs and domestically owned enterprises, preferential tax treatment continues to be granted to companies in certain encouraged sectors, and entities classified as “high and new technology enterprises” are entitled to a 15% EIT rate, whether domestically owned enterprises or FIEs. The EIT also provided a five-year transition period starting from its effective date for those enterprises which were established before the promulgation date of the EIT and which were entitled to a preferential lower tax rate or tax holiday under the then effective tax laws or regulations. The tax rate of such enterprises transitioned to the uniform tax rate within a five-year transition period and the tax holiday, which was enjoyed by such enterprises before the effective date of the EIT, continued to be enjoyed until the end of the holiday. SolarOne Qidong was approved to be qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” on October 21, 2008. The “high and new technology enterprise” status is valid for a period of three years from the date of issuance of the certificate and is subject to an annual self-review process whereby a form is submitted to relevant tax authority for approval to use a beneficial income tax rate. If there are significant changes in the business operations, manufacturing technologies or other criteria that cause the enterprise to no longer meet the criteria as a “high and new technology enterprise,” such status will be terminated from the year of such change. The “high and new technology enterprise” status of SolarOne Qidong was renewed and approved in October 2011. If SolarOne Qidong fails to qualify as a “high and new technology enterprise” in future periods, our income tax expenses would increase, which could have a material and adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. Any reduction or elimination of the preferential tax treatments currently enjoyed by us may significantly increase our income tax expense and materially reduce our net income, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under the EIT, we may be classified as a “Resident Enterprise” of the PRC. Such classification would likely result in negative tax consequences to us and could result in negative tax consequences to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders. Under the EIT, enterprises established under the laws of non-PRC jurisdictions but whose “de facto management body” is located in the PRC are considered “resident enterprises” for PRC tax purposes and are subject to the EIT. According to the Implementation Regulations for the EIT of the PRC issued by the State Council on December 6, 2007, a de facto management body is defined as an establishment that exerts substantial and comprehensive management and control over the business operations, staff, accounting, assets and other aspects of the enterprise. Since substantially all of our management is currently based in the PRC, and may remain in the PRC in the foreseeable future, it is likely that we will be regarded as a “resident enterprise” on a strict interpretation of the EIT and its Implementation Regulations. As of December 31, 2013, we recorded unrecognized tax benefits of RMB143.5 million (US$23.7 million), of which RMB27.4 million (US$4.5 million) was recorded because based on our judgment, we may be deemed as a PRC tax resident pursuant to the EIT. If Hanwha SolarOne Co., Ltd., our holding company, or any of its non-PRC subsidiaries is treated as a “resident enterprise” for PRC tax purposes, Hanwha SolarOne or such subsidiary will be subject to PRC income tax on worldwide income at a uniform tax rate of 25%, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, although the EIT provides that dividend income payments between qualified “resident enterprises” are exempted from the 10% withholding tax, it is not clear whether we will be considered as a qualified “resident enterprise” under the EIT. If we are considered a “non-resident enterprise,” dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in the PRC (through our holding company structure), if any, may be subject to the 10% withholding tax. If we are deemed by the PRC tax authorities to be a “resident enterprise” and declare dividends, under the existing Implementation Regulations of the EIT, dividends paid by us to our shareholders and ADS 24 Table of Contents holders, which are “non-resident enterprises” and do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such an establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, might be subject to PRC withholding tax at 10% or a lower treaty rate. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by non-PRC investors which are “non-resident enterprises” is also subject to PRC withholding income tax at 10% or a lower treaty rate if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. According to the Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Individual Income Tax, or the IIT, as amended, PRC income tax at the rate of 20% is applicable to dividends payable to individual investors if such dividends are regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or ordinary shares by individual investors is also subject to PRC tax at 20% if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are deemed by the PRC tax authorities as a “resident enterprise,” the dividends we pay to our individual investors with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain the individual investors may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, might be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax at 20% or a lower treaty rate. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business as well as result in foreign currency exchange losses. Our financial statements are expressed in, and our functional currency is Renminbi. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro, Japanese Yen and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. The PRC government may decide to adopt an even more flexible currency policy in the future, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. An appreciation of the Renminbi relative to other foreign currencies could decrease the per unit revenue generated from our international sales. If we increased our pricing to compensate for the reduced purchasing power of foreign currencies, we may decrease the market competitiveness, on a price basis, of our products. This could result in a decrease in our international sales and materially and adversely affect our business. A substantial portion of our sales is denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros and Japanese Yen, while a substantial portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi. As a result, the revaluation of the Renminbi starting in July 2005 has increased, and further revaluations could further increase, our costs. The value of, and any dividends payable on, the ADSs in foreign currency terms will also be affected. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, an appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly among the U.S. dollar, Renminbi, Euro and Japanese Yen, also affect our gross and net profit margins and could result in fluctuations in foreign exchange and operating gains and losses. We incurred net foreign currency losses of RMB4.0 million in 2011, gains of RMB8.9 million and RMB43.7 million (US$7.2 million) in 2012 and 2013. In particular, a substantial portion of our net revenues is currently denominated in Euros. Since December 2009, the Euro has fluctuated significantly. A depreciation of the Euro may also have a negative impact on the selling prices of our products in Renminbi terms. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our financial condition and results of operations, and we may incur net foreign currency losses in the future. 25 Table of Contents While we have entered into economic hedging transactions to minimize the impact of short-term foreign currency fluctuations on our revenues that are denominated in a currency other than Renminbi, the effectiveness of these transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge all of our exposure. Our estimates of future revenues that are denominated in foreign currencies may not be accurate, which could result in foreign exchange losses. Any default by the counterparties to these transactions could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and some of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the amount of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has grown significantly since the late 1970s, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth of the PRC economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by solar energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of renewable energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. In particular, the PRC government has, in recent years, promulgated certain laws and regulations and initiated certain government-sponsored programs to encourage the 26 Table of Contents utilization of new forms of energy, including solar energy. We cannot assure you that the implementation of these laws, regulations and government programs will be beneficial to us. In particular, any adverse change in the PRC government’s policies towards the PV industry may have a material adverse effect on our operations as well as on our plans to expand our business into downstream system integration services. We face uncertainty with respect to the implementation of the PV Manufacturing Industry Qualification Standards. On July 4, 2013, the China’s State Council issued the Several Opinions on Promoting the Healthy Development of the PV Industry, regulating the PV industry in China. In addition, on September 16, 2013, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of the PRC, or MIIT, issued the PV Manufacturing Industry Qualification Standards, which became effective as of October 16, 2013. The MIIT standards outline certain requirements for PV manufacturers in China, aiming to reduce the overcapacity of production and promote the healthy development of the industry. For example, the MIIT standards provide detailed requirements for product quality and energy consumption and require that PV manufacturers invest no less than 3% of their annual total sales, and at least a minimum of RMB10 million, in their research and development activities and technology upgrades each year. New manufactures which fail to comply with the relevant requirements under the MIIT standards will not be approved for investment. Existing manufacturers which fail to comply with the relevant requirements will not be entitled to enjoy certain government preferential policies, such as the export tax rebate and domestic financial subsidies. We believe we have materially complied with the qualification requirements under the MIIT standards. However, as the MIIT standards are relatively new, there is uncertainty as to how such standards would be implemented and enforced by the MIIT and how they would affect China’s PV industry or us. If we fail to comply with the MIIT standards, such as the capital expenditure requirement on research and development activities and technology upgrades, we could lose certain government benefits, such as the export tax rebate and domestic financial subsidies, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On October 11, 2013, the MIIT issued the Tentative Measures for Management of the Qualification Publication of the PV Manufacturing Industry. Under the tentative measures, a PV manufacturer meeting the industry qualification standards required by the MIIT may apply for pre-review of its qualification status by the provincial counterpart of the MIIT, which, upon completion of its pre-review, will submit the application to the MIIT for final review and certification. Upon the certification by the MIIT, the PV manufacturer will be published as a “Qualified PV Manufacturing Enterprise” periodically. A qualified PV manufacturing enterprise can also be disqualified and delisted from qualification publication by the MIIT in the event that the enterprise no longer complies with the MIIT standards. On December 30, 2013, SolarOne Qidong was certified by the MIIT as a “Qualified PV Manufacturing Enterprise”. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiary in the PRC, SolarOne Qidong, a Chinese wholly foreign-owned enterprise. SolarOne Qidong is generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 27 Table of Contents Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends or other distributions to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiary, SolarOne Qidong, which is a limited liability company established in China. The payment of dividends by entities organized in, if any, China is subject to limitations. In particular, regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. SolarOne Qidong is also required to set aside at least 10% of its annual after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, SolarOne Qidong is required to allocate a portion of its after-tax profit to its staff welfare and bonus fund at the discretion of its board of directors. Moreover, if SolarOne Qidong incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue effectively. A portion of our revenue and a substantial portion of our expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, SolarOne Qidong may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by SolarOne Qidong under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC governmental authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if SolarOne Qidong borrows foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance SolarOne Qidong by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, the Ministry of Commerce or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of SolarOne Qidong to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, or the SAFE notice, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising fund from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC shareholder of any offshore special purpose company fails to make the required SAFE registration and amendment, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore special purpose company. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for 28 Table of Contents evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC residents have registered with the local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE notice. The failure of these beneficial owners to amend their SAFE registrations in a timely manner pursuant to the SAFE notice or the failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE notice may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also result in a restriction on our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, the NDRC promulgated a rule in October 2004, or the NDRC Rule, requiring overseas investment projects made by PRC entities to be approved by NDRC. The NDRC Rule also sets out the approval procedures for overseas investment projects of PRC individuals. However, uncertainties in terms of interpretation of the NDRC Rule with respect to its application to a PRC individual’s overseas investment remain, and in practice, we are not aware of any precedents that a PRC individual’s overseas investment has been approved by the NDRC or challenged by the NDRC based on the absence of an NDRC approval. We cannot predict how and to what extent this will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, the failure of our shareholders who are PRC individuals to comply with the NDRC Rule may subject these persons or our PRC subsidiary to certain liabilities under PRC laws, which could adversely affect our business. We face uncertainties with respect to application of the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfer of Non-PRC Resident Enterprises. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or SAT Circular 698, issued by the State Administration of Taxation on December 10, 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008, where a non-resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise indirectly via disposing of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that (i) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (ii) does not tax foreign income of its residents, the foreign investor shall report such Indirect Transfer to the competent tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise. The PRC tax authority will examine the true nature of the Indirect Transfer, and if the tax authority considers that the foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement in order to avoid PRC tax, it will disregard the existence of the overseas holding company and re-characterize the Indirect Transfer and, as a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at the rate of up to 10%. SAT Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the relevant tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable gain of the transaction. There is uncertainty as to the application of SAT Circular 698. The relevant PRC authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax in a foreign jurisdiction and how a foreign investor shall report to the competent tax authority an Indirect Transfer. SAT Circular 698 states that it does not apply to purchases or sales of stock on a stock exchange. If we transfer our equity interest in our PRC subsidiaries or when our non-resident investors transfer their shares, we or our non-resident investors may be taxed under SAT Circular 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with SAT Circular 698 or to establish that we or our non-resident investors should not be taxed under SAT Circular 698, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or such non-resident investors’ investment in us. Labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. On December 28, 2012, the PRC government promulgated the amendment to the Labor Contract Law, and such amendment became effective on July 1, 2013. The Labor Contract Law, as amended, imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly impacts the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires certain terminations to be based upon 29 Table of Contents seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the Labor Contract Law, as amended, could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost-effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. On December 20, 2013, the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security of the PRC promulgated the Interim Provisions on Labor Dispatch, or Provisions on Labor Dispatch, which took effect on March 1, 2014. The Provisions on Labor Dispatch provides, among other things, that an employer can hire temporary employees only for temporary, auxiliary and replaceable jobs. The number of temporary employees cannot exceed 10% of the total workforce. If the number of temporary employees exceeds 10% of the total workforce as of March 1, 2014, the employer shall, as a principle, adjust its employment plan and ensure such percentage be reduced to 10% or below no later than March 1, 2016. Before such percentage is adjusted to 10% or below, the employer shall not hire any new temporary employees. Our number of temporary employees is currently over 10% of our total workforce. We may not be able to reduce such percentage to 10% or below prior to March 1, 2016. As a result, we may not be able to retain any additional temporary employees and such inability to retain additional temporary employees could render us less competitive than other manufacturers, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Adverse public health epidemics or pandemics could disrupt business and the economics of the PRC and other countries where we do business. In 2009, there were outbreaks of swine flu, caused by H1N1 virus, in certain regions of the world, including China. In the past few years, there were reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. In April 2013, there were reports of cases of H7N9 avian flu in southeast China, including deaths in Shanghai and Zhejiang Province. Any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, avian flu, swine flu or other similar adverse public developments in China may, among other things, significantly disrupt our business, including limiting our ability to travel or ship our products within or outside China and forcing us to temporary close our manufacturing facilities. Furthermore, an outbreak may severely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. In May 2013, PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process 30 Table of Contents to improve future audit quality. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. We may be adversely affected by the outcome of the administrative proceedings brought by the SEC against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms. In December 2012, the SEC brought administrative proceedings against the Big Four accounting firms in China, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these accounting firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ audit papers and other documents related to certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. On January 22, 2014, the Administrative Law Judge presiding over the matter reached an initial decision that the firms had each violated the SEC’s rules of practice by failing to produce the audit work papers and related documents directly to the SEC. The initial decision further determined that each of the firms should be censured and barred from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The Big Four PRC-based accounting firms recently appealed the initial administrative law decision to the SEC. The initial administrative law decision will not become effective until and unless it is endorsed by the full SEC. The accounting firms can then further appeal the final decision of the SEC through the federal appellate courts. We were not and are not subject to any SEC investigations, nor are we involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the accounting firms. However, the independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC is one of the four accounting firms subject to the six month suspension from practicing before the SEC in the initial administrative law decision. We may therefore be adversely affected by the outcome of the proceedings, along with other U.S.-listed companies audited by these accounting firms. While we cannot predict the outcome of the SEC’s review, nor that of any subsequent appeal process, if the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, are ultimately temporarily barred from practicing before the SEC, and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to our delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The market price of the ADSs may be volatile. The market price of the ADSs has exhibited, and may continue to exhibit, significant volatility. For the period from December 20, 2006 to April 11, 2014, the closing price of the ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market has ranged from a low of US$0.77 per ADS to a high of US$37.64 per ADS. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of the ADSs, including, among other things: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the conversion efficiencies of our products or those of our competitors; 31 Table of Contents • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates or other material comments by securities analysts relating to us, our competitors or our industry in general; • announcements by other companies in our industry relating to their operations, strategic initiatives, financial condition or financial performance or to our industry in general; • announcements of acquisitions or consolidations involving industry competitors or industry suppliers; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other PV technology companies; • changes in international trade policies and international barriers to trade; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of the ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. Future issuances of ordinary shares, ADSs or equity-related securities may depress the trading price of the ADSs. Any issuance of equity securities could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of the ADSs. We may issue equity securities through public offerings or private placements in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity and to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. Sales of a substantial number of ADSs or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of the ADSs, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of the ADSs or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of the ADSs. In addition, the price of the ADSs could be affected by possible sales of the ADSs by investors who view the convertible notes as a more attractive means of obtaining equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our convertible notes. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our amended and restated articles of association limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of the ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights as our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our amended and restated articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene an annual general meeting or any extraordinary general meeting calling for the passing of a special resolution is 20 days and the minimum notice period required to convene any other extraordinary general meeting is 14 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. If requested in writing by us, the depositary will mail a notice of such a meeting to you. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but you may not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, in the event we conduct any rights offering in the future, the depositary may not make such rights available to you or may dispose of such rights and make the net proceeds available to you. As a result, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary for the ADS facility has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. As a result, the depositary may decide not to make the distribution and you will not receive such distribution. 33 Table of Contents We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, ADS holders may have less protection for their shareholder rights than such holders would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association as may be amended from time to time, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of our assets and a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. There are uncertainties as to whether Cayman Islands courts would: • recognize or enforce against us or our directors, judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • entertain original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken against management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. We do not currently expect to be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year or the foreseeable future. Our actual PFIC status for the current taxable 34 Table of Contents year, however, will not be determinable until the close of the current taxable year ending December 31, 2014, and accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation, such as our company, is considered to be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income; or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined below under “Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation”) holds the ADSs or ordinary shares, such U.S. Holder will generally be subject to special tax rules with respect to any “excess distribution” received on the ADSs or ordinary shares and any gain realized from a sale or other disposition (including a pledge) of the ADSs or ordinary shares. A U.S. Holder may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences as a result of these rules. For more information, see “Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Status.” 