D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry Evaluating our business and prospects may be difficult because of our limited operating history, and our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. There is limited historical information available about our company upon which you can base your evaluation of our business and prospects. We began operations in August 2004 and shipped our first PV modules and our first PV cells in February 2005 and November 2005, respectively. Our business has grown and evolved at a rapid rate since we started our operations. As a result, our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects and we may not be able to achieve a similar growth rate in future periods. In particular, our future success will require us to continue to increase the manufacturing capacity of our facilities significantly beyond their current capacities. Moreover, our business model, technology and ability to achieve satisfactory manufacturing yields at higher volumes are unproven. Therefore, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as a company with a relatively short operating history in a competitive industry seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a rapidly growing market, and you should not rely on our past results or our historic rate of growth as an indication of our future performance. 6 Table of Contents Our future success substantially depends on our ability to further expand both our manufacturing capacity and output, which is subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If we fail to achieve this further expansion, we may be unable to grow our business and revenue, reduce our costs per watt, maintain our competitive position or improve our profitability. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase both our manufacturing capacity and output. We plan to expand our business to address growth in demand for our products, as well as to capture new market opportunities. Our ability to establish additional manufacturing capacity and increase output is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: • the need for additional funding to purchase and prepay for raw materials or to build manufacturing facilities, which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; • delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be beyond our control, such as increases in raw materials prices and problems with equipment vendors; • the inability to obtain or delays in obtaining required approvals by relevant government authorities; • diversion of significant management attention and other resources; and • failure to execute our expansion plan effectively. In order to manage the potential growth of our operations, we will be required to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, increase manufacturing capacity and output, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Furthermore, our management will be required to maintain and expand our relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. We cannot assure you that our current and planned operations, personnel, systems and internal procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future growth. If we encounter any of the risks described above, or are otherwise unable to establish or successfully operate additional manufacturing capacity or to increase manufacturing output, we may be unable to grow our business and revenue, reduce our costs per watt, maintain our competitiveness or improve our profitability, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be adversely affected. We acquired an early stage ingot plant. We may not be successful in operating this new plant and expenditures required to ramp up its capacity may strain our capital resources. Furthermore, any shortfall in supply of polysilicon to that plant may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our future business prospects. We have entered into the silicon ingot production business through our acquisition of a 52% equity interest in Yangguang Solar Technology Co., Ltd., or Yangguang Solar, an ingot plant that commenced operations in October 2007. On June 23, 2008, we entered into an agreement to acquire the remaining 48% equity interest in Yangguang Solar from Nantong Linyang Electric Investment Co., Ltd., or Nantong Linyang (as to 18%), Jiangsu Qitian Group Co., Ltd. or, Qitian Group (as to 20%), and Jiangsu Guangyi Technology Co., Ltd., or Jiangsu Guangyi (as to 10%) for an aggregate consideration of approximately RMB355 million (US$48.7 million). Upon the completion of this latest acquisition, Yangguang Solar will become our 100% owned subsidiary. Our expansion into the ingot business aims to secure our access to steady supplies of ingots at reasonable prices, and we intend to integrate such upstream business into our increasingly vertical business model. However, we have no prior experience in operating an ingot plant. The technology for the manufacture of ingots is complex, requires costly equipment and continuous modifications in order to improve yields and product performance. Increases in lead times for delivering ingot-making equipment could also delay or otherwise hamper the development of our ingot business. We will also need to make substantial capital expenditure in installing Yangguang Solar’s production lines and ramping up its capacity in 2008, which may put a strain on our capital resources. Moreover, Yangguang Solar relies on Jiangsu Zhongneng PV Technology Development Co., Ltd., or Zhongneng, which is also an early stage company that has in the past experienced delays in ramping up its operations, to supply a significant portion of its polysilicon requirements. Zhongneng agreed in a share purchase agreement dated June 6, 2007 relating to a previous sale of the equity interests of Yangguang Solar between Zhongneng, as seller, and Nantong 7 Table of Contents Linyang Electric Investment Co., Ltd., formerly Nanjing Linyang Electric Investment Co., Ltd., or Nantong Linyang, Jiangsu Qitian Group Co., Ltd., or Qitian Group and Jiangsu Guangyi Technology Co., Ltd., or Jiangsu Guangyi, as purchasers, to deliver polysilicon to Yangguang Solar in the amount of 50 tons in 2007, 700 tons in 2008 and 1,200 tons in 2009. However, the actual delivered quantity was 27 tons in 2007, and based upon this decreased delivery volume in 2007, it is expected that the amounts to be delivered in 2008 and 2009 may be significantly less. Yangguang Solar is currently receiving polysilicon from Zhongneng based on purchase orders negotiated on a month-to-month basis. In light of this unfavorable situation, Nanjing Linyang, which is controlled by our chairman, Mr. Yonghua Lu, and continues to own an 18% interest in Yangguang Solar, intends to negotiate for the originally committed polysilicon supply amount pursuant to the agreement. Yangguang Solar will attempt to offset any shortfalls from Zhongneng through purchases from other third-party suppliers, including higher-cost spot market purchases. However, we believe there currently is significant excess demand in the global market for polysilicon and polysilicon suppliers may be unable to meet anticipated requirements based on their current production capacity. The ability of Zhongneng to meet the polysilicon requirements of Yangguang Solar could be materially and adversely impacted by many factors, including operational and financial difficulties at Zhongneng. In particular, any merger, acquisition or consolidation transaction involving Zhongneng and any of our competitors could have an adverse impact on our relationship with Zhongneng and our ability to secure adequate supplies of polysilicon for our operations. Moreover, if Zhongneng does not for whatever reason supply polysilicon to Yangguang Solar in sufficient quantities at commercially reasonable prices, Yangguang Solar may be unable to source polysilicon from other third parties and therefore may fail to meet its production targets for 2008 and 2009, which would consequently have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations for those periods and our future business prospects. We depend on a limited number of customers for a high percentage of our revenue and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers, if not immediately replaced, would significantly reduce our revenue and decrease our profitability. We currently sell a substantial portion of our PV products to a limited number of customers. Our five largest customers accounted for an aggregate of 78.8%, 85.4% and 43.0% of our net revenue in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Most of our large customers are located in Europe, particularly Germany, Italy and Spain. The loss of sales to any one of these customers would have a significant negative impact on our business. Sales to our customers are mostly made through non-exclusive arrangements. Due to our dependence on a limited number of customers, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; • selection by one or more of our significant distributor customers of our competitors’ products; • loss of one or more of our significant customers and our failure to identify additional or replacement customers; • any adverse change in the bilateral or multilateral trade relationships between China and European countries, particularly Germany; and • failure of any of our significant customers to make timely payment for our products. We expect our operating results to continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers for a high percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future, as well as the ability of these customers to sell PV products that incorporate our PV products. With certain significant customers, we enter into framework agreements that set forth our customers’ purchase goals and the general conditions under which our sales are to be made. However, such framework agreements are only binding to the extent a purchase order for a specific amount of our products is issued. In addition, certain sales terms of the framework agreements may be adjusted from time to time. For example, we entered into a framework agreement with Social Capital S.L. under which it agreed to purchase 84 MW of PV modules in total from 2007 to 2008. However, since we could not reach an agreement with Social Capital S.L. on actual sales terms, Social Capital 8 Table of Contents S.L. has not made any purchase order of our PV modules and it is unlikely that it will purchase our PV modules in the foreseeable future. In addition, we have in the past had disagreements with our customers relating to the volumes, delivery schedules and pricing terms contained in such framework contracts that have required us to renegotiate these contracts. However, renegotiation of our framework contracts may not always be in our best interests and disagreements on terms could escalate into formal disputes that could cause us to experience order cancellations or harm our reputation. Furthermore, our customer relationships have been developed over a short period of time and are generally in preliminary stages. We cannot be certain that these customers will generate significant revenue for us in the future or if these customer relationships will continue to develop. If our relationships with customers do not continue to develop, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our customers and revenue. Moreover, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected by competition in the market for the end products manufactured by our customers, and any decline in their business could materially harm our revenue and profitability. We are currently experiencing an industry-wide shortage of silicon wafers. The prices that we pay for silicon wafers have increased in the past and we expect prices may continue to increase in the future, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue growth and decrease our gross profit margins and profitability. Silicon wafers are an essential raw material in our production of PV products. Silicon is created by refining quartz or sand, and is melted and grown into crystalline ingots or other forms which are then sliced into wafers. We depend on our suppliers for timely delivery of silicon wafers in sufficient quantities and satisfactory quality, and any disruption in supply or inability to obtain silicon wafers at an acceptable cost, or at all, will materially and adversely affect our business and operations. There is currently an industry-wide shortage of silicon and silicon wafers, which has resulted in significant price increases. Based on our experience, the average prices of silicon and silicon wafers may continue to increase. Moreover, we expect the shortages of silicon and silicon wafers to continue as the PV industry continues to grow and as additional manufacturing capacity is added. Silicon wafers are also used in the semiconductor industry generally and any increase in demand from that sector will exacerbate the current shortage. The production of silicon and silicon wafers is capital intensive and adding manufacturing capacity requires significant lead time. While we are aware that several new facilities for the manufacture of silicon and silicon wafers are under construction around the world, we do not believe that the supply shortage will be remedied in the near term. We expect that the demand for silicon and silicon wafers will continue to outstrip supply for the foreseeable future. We have attempted to ease our supply shortages by prepaying for silicon and silicon wafers and establishing strategic relationships with selected suppliers. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain supplies from them or any other suppliers in sufficient quantities or at acceptable prices. In particular, since some of our suppliers do not themselves manufacture silicon but instead purchase their requirements from other vendors, it is possible that these suppliers will not be able to obtain sufficient silicon to satisfy their contractual obligations to us. In addition, we, like other companies in the PV industry, compete with companies in the semiconductor industry for silicon wafers, and companies in that sector typically have greater purchasing power and market influence than companies in the PV industry. We acquire silicon wafers from our suppliers primarily through short-term supply arrangements for periods ranging from several months to two years. This subjects us to the risk that our suppliers may cease supplying silicon wafers to us for any reason, including due to uncertainties in their financial viability and having committed more volume to customers than they can deliver. These suppliers could also choose not to honor such contracts and we generally have limited resources to seek any form of compensation. Historically, we have re-negotiated our contracts with some of our major suppliers due to price increases in silicon and silicon wafers. We cannot assure you that this would not happen again in the future. If either of these circumstances occurs, our supply of critical raw materials at reasonable costs and our basic ability to conduct our business could be severely restricted. Moreover, since some of our supply contracts may require prepayment of a substantial portion of the contract price, we may not be able to recover such prepayments and we would suffer losses should such suppliers fail to fulfill their delivery obligations under the contracts. Furthermore, we have not fixed the price for a significant portion of the silicon wafers supply for 2008 with some of our suppliers. As a result, the price we will need to pay may need to be adjusted or renegotiated to reflect the prevailing market price around the time of delivery, which may 9 Table of Contents be higher than we expect. Increases in the prices of silicon and silicon wafers have in the past increased our production costs and may materially and adversely impact our cost of revenue, gross margins and profitability. There are a limited number of silicon and silicon wafer suppliers, and many of our competitors also purchase silicon and silicon wafers from these suppliers. In addition, there has been an ongoing trend in the industry towards vertical integration whereby PV cell and PV module manufacturers expand into silicon and silicon wafer manufacturing and silicon and silicon wafer manufacturers expand into PV cell and PV module manufacturing. To the extent that such vertical integration involves mergers or acquisitions of existing silicon or silicon wafer manufacturers, this trend may result in a reduction of the silicon and silicon wafer supply that is freely available in the market to companies such as our company, which may cause additional shortages or increase pricing. Additionally, PV cell and PV module manufacturers that have integrated silicon or silicon wafer manufacturing may have a competitive advantage over us by virtue of having access to their internal silicon or silicon wafer supply at lower cost at a time of market shortages for those materials. Since we have only been purchasing silicon and silicon wafers in bulk for approximately three years, our competitors may have longer and stronger relationships with these suppliers than we do. As we intend to significantly increase our manufacturing output, an inadequate allocation of silicon wafers would have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans. Moreover, the inability to obtain silicon and silicon wafers at commercially reasonable prices or at all would harm our ability to meet existing and future customer demand for our products, and could cause us to make fewer shipments, lose customers and market share and generate lower than anticipated revenue, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for a substantial majority of silicon and silicon wafers could prevent us from delivering our products in a timely manner to our customers in the required quantities, which could result in order cancellations, decreased revenue and loss of market share. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, our five largest suppliers supplied in the aggregate 71.3%, 50.9% and 59.0%, respectively, of our total silicon and silicon wafer purchases. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these or our other suppliers, we may be unable to manufacture our products, our products may only be available at a higher cost or after a long delay, or we could be prevented from delivering our products to our customers in the required quantities, at competitive prices and on acceptable terms of delivery. Problems of this kind could cause us to experience order cancellations, decreased revenue and loss of market share. In general, the failure of a supplier to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner due to lack of supplies or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture our products or could increase our costs, particularly if we are unable to obtain these materials and components from alternative sources in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. Allegations have been made and may be made in the future regarding the quality of our suppliers’ inventories. In addition, some of our suppliers have a limited operating history and limited financial resources, and the contracts we entered into with these suppliers do not clearly provide for adequate remedies to us in the event any of these suppliers is not able to, or otherwise does not, deliver, in a timely manner or at all, any materials it is contractually obligated to deliver. In particular, due to a shortage of raw materials for the production of silicon wafers, increased market demand for silicon wafers, a failure by some silicon suppliers to achieve expected production volumes and other factors, some of our major silicon wafer suppliers failed to fully perform in the past on their silicon wafer supply commitments to us, and we consequently did not receive all of the contractually agreed quantities of silicon wafers from these suppliers. We cannot assure you that we will not experience similar or additional shortfalls of silicon or silicon wafers from our suppliers in the future or that, in the event of such shortfalls, we will be able to find other silicon suppliers to satisfy our production needs. Any disruption in the supply of silicon wafers to us may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to adjust our materials costs may be limited as a result of entering into prepaid, fixed-price arrangements with our suppliers, and it therefore may be difficult for us to respond appropriately in a timely manner to market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We have in the past secured, and plan to continue to secure, our supply of silicon and silicon wafers through prepaid supply arrangements with overseas and domestic suppliers. In the past, we entered into supply contracts with some of our suppliers, under which these suppliers agreed to provide us with specified quantities of silicon wafers and we have made prepayments to these suppliers in accordance with the supply contracts. As of December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, we had advanced RMB61.3 million, RMB238.2 million and RMB640.1 million (US$87.8 million) to our suppliers, respectively. The prices of the supply contracts we entered into with some of our suppliers are fixed. If the prices of silicon or silicon wafers were to decrease in the future and we are locked into prepaid, fixed-price arrangements, we may not be able to adjust our materials costs, and our cost of revenue would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if demand for our PV products decreases, we may incur costs associated with carrying excess materials, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating expenses. To the extent we are not able to pass these increased costs and expenses to our customers, our revenue and profitability may be materially reduced. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations as well as meet future capital requirements. If we cannot obtain additional capital when we need it, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We typically require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations, especially prepayments to suppliers to secure our silicon wafer requirements. We also require cash generally to meet future capital requirements, which are difficult to plan in the rapidly changing PV industry. In particular, we will need capital to fund the expansion of our facilities as well as research and development activities in order to remain competitive. Furthermore, we acquired a 52% equity interest in Yangguang Solar, a newly established silicon ingot plant, in August 2007 and subsequently entered into a share transfer agreement to acquire the remaining 48% stake in June 2008. We will need to make substantial capital expenditures in equipment purchases of Yangguang Solar to ramp up its production capacity in 2008. Any future acquisitions, expansions, or market changes or other developments will cause us to require additional funds. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by manufacturers of PV and related products; and • economic, political and other conditions in the PRC and elsewhere. We cannot assure you that financing will be available on satisfactory terms, or at all. In particular, as of December 31, 2007, RMB940.0 million (US$128.9 million) of our outstanding borrowings were guaranteed by Jiangsu Linyang Electronics Co., Ltd., or Linyang Electronics, a company controlled by Mr. Yonghua Lu, our chairman. We do not have control over Linyang Electronics and Mr. Lu has recently reduced his holding of our shares by a significant amount. See “— Two of our existing shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders.” Mr. Lu also resigned as our chief executive officer as of February 25, 2008. If for any reason Linyang Electronics ceases to guarantee our existing borrowings, it may be difficult for us to obtain necessary financing in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms and our growth prospects and future profitability may decrease materially. 11 Table of Contents We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our PV products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, a substantial majority of our revenue was generated by sales to customers outside of China. The marketing, distribution and sale of our PV products overseas expose us to a number of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates of the U.S. dollar, Euro and other foreign currencies against the Renminbi; • difficulty in engaging and retaining distributors and agents who are knowledgeable about, and can function effectively in, overseas markets; • increased costs associated with maintaining marketing and sales activities in various countries; • difficulty and costs relating to compliance with different commercial and legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which we offer our products; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and • trade barriers, such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our ability to conduct or expand our business abroad would be impaired, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are unable to compete in the highly competitive PV market, our revenue and profits may decrease. The PV market is very competitive. We face competition from a number of sources, including domestic, foreign and multinational corporations. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the markets for our products are: • manufacturing capacity; • power efficiency; • range and quality of products; • price; • strength of supply chain and distribution network; • after-sales inquiry; and • brand image. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and resources and significantly greater economies of scale, and financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. In particular, many of our competitors are developing and manufacturing solar energy products based on new technologies that may ultimately have costs similar to, or lower than, our projected costs. In addition, our competitors may have stronger relationships or have or may enter into exclusive relationships with key suppliers, distributors or system integrators to whom we sell our products. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we can. Furthermore, competitors with more diversified product offerings may be better positioned to withstand a decline in the demand for PV products. Some of our competitors have also become vertically integrated, with businesses ranging from upstream silicon wafer manufacturing to solar power system integration, and we may also face competition from semiconductor manufacturers, several of which have already announced their intention to commence production of PV cells and PV modules. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among existing competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. If we fail to compete successfully, our 12 Table of Contents business would suffer and we may lose or be unable to gain market share and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. In the immediate future, we believe that the competitive arena will increasingly center around securing silicon supply and forming strategic relationships to secure supply of key components and technologies. Many of our competitors have greater access to silicon supply or have upstream silicon wafer manufacturing capabilities. We believe that as the supply of silicon stabilizes over time, competition will become increasingly based upon marketing and sales activities. Since we have conducted limited advertising in the past, the greater sales and marketing resources, experience and name recognition of some of our competitors may make it difficult for us to compete if and when this transition occurs. In addition, the PV market in general competes with other sources of renewable energy as well as conventional power generation. If prices for conventional and other renewable energy resources decline, or if these resources enjoy greater policy support than solar power, the PV market and our business and prospects could suffer. Our profitability depends on our ability to respond to rapid market changes in the PV industry, including by developing new technologies and offering additional products and services. The PV industry is characterized by rapid increases in the diversity and complexity of technologies, products and services. In particular, the ongoing evolution of technological standards requires products with improved features, such as more efficient and higher power output and improved aesthetics. As a result, we expect that we will need to constantly offer more sophisticated products and services in order to respond to competitive industry conditions and customer demands. If we fail to develop, or obtain access to, advances in technologies, or if we are not able to offer more sophisticated products and services, we may become less competitive and less profitable. In addition, advances in technologies typically lead to declining average selling prices for products using older technologies. As a result, if we are not able to reduce the costs associated with our products, the profitability of any given product, and our overall profitability, may decrease over time. Furthermore, technologies developed by our competitors may provide more advantages than ours for the commercialization of PV products, and to the extent we are not able to refine our technologies and develop new PV products, our existing products may become uncompetitive and obsolete. In addition, we will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to maintain our competitiveness and keep pace with technological advances in the PV industry. However, commercial acceptance by customers of new products we offer may not occur at the rate or level expected, and we may not be able to successfully adapt existing products to effectively and economically meet customer demands, thus impairing the return from our investments. We may also be required under the applicable accounting standards to recognize a charge for the impairment of assets to the extent our existing products become uncompetitive or obsolete, or if any new products fail to achieve commercial acceptance. Any such charge may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, in response to the rapidly evolving conditions in the PV industry, we plan to expand our business downstream to provide system integration products and services. This expansion requires significant investment and management attention from us, and we are likely to face intense competition from companies that have extensive experience and well-established businesses and customer bases in the system integration sector. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in expanding our business downstream. If we are not able to bring quality products and services to market in a timely and cost-effective manner and successfully market and sell these products and services, our ability to continue penetrating the PV market, as well as our results of operations and profitability, will be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends in part on our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments and to establish and maintain strategic alliances, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our market penetration, revenue growth and profitability. In addition, such strategic acquisitions, alliances and investments themselves entail significant risks that could materially and adversely affect our business. We entered into the silicon ingot production business through our acquisition of a 52% equity interest in Yangguang Solar, an ingot plant that commenced operations in October 2007 and subsequently entered into a share 13 Table of Contents transfer agreement to acquire the remaining 48% stake in June 2008. In addition, we have purchased and are in the process of installing six wire saws which can be used to slice ingots into wafers. We plan to purchase and install an additional 54 wire saws, the completion of which will increase the annual aggregate manufacturing capacity of wires saws to 300 MW. We expect this new facility to be completed by March 2009. We are also pursuing expansion into downstream system integration services through our subsidiary, Shanghai Linyang, and we are considering pursuing upstream silicon feedstock sourcing through strategic partnerships and investments. We intend to continue to establish and maintain strategic alliances with third parties in the PV industry, particularly with silicon suppliers. These types of transactions could require that our management develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers and may require significant attention from our management, and the diversion of our management’s attention could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. We may also experience difficulties integrating acquisitions and investments into our existing business and operations. Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully make such strategic acquisitions and investments or to establish strategic alliances with third parties that will prove to be effective or beneficial for our business. Any difficulty we face in this regard could have a material adverse effect on our market penetration, our results of operations and our profitability. Strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances with third parties could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information and loss of control of operations that are material to our business. Moreover, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances may be expensive to implement and subject us to the risk of non-performance by a counterparty, which may in turn lead to monetary losses that materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, changes in government policies, both domestically and internationally, that are not favorable to the development of the PV industry, may also have a material adverse effect on the success of our strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. Problems with product quality or product performance could result in a decrease in customers and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. In addition, product liability claims against us could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages. Our PV modules are typically sold with a two to five years limited warranty for technical defects, a 10-year limited warranty against declines greater than 10%, and a 20 to 25-year limited warranty against declines of greater than 20%, in their initial power generation capacity. As a result, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims for an extended period after we have sold our products and recognized revenue. Since our products have been in use for only a relatively short period, our assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our products may not be accurate. We consider various factors when determining the likelihood of product defects, including an evaluation of our quality controls, technical analysis, industry information on comparable companies and our own experience. As of December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, our accrued warranty costs totaled RMB1.5 million, RMB7.6 million and RMB21.0 million (US$2.9 million), respectively. In addition, as we purchase the silicon and silicon wafers and other components that we use in our products from third parties, we have limited control over the quality of these raw materials and components. Unlike PV modules, which are subject to certain uniform international standards, silicon and silicon wafers generally do not have uniform international standards, and it is often difficult to determine whether product defects are a result of the silicon or silicon wafers or other components or reasons. Furthermore, the silicon and silicon wafers and other components that we purchase from third-party suppliers are typically sold to us with no or only limited warranties. The possibility of future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expense to provide refunds or resolve disputes with regard to warranty claims through litigation, arbitration or other means. Product failures and related adverse publicity may also damage our market reputation and cause our sales to decline. As with other PV product manufacturers, we are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims if the use of the PV products we sell results in injury, death or damage to property. We cannot predict at this time whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business. In addition, we have not made provisions for potential product liability claims and we may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment if a successful claim is brought against us. Moreover, the successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments and incur substantial legal expenses. Even if a product liability claim is not 14 Table of Contents successfully pursued to judgment by a claimant, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim. If PV technology is not suitable for widespread adoption, or sufficient demand for PV products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipated, our sales may not continue to increase or may even decline, and our revenue and profitability would be reduced. The PV market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which PV products will be widely adopted is uncertain. Furthermore, market data in the PV industry are not as readily available as those in other more established industries, where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. If PV technology, in particular the type of PV technology that we have adopted, proves unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for PV products fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to grow our business or generate sufficient revenue to sustain our profitability. In addition, demand for PV products in our targeted markets, including China, may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipated. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and demand for PV products, including: • cost-effectiveness of PV products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; • performance and reliability of PV products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; • availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the PV industry or other energy resource industries; • success of other alternative energy generation technologies, such as fuel cells, wind power and biomass; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; • capital expenditures by end users of PV products, which tend to decrease when the overall economy slows down; and • deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry. Existing regulations and policies governing the electricity utility industry, as well as changes to these regulations and policies, may adversely affect demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. The electric utility industry is subject to extensive regulation, and the market for PV products, is heavily influenced by these regulations as well as the policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often affect electricity pricing and technical interconnection of end-user power generation. As the market for solar and other alternative energy sources continue to evolve, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in research and development of, solar and other alternative energy sources may be significantly affected by these regulations and policies, which could significantly reduce demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. Moreover, we expect that our PV products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters in various countries. We also have to comply with the requirements of individual localities and design equipment to comply with varying standards applicable in the jurisdictions where we conduct business. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our PV products may result in significant additional expenses to us, our distributors and end users and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our PV products, as well as materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications could have a materially adverse effect on our business and prospects. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for “on-grid” applications, where solar energy is used to supplement a customer’s electricity purchased from the electric utility, depends in large part on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. As a portion of our sales is in the on-grid market, the reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives may hinder the growth of this market or result in increased price competition, which could decrease demand for our products and reduce our revenue. The cost of solar energy currently substantially exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid in many locations. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain and the United States, have provided subsidies and economic incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of PV products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Certain of these government economic incentives are set to be reduced and may be reduced further, or eliminated. In particular, political changes in a particular country could result in significant reductions or eliminations of subsidies or economic incentives. Electric utility companies that have significant political lobbying powers may also seek changes in the relevant legislation in their markets that may adversely affect the development and commercial acceptance of solar energy. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications, especially those in our target markets, could cause demand for our products and our revenue to decline, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The lack or inaccessibility of financing for off-grid solar energy applications could cause our sales to decline. Our products are used for “off-grid” solar energy applications in developed and developing countries, where solar energy is provided to end users independent of an electricity transmission grid. In some countries, government agencies and the private sector have, from time to time, provided subsidies or financing on preferred terms for rural electrification programs. We believe that the availability of financing could have a significant effect on the level of sales of off-grid solar energy applications, particularly in developing countries where users may not have sufficient resources or credit to otherwise acquire PV systems. If existing financing programs for off-grid solar energy applications are eliminated or if financing becomes inaccessible, the growth of the market for off-grid solar energy applications may be materially and adversely affected, which could cause our sales to decline. In addition, rising interest rates could render existing financings more expensive, as well as serve as an obstacle for potential financings that would otherwise spur the growth of the PV industry. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. Nevertheless, these afford only limited protection and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. In particular, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technologies can be difficult and expensive. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We also cannot assure you that the outcome of any such litigation would be in our favor. Furthermore, any such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend our other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, particularly in jurisdictions outside China which, if determined adversely against us, could disrupt our business and subject us to significant liability to third parties, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use and develop our technologies and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. As we continue to market and sell our products internationally, and as litigation becomes more common in the PRC, we face a higher risk of being the subject of claims for intellectual property infringement, as well as having indemnification relating to other parties’ proprietary rights held to be invalid. Our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have or may obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in the European Union, the PRC or other countries. The validity and scope of claims relating to PV technology patents involve complex, scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. In addition, the defense of intellectual property claims, including patent infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming, and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such litigation or proceeding to which we may become a party could cause us to: • pay damage awards; • seek licenses from third parties; • pay ongoing royalties; • redesign our products; or • be restricted by injunctions, each of which could effectively prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business and result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain sufficient patent protection on the technologies embodied in the PV products we currently manufacture and sell, which could reduce our competitiveness and increase our expenses. Although we rely primarily on trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect the technologies in the PV cells we currently manufacture and sell, our success and ability to compete in the future may also depend to a significant degree on obtaining patent protection for our proprietary technologies. As of June 2, 2008, we had three issued patents and six pending patent applications in the PRC. We do not have, and have not applied for, any patents for our proprietary technologies outside the PRC. As the protections afforded by our patents are effective only in the PRC, our competitors and other companies may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies, and obtain patents for such technologies in other jurisdictions, including the countries in which we sell our products. Moreover, our patent applications in the PRC may not result in issued patents, and even if they do result in issued patents, the patents may not have claims of the scope we seek. In addition, any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable. As a result, our present and future patents may provide only limited protection for our technologies, and may not be sufficient to provide competitive advantages to us. We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of some of our directors and key executives. In particular, we are highly dependent upon our directors and officers, including Mr. Yonghua Lu, chairman of our 17 Table of Contents board of directors, Mr. Henricus Johannes Petrus Hoskens, our chief executive officer, Mr. Hanfei Wang, our director and chief operating officer, and Mr. Yuting Wang, our chief engineer. In 2007, Mr. Fei Yun resigned as director of technology and Mr. Kevin C. Wei, our former chief financial officer, also left us as his employment contract expired in October 2007. If we lose the services of one or more of our current directors and executive officers, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all, with suitable or qualified candidates, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new directors and officers, particularly those with a significant mix of both international and China-based PV industry experience similar to our current directors and officers, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. In addition, if any of our directors or executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Each of these directors and executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any disputes arise between these directors or executive officers and us, it is not clear, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where all of these directors and executive officers reside and hold some of their assets. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us.” Furthermore, as we expect to continue to expand our operations and develop new products, we will need to continue attracting and retaining experienced management and key research and development personnel. Competition for personnel in the PV industry in China is intense, and the availability of suitable and qualified candidates is limited. In particular, we compete to attract and retain qualified research and development personnel with other PV technology companies, universities and research institutions. Competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also be unable to attract or retain the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives, and any failure in this regard could severely disrupt our business and growth. Our recent changes in chief executive officer and chief financial officer and resignation of our principal accounting officer may have an adverse effect on the overall operations of our company and the functioning of our financial controls and reporting. We recently appointed Mr. Henricus Johannes Petrus Hoskens as our new chief executive officer. His tenure commenced on February 25, 2008 and Mr. Yonghua Lu resigned as our chief executive officer as of the same date. Although Mr. Lu continues to serve as our chairman and remains actively involved in our business focusing on various areas of strategic importance in our company, the transition period for our chief executive officer may not be smooth and there may be an adverse effect on our overall operations. In addition, we appointed Ms. Amy Jing Liu to be our chief financial officer in October 2007, replacing Mr. Kevin C. Wei, whose employment contract expired on October 31, 2007. Ms. Ru Cai, our former principal accounting officer, also resigned in 2007. Although there was an overlap of almost two weeks between the end of Mr. Wei’s tenure at our company and Ms. Liu’s appointment and we have hired additional financial officers during the past few months, there may be an adverse effect on the functioning of our financial controls and reporting as a result of this change in management. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the market price of our ADSs. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Our management and independent registered public accounting firm have concluded that our internal controls as of December 31, 2007 were effective. However, we cannot assure you that in the future our management or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify material weakness during the Section 404 of the 18 Table of Contents Sarbanes-Oxley Act audit process or for other reasons. In addition, because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result, if we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting or should we be unable to prevent or detect material misstatements due to error or fraud on a timely basis, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business, results of operations and negatively impact the market price of our ADSs, and harm our reputation. Furthermore, we have incurred and expected to continue to incur considerable costs and to use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have limited insurance coverage and we are subject to the risk of damage due to fires or explosions because some materials we use in our manufacturing processes are highly flammable. We are subject to risk of explosion and fires, as highly flammable gases, such as silane and nitrogen gas, are generated in our manufacturing processes. While we have not experienced to date any explosion or fire, the risks associated with these gases cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, as the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, business interruption insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries. Although we have obtained business interruption insurance, any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We are also exposed to risks associated with product liability claims in the event that the use of the PV products we sell results in injury. Due to limited historical experience, we are unable to predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. Moreover, we only have limited product liability insurance and may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any environmental claims or failure to comply with any present or future environmental regulations may require us to spend additional funds and may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of chemical by-products of, and water used in, our manufacturing operations and research and development activities, including toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes. We are in compliance with current environmental regulations to conduct our business as it is presently conducted. Although we have not suffered material environmental claims in the past, the failure to comply with any present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production or a cessation of our operations. New regulations could also require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspension of our business, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. The use of certain hazardous substances, such as lead, in various products is also coming under increasingly stringent governmental regulation. Increased environmental regulation in this area could adversely impact the manufacture and sale of solar modules that contain lead and could require us to make unanticipated environmental expenditures. For example, the European Union Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or the WEEE Directive, requires manufacturers of certain electrical and electronic equipment to be financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of specified products placed on the market in the European Union. In addition, European Union Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the use of Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment, or the RoHS Directive, restricts the use of certain hazardous substances, including lead, in specified products. Other jurisdictions are considering adopting similar legislation. Currently, we are not required under the WEEE or RoHS Directives to collect, recycle or dispose any of our products. However, the Directives allow for future amendments subjecting additional products to the Directives’ requirements. If, in the future, our solar modules become subject to such requirements, we may be required to apply 19 Table of Contents for an exemption. If we were unable to obtain an exemption, we would be required to redesign our solar modules in order to continue to offer them for sale within the European Union, which would be impractical. Failure to comply with the Directives could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the inability to sell our solar modules in the European Union, competitive disadvantages and loss of net sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business benefits from certain PRC government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In accordance with the former PRC Income Tax Law for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises, or the FIE Tax Law and the related implementing rules, Jiangsu Linyang Solarfun Co., Ltd., or Linyang China, our wholly-owned operating subsidiary in China, was exempted from enterprise income tax in 2005 and 2006, was taxed at a reduced rate of 12% in 2007, and would be taxed at the reduced rate of 12% in 2008 and 2009. From 2005 until the end of 2009, Linyang China would also be exempted from the 3% local income tax. Furthermore, Linyang China would be entitled to a two-year income tax exemption for 2006 and 2007 and a reduced tax rate of 12% for the following three years on income generated from additional investment in the production capacity of Linyang China resulting from our contribution to Linyang China of the funds we received through the issuances of our series A convertible preference shares in June and August 2006. On March 16, 2007, the PRC government promulgated Law of the People’s Republic of China on Enterprise Income Tax (“EITw”), which will be effective from January 1, 2008. Under EIT, domestically-owned enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises (“FIE”) are subject to a uniform tax rate of 25%. While the EIT equalizes the tax rates for FIE and domestically-owned enterprises, preferential tax treatment (e.g. tax rate of 15%) would continue to be given to companies in certain encouraged sectors and to entities classified as high-technology companies, whether domestically-owned enterprises or FIE. The New Tax Law also provides a five-year transition period starting from its effective date for those enterprises which were established before the promulgation date of the EIT and which were entitled to a preferential lower tax rate or tax holiday under the then effective tax laws or regulations. The tax rate of such enterprises will transition to the uniform tax rate within a five-year transition period and the tax holiday, which has been enjoyed by such enterprises before the effective date of the New Tax Law, may continue to be enjoyed until the end of the holiday. Linyang China has filed its application to be qualified as a high-technology company which is pending governmental approval. Under the EIT Law, we may be classified as a “Resident Enterprise” of the PRC. Such classification would likely result in negative tax consequences to us and could result in negative tax consequences to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders and ADS holders. Under the EIT Law, which took effect as of January 1, 2008, enterprises established under the laws of non-PRC jurisdictions but whose “de facto management body” is located in the PRC are considered “resident enterprises” for PRC tax purposes and are subject to the EIT Law. According to the Implementation Regulations for the EIT Law of the PRC issued by the State Council on December 6, 2007, de facto management body is defined as an establishment that exerts substantial and comprehensive management and control over the business operations, staff, accounting, assets and other aspects of the enterprise. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income are derived from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. If we are treated as a “resident enterprise” for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC income tax on our worldwide income at a uniform tax rate of 25%, excluding the dividend income we receive from our PRC subsidiaries which has been subject to the PRC income tax already. 20 Table of Contents In addition, although the EIT Law provides that dividend income between qualified “resident enterprises” is exempted from the 10% withholding tax on dividends paid to non-PRC enterprise shareholders, it is still not free of doubt whether we will be considered to be a qualified “resident enterprise” under the EIT Law. If we are considered a “non-resident enterprise,” dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in the PRC (through our holding company structure) may be subject to the 10% withholding tax. If we are deemed by the PRC tax authorities as a “resident enterprise” and declare dividends, under the existing implementation rules of the EIT Law, dividends paid by us to our non-PRC enterprise and individual shareholders, excluding the non-PRC ADS holders, may be subject to the 10% withholding tax. However, if we are deemed as “non-resident enterprise,” dividends paid by us to our non-PRC enterprise and individual shareholders and ADS holders should not be deemed to be derived from sources within the PRC under the EIT Law and therefore should not be subject to the 10% withholding tax. However, what will constitute income derived from sources within the PRC is currently unclear. In addition, capital gains on the disposition of shares or ADSs are currently not subject to PRC tax. However, these conclusions are not entirely free from doubt. In addition, it is possible that these rules may change in the future, possibly with retroactive effect. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business as well as result in foreign currency exchange losses. Our financial statements are expressed in, and our functional currency is Renminbi. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in a more than 17.1% appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. The PRC government may decide to adopt an even more flexible currency policy in the future, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. An appreciation of the Renminbi relative to other foreign currencies could decrease the per unit revenue generated from our international sales. If we increased our pricing to compensate for the reduced purchasing power of foreign currencies, we may decrease the market competitiveness, on a price basis, of our products. This could result in a decrease in our international sales and materially and adversely affect our business. A substantial portion of our sales is denominated in U.S. dollars and Euros, while a substantial portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi. As a result, the revaluation of the Renminbi in July 2005 has increased, and further revaluations could further increase, our costs. In addition, as we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by Linyang China, our operating subsidiary in the PRC, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms will also be affected. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, an appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly among the U.S. dollar, Renminbi and Euro, also affect our gross and net profit margins and could result in fluctuations in foreign exchange and operating gains and losses. We incurred net foreign currency losses of RMB1.8 million, RMB4.3 million and RMB25.6 million (US$3.5 million) in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our financial condition and results of operations, and we may incur net foreign currency losses in the future. Very limited hedging transactions are available in the PRC to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. 21 Table of Contents Two of our existing shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. As of June 2, 2008, Mr. Yonghua Lu, chairman of our board of directors, and Good Energies II LP owned 15.95% and 36.39%, respectively, of our outstanding share capital. In December 2007, Mr. Yonghua Lu transferred 38,634,750 ordinary shares beneficially owned by him to Good Energies II LP acting by its general partner Good Energies General Partner Jersey Limited. Mr. Lu and Good Energies II LP have substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. If we grant employee share options and other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be adversely affected. We adopted a share option plan for our employees in November 2006, pursuant to which we may issue options to purchase up to 10,799,685 ordinary shares. As of December 31, 2007, options to purchase 8,105,500 ordinary shares had been granted under this plan. In August 2007, we adopted our 2007 equity incentive plan. The 2007 equity incentive plan permits the grant of incentive stock options, non-statutory stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units, performance units, performance shares, and other equity based awards to employees, directors and consultants of our company. Under the 2007 equity incentive plan, we may issue up to 10,799,685 ordinary shares plus an annual increase of 2% of the outstanding ordinary shares on the first day of the fiscal year, or such lesser amount of shares as determined by the board of directors. As a result of these option grants and potential future grants under these plans, we expect to incur significant share compensation expenses in future periods. The amount of these expenses will be based on the fair value of the share-based awards. Fair value is determined based on an independent third party valuation. We have adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123(R) (revised 2004) for the accounting treatment of our share incentive plan. As a result, we will have to account for compensation costs for all share options, including share options granted to our directors and employees, using a fair-value based method and recognize expenses in our consolidated statement of income in accordance with the relevant rules under U.S. GAAP, which may have a material adverse effect on our net profit. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of such incentive plan to us. However, our share incentive plan and other similar types of incentive plans are important in order to attract and retain key personnel. We cannot assure you that employee share options or other share-based compensation we may grant in the future, would not have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and some of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the amount of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. 22 Table of Contents While the PRC economy has grown significantly over the past 25 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth of the PRC economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by solar energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of renewable energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. In particular, the PRC government has, in recent years, promulgated certain laws and regulations and initiated certain government-sponsored programs to encourage the utilization of new forms of energy, including solar energy. We cannot assure you that the implementation of these laws, regulations and government programs will be beneficial to us. In particular, any adverse change in the PRC government’s policies towards the PV industry may have a material adverse effect on our operations as well as on our plans to expand our business into downstream system integration services. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiary in the PRC, Linyang China, a Chinese wholly foreign-owned enterprise. Linyang China is generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary to fund cash and financing requirements, and limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends or other distributions to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiary, Linyang China, which is a limited liability company established in China. We rely on dividends paid by Linyang China for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. In particular, regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Linyang China is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, Linyang China is required to 23 Table of Contents allocate a portion of its after-tax profit to its staff welfare and bonus fund at the discretion of its board of directors. Moreover, if Linyang China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue effectively. A portion of our revenue and a substantial portion of our expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, Linyang China may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by Linyang China under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC governmental authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if Linyang China borrows foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance Linyang China by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, the Ministry of Commerce or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of Linyang China to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, or the SAFE notice, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising fund from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC shareholder of any offshore special purpose company fails to make the required SAFE registration and amendment, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore special purpose company. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC residents have registered with the local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE notice. The failure of these beneficial owners to amend their SAFE registrations in a timely manner pursuant to the SAFE notice or the failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE notice may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also result in a restriction on our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, the NDRC promulgated a rule in October 2004, or the NDRC Rule, which requires NDRC approvals for overseas investment projects made by PRC entities. The NDRC Rule also provides that approval procedures for overseas investment projects of PRC individuals shall be implemented with reference to this rule. However, there exist extensive uncertainties in terms of interpretation of the NDRC Rule with respect to its application to a PRC individual’s overseas investment, and in practice, we are not aware of any precedents that a PRC individual’s overseas investment has been approved by the NDRC or challenged by the NDRC based on the absence of NDRC approval. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC individuals did 24 Table of Contents not apply for NDRC approval for investment in us. We cannot predict how and to what extent this will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, the failure of our shareholders who are PRC individuals to comply with the NDRC Rule may subject these persons or our PRC subsidiary to certain liabilities under PRC laws, which could adversely affect our business. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Adverse public health epidemics or pandemics could disrupt business and the economics of the PRC and other countries where we do business. From December 2002 to June 2003, China and other countries experienced an outbreak of a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that the SARS outbreak had been contained. However, a number of isolated new cases of SARS were subsequently reported, most recently in central China in April 2004. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. Moreover, some Asian countries, including China, have recently encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that avian flu may have on our business. In particular, any future outbreak of SARS, avian flu or other similar adverse public developments may, among other things, significantly disrupt our business, including limiting our ability to travel or ship our products within or outside China and forcing us to temporary close our manufacturing facilities. Furthermore, an outbreak may severely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price of our ADSs experienced, and may continue to experience, significant volatility. For the period from December 20, 2006 to June 18, 2008, the trading price of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market has ranged from a low of US$8.22 per ADS to a high of US$37.85 per ADS. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our ADSs, including, among other things: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the conversion efficiencies of our products or those of our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates or other material comments by securities analysts relating to us, our competitors or our industry in general; • announcements by other companies in our industry relating to their operations, strategic initiatives, financial condition or financial performance or to our industry in general; • announcements of acquisitions or consolidations involving industry competitors or industry suppliers; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other PV technology companies; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. 25 Table of Contents Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of June 2, 2008, we had 241,954,744 ordinary shares outstanding, including 90,186,990 ordinary shares represented by 18,037,398 ADSs. All ADSs are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The remaining ordinary shares outstanding will be available for sale and, in the case of the ordinary shares that certain option holders will receive when they exercise their share options, until the later of (i) the first anniversary of the grant date, and (ii) the expiration of any relevant lock-up periods, subject to volume and other restrictions that may be applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our amended and restated articles of association limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise, provided that, where any issue of shares is proposed and such shares proposed to be issued are equal to or exceed 20% by par value of the par value of all then issued shares (including ordinary shares and any preferred shares and, in the case of any preferred shares, where appropriate whether considering such preferred shares before or after any conversion of such preferred shares to ordinary shares in accordance with their terms), then the prior approval by ordinary resolution of the holders of the ordinary shares, voting together as one class, shall be required. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights as our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our amended and restated articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene an annual general meeting or any extraordinary general meeting calling for the passing of a special resolution is 20 days and the minimum notice period required to convene any other extraordinary general meeting is 14 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. If requested in writing by us, the depositary will mail a notice of such a meeting to you. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but you may not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. 26 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings, and you may not receive distributions with respect to the underlying ordinary shares if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, in the event we conduct any rights offering in the future, the depositary may not make such rights available to you or may dispose of such rights and make the net proceeds available to you. As a result, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. As a result, the depositary may decide not to make the distribution and you will not receive such distribution. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. 27 Table of Contents There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. 