ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks as well as other risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cause the value of our stock to decline. Such risk and uncertainties should be considered when evaluating our business and us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware, or that are currently deemed immaterial by us, also may become important factors that affect us. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may continue to incur losses in the future. We have never been profitable and have incurred losses since our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005, and 2006, we incurred net losses of approximately $13.5 million, $11.3 million and $11.7 million, respectively. Until 2003, we did not generate cash from operations. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $215.0 million. There can be no guarantee that we will achieve profitability. Even if we achieve profitability, given the competitive and evolving nature of the industry in which we operate, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our operating results have fluctuated historically and could continue to fluctuate in the future which could affect our ability to maintain our current market position or expand. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • changes in general economic conditions and specific market conditions in the telecommunications and Internet-related industries; • demand for interconnection and colocation services at our facilities; • competition from other suppliers of the services we offer; • the timing and magnitude of operating expenses, capital expenditures and expenses related to the expansion of sales, marketing and operations, including as a result of acquisitions, if any; • the cost and availability of power and cooling capacity; • our closing of existing facilities or our acquisition of additional facilities; • the mix of our current services; and • the financial condition and credit risk of our customers. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we have experienced growth in revenues in recent quarters, this growth rate is not 11 Table of Contents necessarily indicative of future operating results. A relatively large portion of our expenses are fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to lease and personnel expenses, depreciation and amortization expenses, and interest expense. Therefore, our results of operations are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenues. As such, comparisons to prior periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. Our ability to maximize the utilization of our facilities is limited by the availability and cost of sufficient electrical power and cooling capacity. The availability of an adequate supply of electrical power and cooling capacity, and the infrastructure to deliver that power and cooling, is critical to our ability to provide our services. Even though physical space may be available in a facility, the demand for electrical power may exceed our designed capacity. We may be unable to meet the increasing power and cooling needs of our customers if our customer mix does not match our expectations or our customers further increase their use of high density electrical power equipment, such as blade servers. In addition, the amount of saleable space within our facilities is reduced to the extent that we house generators and batteries to provide back-up power. Further, certain of the leases for our facilities also contain provisions that limit the supply of electrical power and cooling capacity to such facilities, as a result of which our ability to reach full utilization may be constrained in these facilities. If the availability of power limits our ability to fully utilize the space within our facilities, we may be unable to accept new customers at our facilities and our revenue growth will decline or we may incur additional costs to increase the power supply or acquire space at an additional facility. The high utilization of our facilities may limit our ability to grow in certain key markets, and we may be unable to expand our existing facilities or locate and secure suitable sites for additional facilities. Our facilities have reached high rates of utilization in many of our key markets. Our ability to meet the growing needs of our existing customers and to attract new customers in these key markets depends on our ability to add additional capacity by incrementally expanding our existing facilities or by locating and securing additional facilities in these markets that meet specific infrastructure requirements such as access to multiple telecommunications carriers, a significant supply of electrical power, high ceilings and the ability to sustain heavy floor loading. In many markets, the supply of facilities with these characteristics is limited and subject to high demand. If we are unable to expand our capacity in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We are continuing to invest in our expansion efforts but we may not experience sufficient customer demand in the future to realize expected returns on these investments. We are considering the acquisition or lease of additional properties, including the construction of new facilities. We would be required to commit substantial operational and financial resources to these facilities, generally up to 18 months in advance of securing customer contracts, and we may not experience sufficient customer demand in those markets to support these facilities once they are built. In addition, unanticipated technological changes could affect customer requirements and we may not have built such requirements into our new facilities. Any of these contingencies, if they were to occur, could make it difficult for us to realize expected or reasonable returns on these investments and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We do not own the buildings in which our facilities are located. Instead, we have chosen to lease our facility space, and the non-renewal of leases poses significant risk to our ongoing operations. We would incur significant costs if we were forced to vacate one of our facilities due to the high costs of relocating the equipment in our facilities and installing the necessary infrastructure in a new facility. In addition, if we were forced to vacate a facility, we could lose customers that chose our services based on our location. Our landlords could attempt to evict us for reasons beyond our control. Further, we may be unable to maintain good 12 Table of Contents working relationships with our landlords, which would adversely affect our customer service and could result in the loss of current customers. In addition, our business would be harmed by our inability to renew leases at favorable terms. Most of our leases provide two five-year renewal options with rent set at then-prevailing market rates. We expect that the then-prevailing market rates will be higher than present rates. To maintain the operating profitability associated with our present cost structure, we must increase revenues within existing facilities to offset the anticipated increase in lease payments at the end of the original and renewal terms. Failure to increase revenue sufficiently to offset these projected higher costs would adversely impact our operating income. Additionally, ten of our leases do not contain renewal options. Renewing these leases at favorable terms will be critical to continuing those operations in the Los Angeles, Atlanta, New York, Philadelphia and Seattle markets. Even those leases which contain renewal options do not ensure long-term operations at those facilities. If our contracts with our customers are not renewed or are terminated, our business could be substantially harmed. Our customer contracts for space and power typically have terms of one to three years. Interconnection services are typically provided either on a month-to-month basis or over a one year term. Our customers may not elect to renew these contracts. Furthermore, our customer contracts are terminable for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract, including the failure to provide power or connectivity for extended periods of time, or violate applicable laws or regulations. We may face increased competition and pricing pressure as our customer contracts become subject to renewal. Our customers may negotiate renewal of their contracts at lower rates, for fewer services or for shorter terms. If we are unable to successfully renew our customer contracts on their current terms, or if our customer contracts are terminated, our business could suffer. Certain of our stockholders have sued us demanding appraisal rights in connection with our corporate reorganization; and we may face additional litigation with certain of our stockholders. Two of our predecessor’s stockholders filed a lawsuit against us in a Delaware state court on January 29, 2007. This lawsuit seeks a declaratory judgment that those of our predecessor’s stockholders who did not sign our predecessor’s fourth amended and restated investors agreement are entitled to appraisal rights with respect to the merger that was part of our corporate reorganization. It also sought a preliminary injunction against our corporate reorganization and our initial public offering until the appraisal rights issue was resolved. The plaintiffs sought expedited proceedings to present their request for the preliminary injunction. On February 2, 2007, the Delaware court denied the plaintiff’s motion for expedited proceedings. This denial was based upon our agreement that the plaintiffs, and any other holder of our predecessor’s capital stock who has not signed our predecessor’s fourth amended and restated investors agreement, may participate in the offering as a selling stockholder and not waive any right to an appraisal remedy (if any such right exists), even if such stockholder has previously consented in writing to the corporate reorganization. Although the motion to expedite has been denied, thereby mooting the motion for preliminary injunction, the lawsuit remains outstanding. The Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”) provides that stockholders have the right to seek an appraisal of their stock in connection with certain mergers. After our corporate reorganization merger, certain of our stockholders, along with one individual who was a stockholder of our predecessor but does not own any of our stock, have notified us of their intent to exercise their appraisal rights. Collectively, these stockholders held (i) 6,014,625 shares of our predecessor’s common stock (or, approximately 14.2% of such class); (ii) 3,209,134 shares of our predecessor’s Series B Common Stock (or, approximately 4.9% of such class); (iii) 72,073 of our predecessor’s Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (or, approximately 0.3% of such class); (iv) 1,604,567 shares of our predecessor’s Series C Redeemable Preferred Stock (or, approximately 4.9% of such class); and (v) 1,640 shares of our predecessor’s Series D-1 Preferred Stock (or, approximately 0.5% of such class). These shares will 13 Table of Contents convert into a total of 212,821 shares of our common stock if all of the approval demands are withdrawn in accordance with the DGCL or the Chancery Court determines that all of the stockholders seeking appraisal have waived their appraisal rights or otherwise are not legally entitled to appraisal. Our predecessor’s fourth amended and restated investors agreement contained a waiver of appraisal rights in connection with a corporate reorganization. Although we intend to vigorously contest the Delaware lawsuit, we cannot assure you how the Delaware court will rule on the validity of such waivers. To the extent that certain holders of our predecessor’s stock that have notified us of their intent to exercise appraisal rights satisfy the remaining requirements of the DGCL for assertion of such rights, and it is determined that such holders have not waived their appraisal rights, such holders would be entitled to receive payment equal to the fair value of their stock determined in accordance with the DGCL. We cannot assure you how the Delaware court will determine the fair value of our predecessor’s stock, and the values determined in an appraisal proceeding could result in substantial liabilities. If the fair value were determined to be equal to the initial public offering per share, the fair value of all of the stock of all of the holders that have or may have appraisal rights would be approximately $3.6 million. Our actual exposure could be more or less than that amount if appraisal rights are deemed applicable, because the Chancery Court would not be bound by our initial public offering price. Our predecessor’s capital needs necessitated a number of rounds of financing and the terms and conditions of such financing varied. The later rounds of financing generally contained more favorable terms for the investors than the earlier rounds. Although many of our predecessor’s stockholders held multiple classes of stock, a number held few or none of the classes that were issued in the later rounds. Pursuant to our predecessor’s fourth amended and restated investors agreement between our predecessor and virtually all of its stockholders and under our predecessor’s certificate of incorporation, a formula was set forth establishing the amount of shares of common stock that the holders of each class of securities in our predecessor would receive in connection with our corporate reorganization. The result of the application of this formula is that holders of our predecessor’s Common Stock, Series B Common Stock and Series A, B and C Special Junior Stock did not receive any of our common stock or any other consideration in connection with our corporate reorganization and holders of our predecessor’s Series B Convertible Preferred Stock will receive less than their original investment in us. Although we intend to vigorously oppose any litigation claims that may be raised, there is no assurance that we will prevail. If we do not prevail, the damages awarded and our other costs and expenses could be material. Our credit facilities limit our ability to make payments in respect of our equity interests, including appraisal payments. If we are required to make such payments we would need to seek an amendment or waiver of our credit facilities. Failure to obtain an amendment or waiver could result in the acceleration of outstanding indebtedness under the credit facilities. The cost of any appraisal proceedings or payments, as well as the inability to borrow under, or the acceleration of, our credit facilities, could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Even if we prevail, the distraction of management could result in a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations, and we could incur substantial legal expenses. We have been sued by several landlords for breaches of our lease agreements. An adverse determination in any of these proceedings could result in significant liabilities. We have three ongoing cases with respect to disputes arising out of alleged breaches of our abandoned lease agreements. One of these is a suit filed in West Palm Beach, Florida in May 2002, in which the plaintiff is seeking damages of approximately $29.7 million, consisting of alleged lost rents, lost profits, lost business opportunities, transaction costs relating to our alleged forced sale and attorneys fees. In a suit filed in Milwaukee, Wisconsin in May 2006, the plaintiff is seeking damages of $4.6 million consisting of alleged lost rents, losses on the sale of the building and attorneys fees. The third suit was filed in New Orleans, Louisiana in October 2001, involves a plaintiff that is seeking damages of approximately $3.6 million consisting of alleged lost rent, restorative expenses and lease commission. In the past, we have experienced adverse outcomes in litigation proceedings arising out of similar facts, and we have settled similar disputes for significant sums. The potential liabilities resulting from these claims may not be covered by our insurance policies or may be disputed by our insurers. Moreover, even if the claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, the cost of defending these suits may result in a material adverse effect on our liquidity. 14 Table of Contents Any failure of our physical infrastructure or services could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenues, harm our business reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our business depends on providing customers with highly reliable service. The services we provide are subject to failure resulting from numerous factors, including: • human error; • power loss; • improper building maintenance by the landlords of the buildings in which our facilities are located; • physical or electronic security breaches; • fire, earthquake, hurricane, flood and other natural disasters; • water damage; • the effect of war, terrorism and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide; and • sabotage and vandalism. Problems at one or more of our facilities, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions or equipment damage. We have service level commitment obligations to substantially all of our customers. As a result, service interruptions or equipment damage in our facilities could result in credits for service interruptions to these customers. We have at times in the past given credits to our customers as a result of service interruptions due to equipment failures. We cannot assure that our customers will accept these credits as compensation in the future. Also, service interruptions and equipment failures may expose us to additional legal liability and impair our brand image. We depend on our landlords and other third-party providers to properly maintain the buildings in which our facilities are located. Improper maintenance by such landlords and third parties increase the risk of service interruptions and equipment damage. Additionally, certain of our facilities, including those in California, Florida and the Pacific Northwest, are located in areas particularly susceptible to natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes and tornadoes. The occurrence of any natural disaster could shut down one or more of our facilities and result in a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. Moreover, we may not have adequate property or liability insurance to cover catastrophic events. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. We compete with network neutral interconnection and colocation service providers and other telecommunications service providers, including U.S.-based telecommunications carriers and Internet service providers, managed service providers and web hosting companies. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us, and some have a greater presence in our markets and in other markets across the United States and around the world. Because of their greater financial resources, some of our competitors have the ability to adopt aggressive pricing policies. As a result, we may suffer from pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, certain of these competitors currently offer network neutral interconnection and colocation services in the same markets where we have facilities, and other competitors may start doing so in the future. Some of these competitors may also provide our current and potential customers with additional benefits, including one-stop shopping options through bundled interconnection and colocation services, and may do so in a manner that is more attractive to our potential customers than our services. These competitors may be able to provide bundled interconnection and colocation services at prices lower than our cost structure allows. If, as a result of such efficiencies, these competitors are able to adopt aggressive pricing policies for interconnection and colocation services, our ability to generate revenues would be materially and adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents In addition, our competitors may operate more successfully or form alliances to acquire significant market share. Once businesses locate their networking and computing equipment in competitors’ facilities, it may be extremely difficult to convince them to relocate to our facilities. Furthermore, a business that has already invested substantial resources in such arrangements may be reluctant or slow to replace, or limit its existing services by becoming our customer. Finally, we may also experience competition from our landlords. Rather than leasing available space in our buildings to us or other large single tenants, they may decide to convert the space instead to smaller units designed for multi-tenant interconnection and colocation use. Landlords may enjoy a cost advantage in providing services similar to those provided by us, and this could also reduce the amount of space available to us for expansion in the future. If we fail to differentiate our facilities and services from the services provided by our current or future competitors, we may not be able to compete successfully. Our failure to meet performance standards under our service level agreements could result in our customers terminating their relationship with us and the damage to our reputation could limit our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. We have service level agreements with substantially all of our customers in which we provide various guarantees regarding our levels of service. We may have difficulty meeting these levels of service if we experience service interruptions. If we fail to provide the levels of service required by these agreements, our customers may be able to receive service credits for their accounts or terminate their relationship with us. In addition, our inability to meet our service level commitments may damage our reputation and could consequently limit our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and negatively impact our operating results. We have issued credits to customers on several occasions in the past due to our failure to meet our service level commitments, and we may do so in the future. We cannot assure that our customers will accept these credits as compensation in the future. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers for power and certain other services, and we are vulnerable to service failures of our third-party suppliers and to price increases by such suppliers. We generally do not control the amount of power our customers draw from their installed circuits. We rely on third parties to provide power, and we cannot ensure that these third parties will deliver such power in adequate quantities or on a consistent basis. If the amount of power available to us is inadequate to support our customer requirements or delivery of power does not occur in a timely manner, we may be unable to provide our services to our customers and our operating results and cash flow may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our facilities are susceptible to power shortages and planned or unplanned power outages caused by these shortages such as those that occurred in California during 2001, in New York City and the Northeast in 2003 and in Miami in 2005. The overall power shortages in California, where three of our facilities, including our Palo Alto facility, are located, have increased the cost of energy, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. We also believe that the Northeast remains particularly vulnerable to power shortages. We attempt to limit exposure to power shortages by using backup generators and batteries. Power outages, which may last beyond our backup and alternative power arrangements, would harm our customers and our business. In the past, a limited number of our customers have experienced temporary losses of power. We could incur financial obligations or be subject to lawsuits by our customers in connection with a loss of power. In addition, any loss of services or equipment damage could reduce the confidence of our customers in our services and could consequently impair our ability to attract and retain customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our operating results. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers for the resale of Internet access and other services, and we have no control over the quality and reliability of the services provided by these suppliers. In the past, some of 16 Table of Contents these providers have experienced significant system failures. Users of our services may in the future experience difficulties due to service failures unrelated to our systems and services. If for any reason these suppliers fail to provide certain services to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend upon a limited number of network service provider customers in certain of our facilities, and the loss of one or more of these customers in those facilities could adversely affect business. Because we do not own or operate our own network, we depend upon network service providers to colocate and/or interconnect as customers in our facilities and contribute to the network density that attracts our other customers. In several of our smaller markets we have agreements with only a limited number of network service providers. In these small market facilities, we expect that we will continue to rely upon a smaller number of network service provider customers to maintain network density within those facilities. Our agreements with these network service providers will expire over a one to three year period if not renewed. A loss of one or more of these customers could have a material and adverse effect on the operations of one or more of our facilities. Our ability to grow depends on a diverse customer base, and our failure to develop and maintain a diverse customer base could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to develop and maintain a diverse customer base, consisting of a variety of businesses, including telecommunications carriers, Internet service providers and enterprises. We believe creating a diverse customer base in each facility will generate incremental interconnection revenues in the long-term and increase our overall revenues. Our ability to attract and retain these customers will depend on a variety of factors, including the presence of multiple telecommunications carriers in our facilities, the mix of services offered by us, our overall customer mix, the operating reliability and security of our facilities and our ability to market our services effectively across different customer segments. If we fail to develop and maintain a diverse customer base, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We intend to make future acquisitions, which pose integration and other risks that could harm our business. Since March 2004, we have made the following four acquisitions: the acquisition of the stock of the Meridian Telesis in January 2004; the acquisition of the stock of the RACO Group in March 2004; the acquisition of the limited partnership interests of the Site II partnership in 2004; and the acquisition of the stock of LayerOne Holdings in January 2005. We may acquire complementary businesses, product or service lines and technologies in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate our acquisitions. To finance these acquisitions, we may incur additional debt and issue additional shares of our stock, which will dilute existing stockholders’ ownership interests in us and may adversely affect our business and operations. Specific challenges we have encountered in our prior acquisitions include the following: • unexpected additional capital expenditures to improve the condition of the acquired equipment so as to achieve the desired level of quality of service; • additional capital expenditures because of less product availability than expected; • loss of customers; and • difficulties in maintaining uniform procedures, policies and controls. Future acquisitions may expose us to the challenges set forth above and other risks such as: • the diversion of senior management’s attention from daily operations to the negotiation of transactions and integration of the acquired businesses, product or service lines and technologies; 17 Table of Contents • the inability to achieve projected synergies; • the possible loss or reduction in value of acquired businesses; • the possible loss of key personnel; and • the assumption of undisclosed liabilities. The failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses, operations or technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Successful integration will depend on our ability to manage acquired operations, realize revenue growth from an expanded customer base and eliminate duplicative and excess costs, among other factors. Our costs will increase significantly as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to complying with public company regulations. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as recent rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including changes in corporate governance practices, and these requirements will continue to evolve. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to comply with these evolving requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations relating to public companies will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain and periodically evaluate our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge to satisfy the ongoing requirements of Section 404. Failure to design, implement and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As a public company, we will have significant requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations on a timely basis, result in material misstatements in our financial statements and harm our operating results. In addition, we will be required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors that both addresses management’s assessments and our internal controls. We must complete our first Section 404 annual management report as of December 31, 2007, and our auditor must complete its first attestation report as of December 31, 2008 and we must include these reports in our 2007 and 2008 Form 10-Ks (to be filed in early 2008 and 2009, respectively). As described above, during the course of our internal control testing, we identified deficiencies and we may discover additional deficiencies, which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet our deadline for compliance with Section 404. Testing and maintaining internal controls may divert our management’s attention 18 Table of Contents from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or our independent auditors may not issue a favorable assessment. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or their effect on our operations. If either we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting or our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Our services have a long sales cycle that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A customer’s decision to license rack, cabinet or cage space in one of our facilities and to purchase interconnection services typically involves a significant commitment of our time and resources. Many customers are reluctant to commit to purchasing our interconnection and colocation services until they are confident that our facility has adequate available carrier connections and network density. As a result, we experience a long sales cycle for our services. Furthermore, we may expend significant time and resources in pursuing a particular sale or customer that does not generate revenue. Delays due to the length of our sales cycle or costs incurred that do not result in sales may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success largely depends upon retaining the services of our management team. We are highly dependent on our management team. We expect that our continued success will largely depend upon the efforts and abilities of members of our management team. The loss of services of any key executive for any reason could have a material adverse effect upon us. Our success also depends upon our ability to identify, develop and retain qualified employees. The loss of some of our management and other employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our brand is not as well known as that of some of our competitors. Failure to develop and maintain brand recognition could harm our ability to compete effectively. Many of our competitors are large telecommunications service providers that promote their brands with significantly larger budgets than we have for brand promotion. If we fail to develop and maintain brand recognition through sales and marketing efforts and a reputation for high quality service, we may be unable to attract new customers and risk losing existing customers to competitors with better known brands. We have not been successful in attracting customers in several regional markets. We have closed several facilities and our failure to attract sufficient customers in our remaining regional markets could cause us to close one or more of our facilities and lose prospective customers and may adversely affect our business. We maintain a presence in select regional markets across the U.S. and, in several of those markets, we have not been successful in attracting customers to our facilities. We have also exited certain markets. In connection with our exit from these markets and in other markets, we have taken significant asset impairment and discontinuation charges. We presently intend to exit the Kansas City market within the next 9 months. We are also currently considering exiting another market which currently represents less than 1% of our revenues. We have debt obligations which include restrictive covenants that limit our flexibility to manage our business; failure to comply with these covenants could trigger an acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, outstanding indebtedness under our credit facilities totaled approximately $144.2 million. After applying proceeds from our initial public offering, outstanding indebtedness under our credit facilities is approximately $40 million. Our credit facilities require that we maintain specific financial 19 Table of Contents ratios and comply with covenants, including various financial covenants, which contain numerous restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt, pay dividends or make other restricted payments, sell assets, enter into affiliate transactions and take other actions. If we are unable to meet the terms of the financial covenants or if we breach any of these covenants, a default could result under one or more of these agreements. We have in the past violated certain covenants under our credit facilities, including several violations during 2006 that were subsequently waived by our lenders pursuant to an amendment to the credit facilities. A default, if not waived by our lenders, could result in the acceleration of outstanding indebtedness and cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash available to repay our debt obligations when they become due and payable, we will have to refinance such obligations, or otherwise we will not be able to repay our debt. If new financing is made available, its terms may not be favorable to us and our business may be adversely affected. Our authorized but unissued common stock and preferred stock may prevent a change in our control. Our amended certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board may establish a series of preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws could delay a change in management and limit our share price. Certain provisions of our amended certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or for us to acquire control of a third party even if such a change in control would increase the value of your common stock. We have a number of anti-takeover devices in place that will hinder takeover attempts and could reduce the market value of our common stock or prevent sale at a premium. Our anti-takeover provisions include: • a staggered, or classified, board of directors; • removal of directors, only for cause, by 80% of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote; • blank-check preferred stock, the preference, rights and other terms of which may be set by the board of directors and could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise benefit our stockholders; • a provision denying stockholders the ability to call special meetings; • Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders in certain situations; and • advance notice requirements by stockholders for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. We are subject to various environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to the generation, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Certain of these laws and regulations impose liability, without regard to fault or the lawfulness of the disposal activity, for the entire cost of the investigation and cleanup of contaminated sites on current and former owners and operators of real property and persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances at any location. Our facilities contain tanks 20 Table of Contents for the storage of diesel fuel and significant quantities of lead acid batteries to provide back-up power. We maintain an environmental compliance program that includes the implementation of required technical and operational procedures designed to minimize the potential for leaks and spills, maintenance of records and manufacturers’ recommended preventative maintenance. However, we cannot guarantee that these systems will remain free from leaks or that the use of these systems will not result in spills. Any leak or spill of hazardous materials could result in interruptions to our operations and expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, hazardous substances or regulated materials of which we are not aware may be present at facilities we operate and lease. To the extent any such contaminants are discovered at our facilities, we may be responsible under applicable laws, regulations or leases for any required removal or cleanup at substantial cost. In addition, non-compliance with or liabilities under existing environmental or health and safety laws and regulations, or the adoption of more stringent requirements in the future, could result in fines, penalties, third-party claims and other costs that could be material. Risks Related To Our Industry Our business depends on general economic performance and the continued use of the Internet, as well as the increasing adoption and usage of bandwidth intensive services. Acceptance and use of the Internet may not continue to develop at historical rates and a sufficiently broad base of consumers may not continue to use the Internet and other online services as a medium of communication, commerce and entertainment. Demand for Internet services and products is subject to a high level of uncertainty and such services and products are subject to significant pricing pressure. As a result, we cannot be certain that a viable market for our services will be sustainable in many of our markets. If the market for our services grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, our revenues and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. Industry consolidation may have a negative impact on our business. The telecommunications industry is currently undergoing consolidation. For example, two of our significant customers, Qwest and Level 3, acquired OnFiber and Progress Telecom, respectively, both of which are also significant customers. As our customers consolidate, there may be fewer telecommunications service providers available in our facilities and, with less network density in our facilities, our network neutral interconnection and colocation services may become less attractive to our customers. Further, our customers may require less interconnection and colocation services as they combine businesses. Given the competitive and evolving nature of this industry, further consolidation of our customers and competitors may present a risk to our network neutral business model and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Changes in technology could adversely affect our business. The markets for the services we offer are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new service introductions, shifting distribution channels and changing customer demands. We may not be able to adequately adapt our services or acquire new services that can compete successfully. We risk losing customers to our competitors if we are unable to adapt to this rapidly evolving marketplace. In addition, our large telecommunications service provider customers that may be colocated at our facilities and our competitors’ facilities may, for reasons that are beyond our control, decide to upgrade the equipment in our competitors’ facilities but not at our facilities. This could lead to the phasing out of our facilities as a marketplace for telecommunications services, making our services less desirable for our customers. Such an occurrence would adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to retain existing customers and our ability to attract new customers. 21 Table of Contents Government regulation of data networks is largely unsettled, and depending on its evolution, may adversely affect our business. The telecommunications industry is currently undergoing a transformation in technology as it moves from a traditional dedicated circuit network architecture to a design where all forms of traffic–voice, video, and information–are transmitted as digital bits over IP-based networks. With the advent of these digital data transmissions and the growth of the Internet, data networks are becoming the networks over which all communications services can be offered. Determining the appropriate regulatory framework for these data networks is one of the most significant challenges facing federal and state telecommunication policy makers. As a result of this fundamental shift in the telecommunications industry’s underlying technology, various laws and governmental regulations in Canada and at the federal, state and local level in the U.S., governing IP-based services, related communications services and information technologies remain largely unsettled. We are currently regulated by the Federal Communications Commission and the Canadian Radio Television and Telecommunications Commission regarding our provision of International Private Line interexchange services. We are also regulated by the New York State Department of Public Service regarding the provisions of intrastate interexchange services. Due to changing technology and applications of that technology it is uncertain whether and how existing laws or regulations or new laws or regulations will be applied by the Federal Communications Commission and other regulatory agencies in the future to other currently unregulated services we offer, or to new services or products that we may offer in the future. Terrorist activity throughout the world and military action to counter terrorism could adversely impact our business, particularly in regards to our operations located in the San Francisco Bay Area and New York City. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S., the ensuing declaration of war on terrorism, the war in Iraq and the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility appear to be having an adverse effect on business, financial and general economic conditions internationally. These effects may, in turn, increase our costs due to the need to provide enhanced security, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. These circumstances may also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, our ability to raise capital and the operation and maintenance of our facilities. We may not have adequate property and liability insurance to cover catastrophic events or attacks brought on by these factors. In addition, we depend heavily on the physical infrastructure, particularly as it relates to power, that exists in the markets in which we operate. Any damage to such infrastructure in these markets, particularly in our New York City and San Francisco Bay Area markets that are likely to be more prone to terrorist activity, may materially and adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There is no disclosure to report pursuant to Item 1B. 22 Table of Contents 