Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to ISG The loss of key executives could adversely affect our business. The success of our business is dependent upon the continued service of a relatively small group of our key executives consisting of Mr. Connors, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mr. Martell, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer; Mr. Doppelt, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary; and Mr. Gould, Executive Vice President. Although we currently intend to retain our existing management and may enter into employment or other compensation arrangements with them, the terms of which have not yet been determined, we cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. We do not have employment contracts with any of our current executives. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these executives could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock underlying our warrants, our warrants may have little or no value and the market for our warrants may be limited. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us, we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of our warrants until the expiration of our warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, our warrants may not be exercisable before they expire and we will not net-cash settle the warrants. Thus, our warrants may be deprived of any value. The market for our warrants may be limited, and the warrants may expire worthless. Even if warrant holders are not able to exercise their warrants because there is no current prospectus or the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, we can exercise our redemption rights. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. We may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units (including warrants issued and outstanding as a result of the exercise of the purchase option that we agreed to sell to the underwriters in the IPO and the warrants sold in the private placement) at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days' prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading-day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. 11 Table of Contents Our outstanding warrants may be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and would result in dilution to our stockholders. This might have an adverse effect on the market price of the common stock. Excluding 6.5 million warrants held collectively by executive officers of ISG (the "ISG Inside Stockholders"), outstanding redeemable warrants to purchase an aggregate of 24,147,323 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2008 became exercisable on January 31, 2008. Also, as part of the purchase consideration paid to MCP-TPI, ISG issued warrants exercisable beginning on November 16, 2008 into 5 million shares of ISG common stock at an exercise price of $9.18 per share. To the extent these warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to our stockholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. In addition, we sold to the underwriters in the IPO an option to purchase up to 1,406,250 units at $9.60 per unit. The exercise of this option, and the exercise of the warrants included in the units issuable upon the exercise of this option, would lead to further dilution and a potential increase in the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our shares. If the private placement prior to the IPO was not conducted in compliance with applicable law, the ISG Inside Stockholders may have the right to rescind the warrants purchased in the private placement. On January 31, 2007, we consummated a private placement of 6,500,000 warrants to an affiliate of ISG Inside Stockholders. Although we believe that we conducted the private placement in accordance with applicable law, there is a risk that the warrants should have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable blue sky laws, in which case the securities may have been issued in violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and such applicable blue sky laws. Although the ISG Inside Stockholders have waived their respective rights, if any, to rescind their warrant purchases as a remedy to our failure to register these securities, their waiver may not be enforceable in light of the public policy underlying federal and state securities laws. If the existing stockholders bring a claim against us and successfully assert rescission rights, we may be required to refund an aggregate of $6.5 million, plus interest, to them. To complete the TPI acquisition, we incurred a substantial amount of debt, which may limit our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, limit our flexibility in responding to business opportunities and competitive developments and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. We incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness to finance the TPI acquisition, transaction costs, and deferred underwriting fees. On November 16, 2007, our wholly-owned subsidiary International Consulting Acquisition Corp. ("ICAC") entered into a senior secured credit facility comprised of a $95,000,000 term loan facility and a $10,000,000 revolving credit facility. On November 16, 2007, ICAC borrowed $95.0 million under the term loan facility to finance the purchase price for our acquisition of TPI and to pay transaction costs. As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with the debt obligations, we expect that: •a decrease in revenues will result in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings; •we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed costs if our revenues decline or costs increase; •we may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed costs instead of funding general corporate requirements, including capital expenditures; 12 Table of Contents •we may not have sufficient liquidity to respond to business opportunities, competitive developments and adverse economic conditions; and •our results of operations will be adversely affected if interest rates increase because, based on our current outstanding term loan borrowings in the amount of $94,050,000, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in an after-tax impact on earnings of approximately $558,657 per year. These debt obligations may also impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business. Our indebtedness under the senior secured revolving credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, leaving us with limited collateral for additional financing. Moreover, the terms of our indebtedness under the senior secured revolving credit facility restrict our ability to take certain actions, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness, mergers and acquisitions, investments and asset sales. Our ability to pay the fixed costs associated with our debt obligations will depend on our operating performance and cash flow, which in turn depend on general economic conditions and the advisory services market. A failure to pay interest or indebtedness when due could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness. In such a situation, it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our obligations under or repay the accelerated indebtedness or otherwise cover our fixed costs. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could adversely affect our business and the market price of our Common Stock. Pursuant to rules adopted by the SEC implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. This report contains, among other matters, a statement as to whether or not our internal controls over financial reporting are effective and the disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting identified by management. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. Auditing Standard No. 5 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to attest to, and report on, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. Management's assessment of internal controls over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and, some of the judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation. Therefore, our management's report on our internal controls over financial reporting may be difficult to prepare, and our auditors may not agree with our management's assessment. While we currently believe our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, we are required to comply with Section 404 on an annual basis. If, in the future, we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting during this continuous evaluation process, our management will be unable to assert such internal controls are effective. Although we currently anticipate being able to continue to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion for our future evaluation, testing and any required remediation due in large part to the fact that there are limited precedents available by which to measure compliance with these new requirements. Therefore, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective in the future, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our business and the market price of our Common Stock. 13 Table of Contents Our operating results have been adversely impacted by the worldwide economic crisis and credit tightening. Beginning in the third quarter of 2008, worldwide economic conditions significantly deteriorated due to the credit crisis driven initially by the subprime mortgage crisis and other factors, including slower economic activity, recessionary concerns, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits, reduced or canceled capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. A decline in the level of business activity of our clients could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profit margin. In particular, our exposure to certain industries currently experiencing financial difficulties, including the automobile and financial services industries, could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Future economic conditions could cause some clients to reduce or defer their expenditures for consulting services. We have implemented and will continue to implement cost-savings initiatives to manage our expenses as a percentage of revenue. However, current and future cost-management initiatives may not be sufficient to maintain our margins if the economic environment should weaken for a prolonged period. Risks Related to TPI's Business The rate of growth in sourcing activity and/or the use of technology in business may fall significantly below the levels that TPI currently anticipates. TPI's business is dependent upon continued growth in sourcing activity, the use of technology in business by its clients and prospective clients and the continued trend towards sourcing of complex information technology and business process tasks by large and small organizations. If sourcing diminishes as a management and operational tool, the growth in the use of technology slows down or the cost of sourcing alternatives rises, TPI's business could suffer. Companies that have already invested substantial resources in developing in-house information technology and business process functions may be particularly reluctant or slow to move to a sourcing solution that may make some of their existing personnel and infrastructure obsolete. TPI's engagements may be terminated, delayed or reduced in scope by clients at any time. TPI's clients may decide at any time to abandon, postpone and/or to reduce TPI's involvement in an engagement. TPI's engagements can therefore terminate, or the scope of TPI's responsibilities may diminish, with limited advance notice. If an engagement is terminated, delayed or reduced unexpectedly, the TPI professionals working on the engagement could be underutilized until TPI assigns them to other projects. Accordingly, the termination or significant reduction in the scope of a single large engagement, or multiple smaller engagements, could harm TPI's business results. TPI's operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period as a result of factors outside of its control. TPI expects its revenues and operating results to vary significantly from accounting period to accounting period due to factors including: •fluctuations in revenues earned on contracts; •commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular period; •additions and departures of key advisors; •transitioning of advisors from completed projects to new engagements; •seasonal trends; 14 Table of Contents •the introduction of new services by TPI or its competitors; •changes in fees, pricing policies or compensation arrangements by TPI or its competitors; •strategic decisions by TPI, its clients or its competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; •global economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and •conditions in the travel industry that could prevent its advisors from traveling to client sites. TPI depends on project-based advisory engagements, and its failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in its revenues. Advisory engagements typically are project-based. TPI's ability to attract advisory engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: •delivering consistent, high-quality advisory services to its clients; •tailoring its advisory services to the changing needs of its clients; •matching the skills and competencies of its advisory staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential advisory engagements; and •maintaining a global business operation. Any material decline in TPI's ability to secure new advisory arrangements could have an adverse impact on its revenues and financial condition. TPI may not be able to maintain its existing services and products. TPI operates in a rapidly evolving market, and its success depends upon its ability to deliver high quality advice and analysis to its clients. Any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information and advice that is useful to its clients could have a significant adverse effect on future business and operating results. Further, if TPI's advice proves to be materially incorrect and the quality of service is diminished, TPI's reputation may suffer and demand for its services and products may decline. In addition, TPI must continue to improve its methods for delivering its products and services in a cost-effective manner. TPI may not have the ability to develop and offer the new services and products that it needs to remain competitive. TPI's future success will depend in part on its ability to offer new services and products. To maintain its competitive position, TPI must continue to enhance and improve its services and products, develop or acquire new services and products in a timely manner, and appropriately position and price new services and products relative to the marketplace and its costs of producing them. These new services and products must successfully gain market acceptance by addressing specific industry and business sectors and by anticipating and identifying changes in client requirements. The process of researching, developing, launching and gaining client acceptance of a new service or product, or assimilating and marketing an acquired service or product, is risky and costly. TPI may not be able to introduce new, or assimilate acquired, services and products successfully. Any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new services and products could have an adverse effect on TPI's business results. 15 Table of Contents TPI may fail to anticipate and respond to market trends. TPI's success depends in part upon its ability to anticipate rapidly changing technologies and market trends and to adapt its advice, services and products to meet the changing sourcing advisory needs of its clients. The range of sourcing options and number of service providers is expanding. This expansion is generating complexity in the industry which adds opportunity and risk to TPI's business. TPI's clients regularly undergo frequent and often dramatic changes. That environment of rapid and continuous change presents significant challenges to TPI's ability to provide its clients with current and timely analysis, strategies and advice on issues of importance to them. Meeting these challenges requires the commitment of substantial resources. Any failure to continue to respond to developments, technologies, and trends in a manner that meets market needs could have an adverse effect on its business results. TPI may be unable to protect its important intellectual property rights. TPI relies on copyright and trademark laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality arrangements, to protect its proprietary rights in its methods of performing its services and its tools for analyzing financial and other information. There can be no assurance that the steps TPI has taken to protect its intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of TPI's rights or that TPI will be able to detect unauthorized use and take timely and effective steps to enforce its rights. If substantial and material unauthorized uses of TPI's proprietary methodologies and analytical tools were to occur, TPI may be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce its rights. There can be no assurance that TPI would prevail in such litigation. If others were able to use its intellectual property or were to independently develop TPI's methodologies or analytical tools, TPI's ability to compete effectively and to charge appropriate fees for its services may be adversely affected. TPI faces competition and its failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The market for TPI's sourcing advisory services is competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change. TPI faces competition from many other providers of advisory and sourcing services ranging from large organizations to small firms and independent contractors that provide specialized services. TPI's competitors include any firm that provides sourcing advisory services, which may include a variety of consulting firms, service providers, niche sourcing advisors, strategy and law firms and, potentially, advisors currently or formerly employed by TPI. Some of TPI's competitors have significantly more financial and marketing resources, larger professional staffs, closer client relationships, broader geographic presence or more widespread recognition than TPI. In addition, limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which TPI does business. As a result, additional new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. Additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. There can be no assurance that TPI will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors, and its failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in its products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. Furthermore, it may not be successful if it cannot compete effectively on quality of advice and analysis, timely delivery of information, client service or the ability to offer services and products to meet changing market needs for information, analysis or price. TPI relies heavily on key members of its management team. TPI is dependent on its management team. ISG has entered into subscription and non-competition agreements with a number of these key management personnel. If any of the covenants contained in the subscription and non-competition agreements are violated, the key management personnel will 16 Table of Contents forfeit their ISG shares (or the after-tax proceeds if the shares have been sold). In addition, in connection with the closing of the acquisition of TPI, ISG issued restricted stock units (RSUs) and stock appreciation rights (SARs) to key TPI employees. Vesting rights in the RSUs and SARs are subject to compliance with restrictive covenant agreements. Vested and unvested RSUs and SARs will be forfeited upon any violation of the restrictive covenant agreements. Despite the non-competition and restrictive covenant agreements, TPI may not be able to retain these managers and may not be able to enforce the non-competition and restrictive covenants. If TPI were to lose a number of key members of its management team and were unable to replace these people quickly, TPI could have difficulty maintaining its growth and certain key relationships with large clients. TPI depends upon its ability to attract, retain and train skilled advisors and other professionals. TPI's business involves the delivery of advisory services. Therefore, its continued success depends in large part upon its ability to attract, develop, motivate, retain and train skilled advisors and other professionals who have advanced information technology and business processing domain expertise, financial analysis skills, project management experience and other similar abilities. TPI does not have non-competition agreements with many non-executive advisors. Consequently, these advisors could resign and join one of TPI's competitors or provide sourcing advisory services to TPI's clients through their own ventures. TPI must also recruit staff globally to support its services and products. TPI faces competition for the limited pool of these qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. Some of the personnel that TPI attempts to hire may be subject to non-compete agreements that could impede TPI's short-term recruitment efforts. Any failure to retain key personnel or hire and train additional qualified personnel as required to support the evolving needs of clients or growth in TPI's business could adversely affect the quality of its products and services, and its future business and operating results. TPI may have agreements with certain clients that limit the ability of particular advisors to work on some engagements for a period of time. TPI provides services primarily in connection with significant or complex sourcing transactions and other matters that provide potential competitive advantage and/or involve sensitive client information. TPI's engagement by a client occasionally precludes it from staffing certain advisors on new engagements because the advisors have received confidential information from a client who is a competitor of the new client. Furthermore, it is possible that TPI's engagement by a client could preclude it from accepting engagements with such client's competitors because of confidentiality concerns. In many industries in which TPI provides sourcing advisory services, there has been a trend toward business consolidations and strategic alliances that could limit the pool of potential clients. Consolidations and alliances reduce the number of potential clients for TPI's services and products and may increase the chances that it will be unable to continue some of its ongoing engagements or secure new engagements. TPI derives a significant portion of its revenues from its largest clients (including those in the automobile sector) and could materially and adversely be affected if it loses one or more of its large clients. TPI's 20 largest clients accounted for approximately 48% of revenue in 2008 and 52% in 2007. In particular, revenues from clients in the automotive sector collectively accounted for approximately 14% 17 Table of Contents of our 2008 annual revenue. These clients include General Motors, which is our largest client, GMAC and Chrysler. Although no single client accounts for or is expected to account for more than 10% of our revenue, if one or more of our large clients terminate or significantly reduce their engagements or fail to remain a viable business, then our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, sizable receivable balances could be jeopardized if large client(s) fail to remain viable. TPI's international operations expose it to a variety of risks which could negatively impact its future revenue and growth. Approximately 45% of TPI's revenues for 2008 and 39% for 2007 were derived from sales outside of North America. TPI's operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including: •tariffs and trade barriers; •regulations related to customs and import/export matters; •restrictions on entry visas required for TPI's advisors to travel and provide services; •tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; •cultural and language differences; •an inadequate banking system; •foreign exchange controls; •restrictions on the repatriation of profits or payment of dividends; •crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; •nationalization or expropriation of property; •law enforcement authorities and courts that are inexperienced in commercial matters; and •deterioration of political relations with the United States. Air travel, telecommunications and entry through international borders are all vital components of TPI's business. If a terrorist attack similar to 9/11 were to occur, TPI's business could be disproportionately impacted because of the disruption a terrorist attack causes on these vital components. TPI intends to continue to expand its global footprint in order to meet its clients' needs. This may involve expanding into countries beyond those in which it currently operates. It may involve expanding into less developed countries, which may have less political, social or economic stability and less developed infrastructure and legal systems. As TPI expands its business into new countries, regulatory, personnel, technological and other difficulties may increase its expenses or delay its ability to start up operations or become profitable in such countries. This may affect its relationships with its clients and could have an adverse affect on TPI's business. TPI operates in a number of international areas which exposes us to significant foreign currency exchange rate risk. TPI has significant international revenue, which is generally collected in local currency. The Company currently does not hold or issue forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments for hedging or speculative purposes. The percentage of total revenues generated outside the U.S. increased from 22% in 2004 to 45% in 2008. It is expected that TPI's international revenues will continue to grow as European and Asian markets adopt sourcing solutions. The U.S. dollar has recently strengthened relative to many local currencies and may continue to strengthen. As a result, the 18 Table of Contents translation of our revenues into U.S. dollars, as well as our costs of operating internationally, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. TPI may be subject to claims for substantial damages by its clients arising out of disruptions to their businesses or inadequate service and TPI's insurance coverage may be inadequate. Most of TPI's service contracts with clients contain service level and performance requirements, including requirements relating to the quality of its services. Failure to consistently meet service requirements of a client or errors made by TPI employees in the course of delivering services to its clients could disrupt the client's business and result in a reduction in revenues or a claim for damages against TPI. Additionally, TPI could incur liability if a process it manages for a client were to result in internal control failures or impair its client's ability to comply with its own internal control requirements. Under TPI's service agreements with its clients, its liability for breach of its obligations is generally limited to actual damages suffered by the client and is typically capped at the greater of an agreed amount or the fees paid or payable to it under the relevant agreement. These limitations and caps on liability may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect TPI from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which TPI may be required to indemnify its clients or liability for breaches of confidentiality, are generally not limited under those agreements. Although TPI has commercial general liability insurance coverage, the coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against TPI that exceed available insurance coverage, or changes in TPI's insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements) could have a material adverse effect on TPI's business. TPI could be liable to its clients for damages and subject to liability and its reputation could be damaged if its client data is compromised. TPI may be liable to its clients for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information. TPI is often required to collect and store sensitive or confidential client data in order to perform the services it provides under its contracts. Many of its contracts do not limit its potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of its current or former employees, penetrates TPI's network security or misappropriates sensitive data or if it does not adapt to changes in data protection legislation, TPI could be subject to significant liabilities to its clients or to its clients' customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client data, whether through breach of TPI's processes, systems or otherwise, could also damage its reputation and cause TPI to lose existing and potential clients. TPI may also be subject to civil actions and criminal prosecution by government or government agencies for breaches relating to such data. TPI's insurance coverage for breaches or mismanagement of such data may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against it. Client restrictions on the use of client data could adversely affect TPI's activities. The majority of the data TPI uses to populate its databases comes from its client engagements. The insight sought by clients from TPI relates to the contractual data and terms, including pricing and costs, to which TPI has access in the course of assisting its clients in the negotiation of its sourcing agreements. Data is obtained through the course of its engagements with clients who agree to contractual provisions permitting TPI to consolidate and utilize on an aggregate basis such information. If TPI were unable to utilize key data from previous client engagements, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents TPI may not be able to maintain the equity in its brand name. TPI has operated under the brand "TPI" for several years and has legally registered trademarks in certain appropriate jurisdictions. There are other entities providing advisory and similar technology-related services that use "Technology Partners" as, or as part of, their names. There can be no assurance that the resulting confusion and lack of brand-recognition in the marketplace created by this situation will not adversely affect TPI's business. Nevertheless, TPI believes that its "TPI" brand, including its independence, is critical to its efforts to attract and retain clients and staff and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. TPI may expand its marketing activities to promote and strengthen the TPI brand and may need to increase its marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, expend additional sums to protect the brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. If TPI fails to effectively promote and maintain the TPI brand or incurs excessive expenses in doing so, its future business and operating results could be adversely impacted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 