ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may continue to incur losses in the future. We have incurred annual losses since our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007, and 2008, we incurred net losses of $11.7 million, $0.8 million and $7.0 million, respectively. Until 2003, we did not generate positive net cash flow from operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $224.5 million. There can be no guarantee that we will achieve profitability. Even if we achieve profitability, given the competitive and evolving nature of the industry in which we operate, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our operating results have fluctuated historically and could continue to fluctuate in the future which could affect our ability to maintain our current market position or expand. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • changes in general economic conditions and specific market conditions in the telecommunications and Internet-related industries; • demand for colocation and interconnection services; • competition from other suppliers of the services we offer; • our access to capital and ability to fund capital expenditure projects; • our ability to complete capital expenditures projects on time and on budget; • the timing and magnitude of operating expenses, capital expenditures, and expenses related sales and marketing; • the cost and availability of power and cooling capacity; • the mix of our current services; • the financial condition and credit risk of our customers; and • our acquisition of additional data centers. 9 Table of Contents Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Although we have experienced growth in revenues and income in recent quarters, this growth rate is not necessarily indicative of future operating results. A relatively large portion of our expenses are fixed, particularly with respect to lease and personnel expenses, depreciation and amortization expenses, and interest expense. Therefore, our results of operations are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenues and the speed at which we complete data center expansions. As such, comparisons to prior periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. We may not be able to secure additional financing to meet our long-term capital needs. We may require additional financing to fund our planned long-term capital expenditures beyond 2009. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need such funding. If we are unable to raise additional funds, or unable to raise additional funds on favorable terms, we may not be able to pursue our growth strategy, or we may have to delay such strategy and our business could suffer. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, any debt financing that we may secure could have restrictive covenants, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential expansions and acquisitions. We have debt obligations which include restrictive covenants that limit our flexibility to manage our business; failure to comply with these covenants could trigger an acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. On March 27, 2008, we entered into a Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with an effective date of March 28, 2008. Such agreement provided for (i) a $120 million term loan (the “Term Loan”), (ii) a $22.5 million delayed draw term loan to be funded at the option the Company no later than March 27, 2009 (the “Delayed Draw Term Loan”), (iii) a $15 million revolving loan (the “Revolver”) to be used for loans and letters of credit, and (iv) the option to request an incremental term loan before March 27, 2009 of up to $50 million (the “Incremental Term Loan”) subject to the willingness of the lenders to make such loan (collectively, the “2008 Credit Facility”). The 2008 Credit Facility is guaranteed by the Company’s restricted subsidiaries, and is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2008, $120 million was outstanding under the Term Loan, a $1.4 letter of credit was outstanding under the Revolver, and no borrowings had occurred under the Delayed Draw Term Loan or any Incremental Term Loan. The 2008 Credit Facility requires that we comply with covenants, including various financial covenants, which among other things, restrict our ability to incur additional debt, pay dividends and make other restricted payments, sell assets, enter into affiliate transactions and take other actions. If we are unable to meet the terms of the financial covenants or if we breach any of the other covenants, a default subject to customary cure rights, could result under the 2008 Credit Facility. We have in the past violated certain covenants, under our previous credit facility, including several violations in 2006 that were subsequently waived by our lenders. A default, if not cured within any applicable cure period or waived by our lenders, could result in the acceleration of outstanding indebtedness and the exercise of remedies against the collateral and otherwise. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash available to repay our debt obligations when they become due and payable, we will have to refinance such obligations, or otherwise we will not be able to repay our debt (and our assets may be foreclosed upon). If new financing is made available, the terms may not be favorable to us and our business may be adversely affected. The gross domestic product in the U.S. has declined, indicating that the U.S. economy is in a recession. Global consumer confidence has recently eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, potential inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, and sovereign nations. These concerns have slowed economic growth and resulted in a recession in the U.S. If these economic conditions continue or worsen, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. Any of these effects could impact our ability to collect receivables, increase our need for cash, and ultimately decrease our net revenue and profitability. Inflation may adversely affect our business operations in the future. Given the current macroeconomic environment, the recently adopted stimulus package and other proposed spending measures may lead to inflationary conditions in our cost base, particularly resulting in an increase in our leases, utilities and personnel related expenses. This may harm our margins and profitability if we are unable to increase prices or reduce costs enough to offset the effects of inflation in our cost base. 10 Table of Contents The financial markets have recently experienced significant turmoil which may negatively impact our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing, and may also cause a decrease in demand for our services. Our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing may be negatively impacted if one of our lenders under the 2008 Credit Facility, or another financial institution, suffers liquidity issues. In such an event, we may not be able to draw on all, or a substantial portion, of the remaining funds under the 2008 Credit Facility. Also, if we attempt to obtain future financing in addition to the 2008 Credit Facility or as a replacement for the 2008 Credit Facility, the credit market turmoil could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, the credit market turmoil has negatively impacted certain of our customers which could lead to a decrease in demand for our services. Our ability to optimize the utilization of our data centers is limited by the availability and cost of sufficient electrical power and cooling capacity. The availability of an adequate supply of electrical power and cooling capacity, and the infrastructure to deliver that power and cooling, is critical to our ability to provide our services. Even though physical space may be available in a data center, the demand for electrical power may exceed our designed capacity. We may be unable to meet the increasing power and cooling needs of our customers if our customer mix does not match our expectations or our customers further increase their use of high density electrical power equipment, such as blade servers. In addition, the amount of saleable space within our data centers is reduced to the extent that we house generators and batteries to provide back-up power. Further, certain of the leases for our data centers also contain provisions that limit the supply of electrical power and cooling capacity to such data centers, as a result of which our ability to reach full utilization may be constrained in these data centers. If the availability of power limits our ability to fully utilize the space within our data centers, we may be unable to accept new customers at our data centers and our revenue growth will decline or we may incur additional costs to increase the power supply or acquire space at an additional data center. We face certain risks in collecting our trade accounts receivable. We generate a significant amount of trade accounts receivable sales from our customers. Delays or defaults in payments owed to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could cause a delay or default include business failures, turmoil in the financial and credit markets, sluggish or recessionary U.S. economic conditions, our exposure to customers in high-risk sectors, and declines in the credit worthiness of our customers. We are exposed to intangible asset risk; specifically, our goodwill may become impaired. As of December 31, 2008, we have $36.0 million of goodwill recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. A further significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate or slower growth rates could result in the need to perform an impairment analysis under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“FAS 142”) in future periods. If we were to conclude that a write down of our goodwill is necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge, which could result in material charges that are adverse to our operating results and financial position. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Estimates and Critical Accounting Policies—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” for further details. The high utilization of our data centers may limit our ability to grow in certain key markets, and we may be unable to expand our existing data centers or locate and secure suitable sites for additional data centers. Our data centers have reached high rates of utilization in many of our key markets. Our ability to meet the growing needs of our existing customers and to attract new customers in these key markets depends on our ability to add additional capacity by incrementally expanding our existing data centers or by locating and securing additional data centers in these markets. Such additional data centers must meet specific infrastructure requirements such as access to multiple telecommunications carriers, a significant supply of electrical power, high ceilings, and the ability to sustain heavy floor loading. In many markets, the supply of data centers with these characteristics is limited and subject to high demand. If we are unable to expand our capacity in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We are continuing to invest in our expansion efforts but we may not have sufficient customer demand in the future to realize expected returns on these investments. We continue to execute upon our strategy to expand our product capacity in existing markets. We will be required to commit substantial operational and financial resources to new and expanded data centers, generally six to eighteen months in advance of placing customers in such data centers, and we may not have sufficient customer demand in those markets to support these new and expanded data centers once they are built. In addition, unanticipated technological changes or excess capacity in the colocation market could negatively affect customer demand for our data centers. If any of these events were to occur, it could make it difficult for us to realize expected or reasonable returns on these investments and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our construction of additional data center space could involve significant risks to our business. Construction involves substantial planning and allocation of company resources. Construction also requires us to carefully select and rely on the experience of one or more general contractors and associated subcontractors during the construction process. Should a general contractor or significant subcontractor experience financial or other problems during the construction process, we could experience significant delays, increased costs to complete the project and other negative impacts to our expected returns. Site selection is also a critical factor in our expansion plans, and there may not be suitable properties available in our markets with the necessary combination of high power capacity and fiber connectivity. While we may prefer to locate new data center space adjacent to our existing locations, we may be limited by the inventory and location of suitable properties as well as by the need for adequate power and fiber to the site. In the event we decide to construct new data center space separate from our existing data centers, we may provide services to interconnect these two centers. Should these services not provide the necessary reliability to sustain service, this could result in lower interconnection revenue, lower margins and could have a negative impact on customer retention over time. We do not own the buildings in which our data centers are located. Instead, we lease our data center space, and the non-renewal of leases could be a significant risk to our ongoing operations. We would incur significant costs if we were forced to vacate one of our data centers due to the high costs of relocating the equipment in our data centers and installing the necessary infrastructure in a new data center. In addition, if we were forced to vacate a data center, we could lose customers that chose our services based on our location. Our landlords could attempt to evict us for reasons beyond our control. Further, we may be unable to maintain good working relationships with our landlords, which would adversely affect our customer service and could result in the loss of current customers. In addition, our business would be harmed by our inability to renew leases at favorable terms. Most of our leases provide two five-year renewal options with rent set at then-prevailing market rates. We expect the prevailing market rates will be higher than present rates. To maintain the operating profitability associated with our present cost structure, we must increase revenues within existing data centers to offset the anticipated increase in lease payments at the end of the original and renewal terms. Failure to increase revenue sufficiently to offset these projected higher costs would adversely impact our operating income. Additionally, eight of our leases do not contain renewal options. Renewing these leases at favorable terms will be critical to continuing those operations. Even those leases which contain renewal options do not ensure long-term operations at those data centers. If our contracts with our customers are not renewed or are terminated, our business could be substantially harmed. Our customer contracts for space and power typically have terms of one to three years. Interconnection services are typically provided either on a month-to-month basis or over a one year term. Our customers may elect to not renew these contracts. Furthermore, our customer contracts are terminable for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract, including the failure to provide power or connectivity for extended periods of time, or violate applicable laws or regulations. We may face increased competition and pricing pressure as our customer contracts become subject to renewal. Our customers may negotiate renewal of their contracts at lower rates, for fewer services or for shorter terms. If we are unable to successfully renew our customer contracts on their current terms, or if our customer contracts are terminated, our business could suffer. 12 Table of Contents We have been sued by landlords for breaches of our lease agreements. An adverse determination in any of these proceedings could result in significant liabilities. We have one open case with respect to a dispute arising out of an alleged breach of an abandoned lease agreement. This is a suit filed in Milwaukee, Wisconsin in May 2006, related to a letter of intent signed in January 2000, where the plaintiff is seeking damages of $4.7 million consisting of alleged lost rents, losses on the sale of the building, and attorneys’ fees. In the past, we have experienced adverse outcomes in litigation proceedings arising out of similar facts, and we have settled similar disputes for significant sums. The potential liabilities resulting from these claims may not be covered by our insurance policies or may be disputed by our insurers. Moreover, even if the claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, the cost of defending these suits may result in a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Any failure of our physical infrastructure or services could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenues, harm our business reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our business depends on providing customers with highly reliable service. The services we provide are subject to failure resulting from numerous factors, including: • human error; • power loss; • improper building maintenance by the landlords of the buildings in which our data centers are located; • physical or electronic security breaches; • fire, earthquake, hurricane, flood, and other natural disasters; • water damage; • the effect of war, terrorism, and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide; and • sabotage and vandalism. Problems at one or more of our data centers, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions or equipment damage. We have service level commitment obligations to substantially all of our customers. As a result, service interruptions or equipment damage in our data centers could result in credits for service interruptions to these customers. We have at times in the past given credits to our customers as a result of service interruptions due to equipment failures. We cannot assume that our customers will accept these credits as compensation in the future. Also, service interruptions and equipment failures may expose us to additional legal liability and impair our brand image. We depend on our landlords and other third-party providers to properly maintain the buildings in which our data centers are located. Improper maintenance by such landlords and third parties increase the risk of service interruptions and equipment damage. Additionally, certain of our data centers, particularly those in California, Florida and the Pacific Northwest, are located in areas particularly susceptible to natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, and tornadoes. The occurrence of any natural disaster could shut down one or more of our data centers and result in a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. Moreover, we may not have adequate property or liability insurance to cover catastrophic events. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. We compete with network-neutral data center operators, including U.S.-based telecommunications carriers and Internet service providers, managed service providers, and web hosting companies. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than us, and some have a greater presence in our markets and in other markets across the U.S. and around the world. Because of their greater financial resources, some of our competitors have the ability to adopt aggressive pricing policies. As a result, we may suffer from pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, certain of these competitors currently offer interconnection and colocation services in the same markets where we have data centers, and other competitors may start doing so in the future. Some of these competitors may also provide our current and potential customers with additional benefits, including one-stop shopping options through bundled services, and may do so in a manner that is more attractive to our potential customers than our services. These competitors may be able to provide bundled services at prices lower than our cost structure allows. If, as a result of such efficiencies, these competitors are able to adopt aggressive pricing policies, our ability to generate revenues would be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents In addition, our competitors may operate more successfully or form alliances to acquire significant market share. Once businesses locate their networking and computing equipment in competitors’ data centers, it may be extremely difficult to convince them to relocate to our data centers. Furthermore, a business that has already invested substantial resources in such arrangements may be reluctant or slow to replace, or reduce its existing services by becoming our customer. Finally, we may also experience competition from our landlords. Rather than leasing available space in our buildings to us or other large single tenants, they may decide to convert the space instead to smaller units designed for multi-tenant use. Landlords may enjoy a cost advantage in providing services similar to those provided by us, and this could also reduce the amount of space available to us for expansion in the future. If we fail to differentiate our data centers and services from the services provided by our current or future competitors, we may not be able to compete successfully and our business and results of operation may be adversely affected. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers for power and certain other services, and we are vulnerable to service failures of our third-party suppliers and to price increases by such suppliers. We generally do not control the amount of power our customers draw from their installed circuits. We rely on third parties to provide power, and we cannot ensure that these third parties will deliver such power in adequate quantities or on a consistent basis. If the amount of power available to us is inadequate to support our customer requirements or delivery of power does not occur in a timely manner, we may be unable to provide our services to our customers and our operating results and cash flow may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our data centers are susceptible to power shortages and planned or unplanned power outages caused by these shortages. We attempt to limit exposure to power shortages by using backup generators and batteries. Power outages, which may last beyond our backup and alternative power arrangements, would harm our customers and our business. In the past, a limited number of our customers have experienced temporary losses of power. We could incur financial obligations in connection with a loss of power. In addition, any loss of services or equipment damage could reduce the confidence of our customers in our services and could consequently impair our ability to attract and retain customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our operating results. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers for the resale of Internet access and other services, and we have no control over the quality and reliability of the services provided by these suppliers. In the past, some of these providers have experienced significant system failures. Users of our services may in the future experience difficulties due to service failures unrelated to our systems and services. If for any reason these suppliers fail to provide certain services to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend upon a limited number of network provider customers in certain of our data centers, and the loss of one or more of these customers in those data centers could adversely affect business. Because we do not own or operate our own network, we depend upon network providers to colocate and/or interconnect as customers in our data centers and contribute to the network density that attracts our other customers. In several of our smaller markets we have agreements with only a limited number of network providers. In these small market data centers, we expect that we will continue to rely upon a smaller number of network provider customers to maintain network density within those data centers. Our agreements with these network providers will expire over a one to three year period if not renewed. A loss of one or more of these customers could have a material and adverse effect on the operations of one or more of our data centers. Our ability to grow depends on a diverse customer base, and our failure to develop and maintain a diverse customer base could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to develop and maintain a diverse customer base, consisting of a variety of businesses, including telecommunications carriers, Internet service providers, and enterprises. We believe creating a diverse customer base in each data center will generate incremental interconnection revenues in the long-term and increase our overall revenues. Our ability to attract and retain these customers will depend on a variety of factors, including the presence of multiple telecommunications carriers in our data centers, the mix of services offered by us, our overall customer mix, the operating reliability and security of our data centers, and our ability to market our services effectively across different customer segments. If we fail to develop and maintain a diverse customer base, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may make future acquisitions, which could include integration and other risks that could harm our business. We may acquire complementary businesses, product or service lines, and technologies in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to (1) identify future strategic acquisitions, (2) consummate these potential acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all, or (3) if consummated, successfully integrate the operations and management of future acquisitions. To finance these acquisitions, we may incur additional debt and issue additional shares of our stock, which will dilute existing stockholders’ ownership interests in us and may adversely affect our business and operations. 14 Table of Contents Specific challenges we have encountered in our prior acquisitions include the following: • unexpected additional capital expenditures to improve the condition of the acquired equipment so as to achieve the desired level of quality of service; • additional capital expenditures because of less product availability than expected; • loss of customers; and • difficulties in maintaining uniform procedures, policies, and controls. Future acquisitions may expose us to the challenges set forth above and other risks such as: • Financial risks, such as (1) the payment of a purchase price that exceeds the future value that we may realize from the acquired operations and businesses; (2) an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements, which could reduce our return on invested capital; (3) potential known and unknown liabilities of the acquired businesses; (4) costs associated with integrating acquired businesses, operations, or technologies; (5) the dilutive effect of the issuance of additional equity securities; (6) the incurrence of additional debt; (7) the financial impact of valuing goodwill and other intangible assets involved in any acquisitions, potential future impairment write-downs of goodwill and indefinite life intangibles and the amortization of other intangible assets; and (8) possible adverse tax and accounting effects. • Operating risks, such as (1) the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the businesses, operations, or technologies to be acquired; (2) the risk that the acquired businesses, operations, or technologies will fail to maintain the quality of services that we have historically provided; (3) the need to implement financial and other systems and add management resources; (4) the need to maintain customer, supplier or other favorable business relationships of acquired operations and restructure or terminate unfavorable relationships; (5) the potential for deficiencies in internal controls of the acquired operations; (6) we may not be able to attract and retain the employees necessary to support the acquired businesses; (7) unforeseen difficulties (including any unanticipated liabilities) in the acquired operations; and (8) the impact on us of any unionized work force we may acquire or any labor disruptions that might occur. Our services have a long sales cycle that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The sales cycle may lengthen even more due to the current macroeconomic environment. A customer’s decision to license rack, cabinet, or cage space in one of our data centers and to purchase interconnection services typically involves a significant commitment of our time and resources. Many customers are reluctant to commit to purchasing our colocation and interconnection services until they are confident that our data center has adequate available carrier connections and network density. As a result, we may experience a long sales cycle for our services. Furthermore, we may expend significant time and resources in pursuing a particular sale or customer that does not generate revenue. Delays due to the length of our sales cycle or costs incurred that do not result in sales may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our success largely depends upon retaining the services of our management team and other key employees. We are highly dependent on our management team and other key employees. We expect that our continued success will largely depend upon the efforts and abilities of members of our management team and other key employees. Our success also depends upon our ability to identify, develop, and retain qualified employees. The loss of one or more of our management or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our brand is not as well known as that of some of our competitors. Failure to develop and maintain brand recognition could harm our ability to compete effectively. Many of our competitors are large telecommunications service providers that promote their brands with significantly larger budgets than we have for brand promotion. If we fail to develop and maintain brand recognition through sales and marketing efforts and a reputation for high quality service, we may be unable to attract new customers and risk losing existing customers to competitors with better known brands. We have not been successful in attracting customers in several regional markets and have closed several data centers. We maintain a presence in select regional markets across the U.S. and, in several of those markets, we have not been successful in attracting customers to our data centers. We have also exited certain markets. In connection with our exit from these markets and in other markets, we have taken significant asset impairment and discontinuation charges. Our failure to attract sufficient customers in our remaining regional markets could cause us to close one or more of our data centers and lose prospective customers and may adversely affect our business. 15 Table of Contents We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. We are subject to various environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to the generation, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Certain of these laws and regulations impose liability, without regard to fault or the lawfulness of the disposal activity, for the entire cost of the investigation and cleanup of contaminated sites on current and former owners and operators of real property and persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances at any location. Our data centers contain tanks for the storage of diesel fuel and significant quantities of lead acid batteries to provide back-up power. We maintain an environmental compliance program that includes the implementation of required technical and operational procedures designed to minimize the potential for leaks and spills, maintenance of records, and manufacturers’ recommended preventative maintenance. However, we cannot guarantee that these systems will remain free from leaks or that the use of these systems will not result in spills. Any leak or spill of hazardous materials could result in interruptions to our operations and expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, hazardous substances or regulated materials of which we are not aware may be present at data centers we operate and lease. To the extent any such contaminants are discovered at our data centers, we may be responsible under applicable laws, regulations, or leases for any required removal or cleanup at substantial cost. In addition, non-compliance with or liabilities under existing environmental or health and safety laws and regulations, or the adoption of more stringent requirements in the future, could result in fines, penalties, third-party claims, and other costs that could be material. Fluctuations in Canadian exchange rates could harm our results of operations We have a data center located in Toronto, Canada. We may experience gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in Canadian currency exchange rates. Fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates have a direct impact on how our international results of operations translate into U.S. dollars. During 2007 and the first half of 2008, the U.S. dollar was fairly weak relative to the Canadian dollar. This weakness of the U.S. dollar had a positive impact on our consolidated results of operations because the foreign denominations translated into more U.S. dollars. During the last half of 2008, however the U.S. dollar strengthened relative to the Canadian dollar. This change adversely impacted our results of operations as amounts in Canadian dollars generally translated into fewer U.S. dollars. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens further, this will continue to have an unfavorable impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations including the amount of revenue that we report in future periods. For additional information on foreign currency risk, refer to our discussion of foreign currency risk in “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” included in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Increases in property taxes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our data centers are subject to state and local real property taxes. The state and local real property taxes on our data centers may increase as property tax rates change and as the value of the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Many state and local governments are facing budget deficits, which may cause them to increase assessments or taxes. If property taxes increase, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Certain of our stockholders have significant control. Several of our stockholders each hold voting control over greater than 10% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, these stockholders are not prohibited from buying shares of our stock in public or private transactions. As a result, each of these stockholders is able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which could prevent or delay a third party from acquiring or merging with us. We may be vulnerable to security breaches which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operating results. A party who is able to compromise the security measures on our networks or the security of our infrastructure could misappropriate either our proprietary information or the personal information of our customers, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and financial resources to protect against such threats or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security. As techniques used to breach security change frequently, and are generally not recognized until launched against a target, we may not be able to implement security measures in a timely manner or, if and when implemented, these measures could be circumvented. Any breaches that may occur could expose us to increased risk of lawsuits, loss of existing or potential customers, harm to our reputation and increases in our security costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operating results. 16 Table of Contents A small number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenues, and the loss of any of these customers could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. While no single customer accounted for 10% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, aggregate revenues for our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 25% of our total revenues during this period. We currently depend, and expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net revenue and upon their growth, viability, and financial stability. If any of our customers experience a decline in demand due to economic or other forces, the customer may reduce its level of commitment to us or terminate their relationship with us. A significant reduction in sales to any of our customers or a customer exerting significant pricing and margin pressures on us could have a material adverse effect on our result of operations. If the market price of our stock continues to be highly volatile, the value of an investment in our common stock may decline and our ability to provide incentive compensation to our employees may be negatively impacted. The market price of the shares of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. From February 7, 2007 to December 31, 2008, the price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has ranged from $3.92 to $22.00 per share. General economic and market conditions, and market conditions for telecommunications stocks in general, may affect the market price of our common stock. Announcements by us or our key customers or competitors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These announcements may relate to: • our operating results; • general conditions in our industry; • new issuance of equity, debt, or convertible debt by us; • developments in our relationships with customers; • changes in regulatory policy or interpretation; • changes in the rating of our stock by securities analysts; • our development of additional data center space; • acquisitions by us of complementary businesses; or • the operational performance of our data centers. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies and emerging telecommunications companies in particular, fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. Those fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions or international currency fluctuations and demand for our services, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As is common in our industry, our management team and employees are typically compensated through grants of equity awards in addition to their regular salaries. The volatility of our stock price, and its current depressed levels, may negatively impact our ability to provide equity incentive value to our management team and employees. To the extent we are unable to offer competitive compensation packages to our employees and adequately maintain equity incentive value, this may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our authorized but unissued common stock and preferred stock may prevent a change in our control. Our amended certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights, and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board may establish a series of preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. 17 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our amended certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws could delay a change in management and limit our share price. Certain provisions of our amended certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or for us to acquire control of a third party even if such a change in control would increase the value of your common stock. We have a number of anti-takeover devices in place that will hinder takeover attempts and could reduce the market value of our common stock or prevent sale at a premium. Our anti-takeover provisions include: • a staggered, or classified, board of directors; • removal of directors, only for cause, by 80% of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote; • a provision denying stockholders the ability to call special meetings; • Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders in certain situations; and • advance notice requirements by stockholders for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings. Failure to design, implement and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As a public company, we must meet certain requirements for disclosure and internal controls and procedures. The process of designing and implementing effective controls and procedures is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of controls and procedures that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. If we are unable to establish and maintain appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations on a timely basis, result in material misstatements in our financial statements and harm our operating results. In addition, we are required to document and test our disclosure and internal controls and procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors on our internal control over financial reporting. Testing and maintaining our disclosure and internal controls and procedures may divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective disclosure controls and procedures, effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or our independent auditors may not issue a favorable assessment. If either we are unable to conclude that we have effective disclosure controls and procedures, effective internal control over financial reporting or our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Risks Related To Our Industry Our business depends on the continued use of the Internet, as well as the increasing adoption and usage of bandwidth intensive services. Acceptance and use of the Internet may not continue to develop at historical rates and a sufficiently broad base of consumers may not continue to use the Internet and other online services as a medium of communication, commerce, and entertainment. Demand for Internet services and products is subject to a high level of uncertainty and such services and products are subject to significant pricing pressure. As a result, we cannot be certain that a viable market for our services will be sustainable in our markets. If the market for our services grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, our revenues and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. Industry consolidation may have a negative impact on our business. The telecommunications industry has a history of consolidation. As our customers consolidate, there may be fewer telecommunications service providers available in our data centers and, with less network density in our data centers, our network-neutral interconnection and colocation services may become less attractive to our customers. Further, our customers may require less colocation and interconnection services as they combine businesses. Given the competitive and evolving nature of this industry, further consolidation of our customers and competitors may present a risk to our network-neutral business model and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Changes in technology could adversely affect our business. The markets for the services we offer are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new service introductions, shifting distribution channels, and changing customer demands. We may not be able to adequately adapt our services or acquire new services that can compete successfully. We risk losing customers to our competitors if we are unable to adapt to this rapidly evolving marketplace. In addition, our large telecommunications service provider customers that may be colocated at our data centers and our competitors’ data centers may, for reasons that are beyond our control, decide to upgrade the equipment in our competitors’ data centers but not at our data centers. This could lead to the phasing out of our data centers as a marketplace for telecommunications services, making our services less desirable for our customers. Such an occurrence would adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to retain existing customers, and our ability to attract new customers. Government regulation of data networks is largely unsettled, and depending on its evolution, may adversely affect our business. The telecommunications industry is currently undergoing a transformation in technology as it moves from a traditional dedicated circuit network architecture to a design where all forms of traffic—voice, video, and information—are transmitted as digital bits over IP-based networks. With the advent of these digital data transmissions and the growth of the Internet, data networks are becoming the networks over which all communications services can be offered. Determining the appropriate regulatory framework for these data networks is one of the most significant challenges facing federal and state telecommunication policy makers. As a result of this fundamental shift in the telecommunications industry’s underlying technology, various laws, and governmental regulations in Canada and at the federal, state, and local level in the U.S., governing IP-based services, related communications services, and information technologies remain largely unsettled. We are currently regulated by the Federal Communications Commission and the Canadian Radio Television and Telecommunications Commission regarding our provision of International Private Line interexchange services. We are also regulated by the New York State Department of Public Service regarding the provisions of intrastate interexchange services. Due to changing technology and applications of that technology it is uncertain whether and how existing laws or regulations or new laws or regulations will be applied by the Federal Communications Commission and other regulatory agencies in the future to other currently unregulated services we offer, or to new services or products that we may offer in the future. Terrorist activity throughout the world and military action to counter terrorism could adversely impact our business, particularly in regards to our operations located in the San Francisco Bay Area and New York City. We may not have adequate property and liability insurance to cover catastrophic events or attacks brought on by these factors. In addition, we depend heavily on the physical infrastructure, particularly as it relates to power, that exists in the markets in which we operate. Any damage to such infrastructure in these markets, particularly in our New York City and San Francisco Bay Area markets that are likely to be more prone to terrorist activity, may materially and adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents 