Item 1A. Risk Factors The loss of key executives could adversely affect our business. The success of our business is dependent upon the continued service of a relatively small group of our key executives consisting of Mr. Connors, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mr. Berger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer; Mr. Doppelt, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary; and Mr. Gould, Executive Vice President. Although we currently intend to retain our existing management and may enter into employment or other compensation arrangements with them, the terms of which have not yet been determined, we cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. We do not have employment contracts with any of our current executives. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these executives could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock underlying our warrants, our warrants may have little or no value and the market for our warrants may be limited. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us, we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of our warrants until the expiration of our warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, our warrants may not be exercisable before they expire and we will not net-cash settle the warrants. Thus, our warrants may be deprived of any value. The market for our warrants may be limited, and the warrants may expire worthless. Even if warrant holders are not able to exercise their warrants because there is no current prospectus or the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, we can exercise our redemption rights. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. We may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units (including warrants issued and outstanding as a result of the exercise of the purchase option that we agreed to sell to the underwriters in the IPO and the warrants sold in the private placement) at any time in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days' prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading-day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. 11 Table of Contents Our outstanding warrants may be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and would result in dilution to our stockholders. This might have an adverse effect on the market price of the common stock. Excluding 6.5 million warrants held collectively by three executive officers and one former executive officer of ISG (the "ISG Inside Stockholders"), outstanding redeemable warrants to purchase an aggregate of 24,147,323 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2009 became exercisable on January 31, 2008. Also, as part of the purchase consideration paid to MCP-TPI Holdings, LLC, a Texas limited liability company ("MCP-TPI"), ISG issued warrants exercisable beginning on November 16, 2008 into 5 million shares of ISG common stock at an exercise price of $9.18 per share. To the extent these warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to our stockholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. In addition, we sold to the underwriters in the IPO an option to purchase up to 1,406,250 units at $9.60 per unit. The exercise of this option, and the exercise of the warrants included in the units issuable upon the exercise of this option, would lead to further dilution and a potential increase in the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our shares. If the private placement prior to the IPO was not conducted in compliance with applicable law, the ISG Inside Stockholders may have the right to rescind the warrants purchased in the private placement. On January 31, 2007, we consummated a private placement of 6,500,000 warrants to an affiliate of ISG Inside Stockholders. Although we believe that we conducted the private placement in accordance with applicable law, there is a risk that the warrants should have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable blue sky laws, in which case the securities may have been issued in violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and such applicable blue sky laws. Although the ISG Inside Stockholders have waived their respective rights, if any, to rescind their warrant purchases as a remedy to our failure to register these securities, their waiver may not be enforceable in light of the public policy underlying federal and state securities laws. If the existing stockholders bring a claim against us and successfully assert rescission rights, we may be required to refund an aggregate of $6.5 million, plus interest, to them. To complete the acquisition, we incurred a substantial amount of debt, which may limit our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, limit our flexibility in responding to business opportunities and competitive developments and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. We incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness to finance the acquisition, transaction costs, and deferred underwriting fees. On November 16, 2007, our wholly-owned subsidiary International Consulting Acquisition Corp. ("ICAC") entered into a senior secured credit facility comprised of a $95.0 million term loan facility and a $10.0 million revolving credit facility. On November 16, 2007, ICAC borrowed $95.0 million under the term loan facility to finance the purchase price for our acquisition of TPI and to pay transaction costs. As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with the debt obligations, we expect that: •a decrease in revenues will result in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings; •we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed costs if our revenues decline or costs increase; •we may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed costs instead of funding general corporate requirements, including capital expenditures; 12 Table of Contents •we may not have sufficient liquidity to respond to business opportunities, competitive developments and adverse economic conditions; and •our results of operations will be adversely affected if interest rates increase because, based on our current outstanding term loan borrowings in the amount of $71.8 million, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a pre-tax impact on earnings of approximately $0.7 million per year. These debt obligations may also impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business. Our indebtedness under the senior secured revolving credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, leaving us with limited collateral for additional financing. Moreover, the terms of our indebtedness under the senior secured revolving credit facility restrict our ability to take certain actions, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness, mergers and acquisitions, investments and asset sales. Our ability to pay the fixed costs associated with our debt obligations will depend on our operating performance and cash flow, which in turn depend on general economic conditions and the advisory services market. A failure to pay interest or indebtedness when due could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness. In such a situation, it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our obligations under or repay the accelerated indebtedness or otherwise cover our fixed costs. As of December 31, 2009, the total principal outstanding under the term loan facility was $71.8 million. There were no borrowings under the revolving credit facility during fiscal 2009. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could adversely affect our business and the market price of our Common Stock. Pursuant to rules adopted by the SEC implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. This report contains, among other matters, a statement as to whether or not our internal controls over financial reporting are effective and the disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting identified by management. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. Auditing Standard No. 5 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to attest to, and report on, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. Management's assessment of internal controls over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and, some of the judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation. Therefore, our management's report on our internal controls over financial reporting may be difficult to prepare, and our auditors may not agree with our management's assessment. While we currently believe our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, we are required to comply with Section 404 on an annual basis. If, in the future, we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting during this continuous evaluation process, our management will be unable to assert such internal controls are effective. Although we currently anticipate being able to continue to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion for our future evaluation, testing and any required remediation due in large part to the fact that there are limited precedents available by which to measure compliance with these new requirements. Therefore, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective in the future, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, our investors could lose confidence in 13 Table of Contents the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our business and the market price of our Common Stock. Our operating results have been adversely impacted by the worldwide economic crisis and credit tightening. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, worldwide economic conditions significantly deteriorated due to the credit crisis driven initially by the subprime mortgage crisis and other factors, including slower economic activity, recessionary concerns, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits, reduced or canceled capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. A decline in the level of business activity of our clients could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profit margin. In particular, our exposure to certain industries currently experiencing financial difficulties, including the automobile and financial services industries, could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Future economic conditions could cause some clients to reduce or defer their expenditures for consulting services. We have implemented and will continue to implement cost-savings initiatives to manage our expenses as a percentage of revenue. However, current and future cost-management initiatives may not be sufficient to maintain our margins if the economic environment should weaken for a prolonged period. The rate of growth in sourcing activity and/or the use of technology in business may fall significantly below the levels that we currently anticipate. Our business is dependent upon continued growth in sourcing activity, the use of technology in business by our clients and prospective clients and the continued trend towards sourcing of complex information technology and business process tasks by large and small organizations. If sourcing diminishes as a management and operational tool, the growth in the use of technology slows down or the cost of sourcing alternatives rises, our business could suffer. Companies that have already invested substantial resources in developing in-house information technology and business process functions may be particularly reluctant or slow to move to a sourcing solution that may make some of their existing personnel and infrastructure obsolete. Our engagements may be terminated, delayed or reduced in scope by clients at any time. Our clients may decide at any time to abandon, postpone and/or to reduce our involvement in an engagement. Our engagements can therefore terminate, or the scope of our responsibilities may diminish, with limited advance notice. If an engagement is terminated, delayed or reduced unexpectedly, the professionals working on the engagement could be underutilized until we assign them to other projects. Accordingly, the termination or significant reduction in the scope of a single large engagement, or multiple smaller engagements, could harm our business results. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period as a result of factors outside of our control. We expect our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from accounting period to accounting period due to factors including: •fluctuations in revenues earned on contracts; •commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular period; •additions and departures of key advisors; •transitioning of advisors from completed projects to new engagements; 14 Table of Contents •seasonal trends; •the introduction of new services by us or our competitors; •changes in fees, pricing policies or compensation arrangements by us or our competitors; •strategic decisions by us, our clients or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; •global economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and •conditions in the travel industry that could prevent our advisors from traveling to client sites. We depend on project-based advisory engagements, and our failure to secure new engagements could lead to a decrease in our revenues. Advisory engagements typically are project-based. Our ability to attract advisory engagements is subject to numerous factors, including the following: •delivering consistent, high-quality advisory services to our clients; •tailoring our advisory services to the changing needs of our clients; •matching the skills and competencies of our advisory staff to the skills required for the fulfillment of existing or potential advisory engagements; and •maintaining a global business operation. Any material decline in our ability to secure new advisory arrangements could have an adverse impact on our revenues and financial condition. We may not be able to maintain our existing services and products. We operate in a rapidly evolving market, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver high quality advice and analysis to our clients. Any failure to continue to provide credible and reliable information and advice that is useful to our clients could have a significant adverse effect on future business and operating results. Further, if our advice proves to be materially incorrect and the quality of service is diminished, our reputation may suffer and demand for our services and products may decline. In addition, we must continue to improve our methods for delivering our products and services in a cost-effective manner. We may not have the ability to develop and offer the new services and products that we need to remain competitive. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to offer new services and products. To maintain our competitive position, we must continue to enhance and improve our services and products, develop or acquire new services and products in a timely manner, and appropriately position and price new services and products relative to the marketplace and our costs of producing them. These new services and products must successfully gain market acceptance by addressing specific industry and business sectors and by anticipating and identifying changes in client requirements. The process of researching, developing, launching and gaining client acceptance of a new service or product, or assimilating and marketing an acquired service or product, is risky and costly. We may not be able to introduce new, or assimilate acquired, services and products successfully. Any failure to achieve successful client acceptance of new services and products could have an adverse effect on our business results. 15 Table of Contents We may fail to anticipate and respond to market trends. Our success depends in part upon our ability to anticipate rapidly changing technologies and market trends and to adapt our advice, services and products to meet the changing sourcing advisory needs of our clients. The range of sourcing options and number of service providers is expanding. This expansion is generating complexity in the industry which adds opportunity and risk to our business. Our clients regularly undergo frequent and often dramatic changes. That environment of rapid and continuous change presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our clients with current and timely analysis, strategies and advice on issues of importance to them. Meeting these challenges requires the commitment of substantial resources. Any failure to continue to respond to developments, technologies, and trends in a manner that meets market needs could have an adverse effect on our business results. We may be unable to protect important intellectual property rights. We rely on copyright and trademark laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality arrangements, to protect our proprietary rights in our methods of performing our services and our tools for analyzing financial and other information. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our rights or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take timely and effective steps to enforce our rights. If substantial and material unauthorized uses of our proprietary methodologies and analytical tools were to occur, we may be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our rights. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in such litigation. If others were able to use our intellectual property or were to independently develop our methodologies or analytical tools, our ability to compete effectively and to charge appropriate fees for our services may be adversely affected. We face competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The market for our sourcing advisory services is competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change. We face competition from many other providers of advisory and sourcing services ranging from large organizations to small firms and independent contractors that provide specialized services. Our competitors include any firm that provides sourcing advisory services, which may include a variety of consulting firms, service providers, niche sourcing advisors, strategy and law firms and, potentially, advisors currently or formerly employed by us. Some of our competitors have significantly more financial and marketing resources, larger professional staffs, closer client relationships, broader geographic presence or more widespread recognition than us. In addition, limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. As a result, additional new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. Additionally, technological advances may provide increased competition from a variety of sources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete against current and future competitors and our failure to do so could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing and increased marketing expenditures. Furthermore, we may not be successful if we cannot compete effectively on quality of advice and analysis, timely delivery of information, client service or the ability to offer services and products to meet changing market needs for information, analysis or price. We rely heavily on key members of our management team. We are dependent on our management team. We have entered into subscription and non-competition agreements with a number of these key management personnel. If any of the 16 Table of Contents covenants contained in the subscription and non-competition agreements are violated, the key management personnel will forfeit their shares (or the after-tax proceeds if the shares have been sold). We issued restricted stock units ("RSUs") and stock appreciation rights ("SARs") to key employees. Vesting rights in the RSUs and SARs are subject to compliance with restrictive covenant agreements. Vested and unvested RSUs and SARs will be forfeited upon any violation of the restrictive covenant agreements. Despite the non-competition and restrictive covenant agreements, we may not be able to retain these managers and may not be able to enforce the non-competition and restrictive covenants. If we were to lose a number of key members of our management team and were unable to replace these people quickly, we could have difficulty maintaining our growth and certain key relationships with large clients. We depend upon our ability to attract, retain and train skilled advisors and other professionals. Our business involves the delivery of advisory services. Therefore, our continued success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate, retain and train skilled advisors and other professionals who have advanced information technology and business processing domain expertise, financial analysis skills, project management experience and other similar abilities. We do not have non-competition agreements with many non-executive advisors. Consequently, these advisors could resign and join one of our competitors or provide sourcing advisory services to our clients through their own ventures. We must also recruit staff globally to support our services and products. We face competition for the limited pool of these qualified professionals from, among others, technology companies, market research firms, consulting firms, financial services companies and electronic and print media companies, some of which have a greater ability to attract and compensate these professionals. Some of the personnel that we attempt to hire may be subject to non-compete agreements that could impede our short-term recruitment efforts. Any failure to retain key personnel or hire and train additional qualified personnel as required supporting the evolving needs of clients or growth in our business could adversely affect the quality of our products and services, and our future business and operating results. We may have agreements with certain clients that limit the ability of particular advisors to work on some engagements for a period of time. We provide services primarily in connection with significant or complex sourcing transactions and other matters that provide potential competitive advantage and/or involve sensitive client information. Our engagement by a client occasionally precludes us from staffing certain advisors on new engagements because the advisors have received confidential information from a client who is a competitor of the new client. Furthermore, it is possible that our engagement by a client could preclude us from accepting engagements with such client's competitors because of confidentiality concerns. In many industries in which we provide sourcing advisory services, there has been a trend toward business consolidations and strategic alliances that could limit the pool of potential clients. Consolidations and alliances reduce the number of potential clients for our services and products and may increase the chances that we will be unable to continue some of our ongoing engagements or secure new engagements. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our largest clients (including those in the automobile sector) and could materially and adversely be affected if we lose one or more of our large clients. Our 20 largest clients accounted for approximately 44% of revenue in 2009 and 48% in 2008. In particular, revenues from clients in the automobile sector collectively accounted for approximately 15% of our 2009 annual revenue. Although only General Motors accounts for more than 10% of our 17 Table of Contents revenues, if one or more of our large clients terminate or significantly reduce their engagements or fail to remain a viable business, then our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, sizable receivable balances could be jeopardized if large clients fail to remain viable. Our international operations expose us to a variety of risks which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. Approximately 42% of our revenues for 2009 and 45% for 2008 were derived from sales outside of the Americas. Our operating results are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including: •tariffs and trade barriers; •regulations related to customs and import/export matters; •restrictions on entry visas required for our advisors to travel and provide services; •tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; •cultural and language differences; •an inadequate banking system; •foreign exchange controls; •restrictions on the repatriation of profits or payment of dividends; •crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; •nationalization or expropriation of property; •law enforcement authorities and courts that are inexperienced in commercial matters; and •deterioration of political relations with the United States. Air travel, telecommunications and entry through international borders are all vital components of our business. If a terrorist attack similar to 9/11 were to occur, our business could be disproportionately impacted because of the disruption a terrorist attack causes on these vital components. We intend to continue to expand our global footprint in order to meet our clients' needs. This may involve expanding into countries beyond those in which we currently operate. We may involve expanding into less developed countries, which may have less political, social or economic stability and less developed infrastructure and legal systems. As we expand our business into new countries, regulatory, personnel, technological and other difficulties may increase our expenses or delay our ability to start up operations or become profitable in such countries. This may affect our relationships with our clients and could have an adverse affect on our business. We operate in a number of international areas which exposes us to significant foreign currency exchange rate risk. We have significant international revenue, which is generally collected in local currency. We currently do not hold or issue forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments for hedging or speculative purposes. The percentage of total revenues generated outside the Americas increased from 22% in 2004 to 42% in 2009. It is expected that our international revenues will continue to grow as European and Asian markets adopt sourcing solutions. The translation of our revenues into U.S. dollars, as well as our costs of operating internationally, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims for substantial damages by our clients arising out of disruptions to their businesses or inadequate service and our insurance coverage may be inadequate. Most of our service contracts with clients contain service level and performance requirements, including requirements relating to the quality of our services. Failure to consistently meet service requirements of a client or errors made by our employees in the course of delivering services to our clients could disrupt the client's business and result in a reduction in revenues or a claim for damages against us. Additionally, we could incur liability if a process we manage for a client were to result in internal control failures or impair our client's ability to comply with our own internal control requirements. Under our service agreements with our clients, our liability for breach of our obligations is generally limited to actual damages suffered by the client and is typically capped at the greater of an agreed amount or the fees paid or payable to us under the relevant agreement. These limitations and caps on liability may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients or liability for breaches of confidentiality, are generally not limited under those agreements. Although we have commercial general liability insurance coverage, the coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage or changes in our insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements) could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could be liable to our clients for damages and subject to liability and our reputation could be damaged if our client data is compromised. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information. We are often required to collect and store sensitive or confidential client data in order to perform the services we provide under our contracts. Many of our contracts do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of our current or former employees, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive data or if we do not adapt to changes in data protection legislation, we could be subject to significant liabilities to our clients or to our clients' customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client data, whether through breach of our processes, systems or otherwise, could also damage our reputation and cause us to lose existing and potential clients. We may also be subject to civil actions and criminal prosecution by government or government agencies for breaches relating to such data. Our insurance coverage for breaches or mismanagement of such data may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us. Client restrictions on the use of client data could adversely affect our activities. The majority of the data we use to populate our databases comes from our client engagements. The insight sought by clients from us relates to the contractual data and terms, including pricing and costs, to which we have access in the course of assisting our clients in the negotiation of our sourcing agreements. Data is obtained through the course of our engagements with clients who agree to contractual provisions permitting us to consolidate and utilize on an aggregate basis such information. If we were unable to utilize key data from previous client engagements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to maintain the equity in our brand name. We have operated under the brand "TPI" for several years and have legally registered trademarks in certain appropriate jurisdictions. There are other entities providing advisory and similar technology-related services that use "Technology Partners" as, or as part of, their names. There can be no assurance that the resulting confusion and lack of brand-recognition in the marketplace created by this situation will not adversely affect our business. Nevertheless, we believe that our "TPI" brand, including our independence, is critical to our efforts to attract and retain clients and staff and that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition increases. We may expand our marketing activities to promote and strengthen the TPI brand and may need to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel, expend additional sums to protect the brand and otherwise increase expenditures to create and maintain client brand loyalty. If we fail to effectively promote and maintain the TPI brand or incur excessive expenses in doing so, our future business and operating results could be adversely impacted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 