Risk Factors.” Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events after the date of this report. Overview We are a development stage medical device company focused on the design and development of devices that use neuroblocking technology to treat obesity, its associated co-morbidities, and other gastrointestinal disorders. Our proprietary neuroblocking technology, which we refer to as VBLOC therapy, is designed to intermittently block the vagus nerve using high-frequency, low-energy, electrical impulses. The vagus nerve controls much of the activity of the stomach, intestines and pancreas and plays a role in food processing. Our initial product under development is the Maestro System, which uses VBLOC therapy to limit the expansion of the stomach, help control hunger sensations between meals, reduce the frequency and intensity of stomach contractions and produce a feeling of early and prolonged fullness. Based on our understanding of vagal nerve function and nerve blocking from our preclinical studies and the results of our initial clinical trials, we believe the Maestro System may offer obese patients a minimally-invasive treatment alternative that has the potential to result in significant and sustained weight loss. In addition, data from sub-group analyses demonstrate that VBLOC therapy may hold promise in improving the obesity-related co-morbidities of diabetes and hypertension, independent of, and prior to, substantial weight loss. We are conducting, or plan to conduct, feasibility studies in each of these co-morbidities to assess VBLOC therapy’s potential in addressing multiple indications. We are currently evaluating the Maestro System in human clinical trials conducted in the United States, Australia, Mexico, Norway and Switzerland. To date, we have not observed any mortality or any unanticipated adverse device effects in these clinical trials. We have also not observed any long-term problematic clinical side effects in any patients, including in those patients who have been using the Maestro System for more than one year. On October 2, 2009, we announced preliminary results from our pivotal clinical study, the EMPOWER trial; indicating that based on an initial analysis, the study did not meet its primary and secondary efficacy endpoints. We also announced that there were no therapy-related serious adverse events reported during the study. The EMPOWER trial is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, prospective, placebo-controlled pivotal study being conducted in the United States and selected international centers. We further announced on November 12, 2009, the ongoing detailed review suggests that vagal blocking therapy may promote safe and effective weight loss as an adjunct to behavioral support, diet and exercise in morbidly obese patients. The review further suggests that these effects were evident in both the treatment and control arms. We are continuing a comprehensive analysis of all clinical, statistical, and engineering data to understand this finding. Based on the analysis to date, the control arm of the trial, which was intended to be inactive, apparently provided a low-intensity blocking signal that introduced VBLOC therapy in human subjects. In January 2010, we met with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to discuss the EMPOWER trial results and the regulatory process going forward. Based on this discussion, we recently submitted an Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) application for a clinical trial using the next-generation Maestro RC 1 System in the treatment of morbid obesity. Assuming that we obtain an approved IDE, successfully enroll and implant the trial and achieve favorable results, we plan to use data from that trial to support a premarket approval (PMA) application for the Maestro System, which we expect to submit no earlier than the second half of 2012. If the FDA grants us approval, we anticipate we will be able to commercialize the Maestro System in the United States no earlier than the second half of 2013. In the event that the Maestro System receives FDA approval, we expect to recruit and retain personnel responsible for commercial operations, sales and marketing, customer service, reimbursement and technical service in order to support the commercial launch of our product. We will also need to increase production volumes of our products in connection with commercialization. We rely primarily on third-party manufacturers and suppliers to produce our products and will continue to select qualified suppliers and contract manufacturers that can supply products on a commercial scale according to our proprietary specifications. Background—The Obesity Epidemic Obesity has been identified by the U.S. Surgeon General as the fastest growing cause of disease and death in the United States. In 1980, approximately 15% of the adult population in the United States was obese according to National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. By 2005, the incidence of obesity had more than doubled to 33%. Currently, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that there are more than 72 million obese adults in the United States, having a Body Mass Index (BMI) of 30 or higher. BMI is calculated by dividing a person’s weight in kilograms by the square of their height in meters. It is estimated that by 2015, over 40% of American adults could be obese. Obesity is also a significant health problem outside of the United States, with as many as 400 million people worldwide estimated to be obese and 1.6 billion adults estimated to be overweight, according to the World Health Organization. The World Health Organization estimates that by 2015, approximately 2.3 billion adults will be overweight and more than 700 million people worldwide will be obese. The CDC has identified obesity as a leading public health threat in the United States and has estimated that there are approximately 112,000 obesity-related deaths each year in the United States. The World Health Organization has estimated that about 2.5 million deaths worldwide are attributed to people being overweight or obese. According to data from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, almost 80% of adults with a BMI above 30 have an obesity-related disease or disorder, also called a co-morbidity, and almost 40% have two or more of these co-morbidities. According to the North American Association for the Study of Obesity and the CDC, obesity is associated with many significant weight-related co-morbidities including Type 2 diabetes, high blood-pressure, sleep apnea, certain cancers, high cholesterol, coronary artery disease, osteoarthritis and stroke. In addition, a number of disorders involving the central nervous system may also be complicated by obesity, such as anxiety, bipolar disorder, agoraphobia, depression and insomnia. As of 2000, the Department of Health and Human Services estimated the overall economic costs of obesity in the United States to be $117 billion per year. In an abstract sponsored and co-authored by the CDC, it was noted that in 2008 these costs could have risen to $147 billion per year. We believe that the obesity epidemic will continue to grow worldwide given dietary trends in developed nations that favor highly processed sugars, larger meals and fattier foods, as well as increasingly sedentary lifestyles. Despite the growing obesity rate, increasing public interest in the obesity epidemic and significant medical repercussions and economic costs associated with obesity, there continues to be a significant unmet need for more effective treatments. We believe existing options for the treatment of obesity have seen limited adoption to date due to a range of efficacy and potential side effects including morbidity. The principal treatment alternatives available today for obesity include: • Behavioral modification. Behavioral modification, which includes diet and exercise, is an important component in the treatment of obesity; however, most obese patients find it difficult to achieve and maintain significant weight loss with a regimen of diet and exercise alone. • Pharmaceutical therapy. Pharmaceutical therapies often represent a first option in the treatment of obese patients within lower BMI ranges but carry significant safety risks and may present troublesome side effects. 2 • Bariatric surgery. In more severe cases of obesity, patients may pursue more aggressive surgical treatment options such as gastric bypass, sleeve gastrectomy and gastric banding. These procedures promote weight loss by surgically restricting the stomach’s capacity and outlet size. While largely effective, they may present substantial side effects and carry short- and long-term safety risks that have limited their adoption. Given the limitations of behavioral modification, pharmaceutical therapy and bariatric surgical approaches, we believe there is a substantial need for a safer and more effective solution that: • preserves normal anatomy; • is “non-punitive” in that it supports continued ingestion and digestion of foods and micronutrients such as vitamins and minerals found in a typical, healthy diet while allowing the user to modify his or her eating behavior appropriately without inducing punitive physical restrictions that physically force a limitation of food intake; • enables non-invasive adjustability while reducing the need for frequent clinic visits; • minimizes unpleasant side-effects such as persistent vomiting; • minimizes the risks of re-operations, malnutrition and mortality; and • reduces the natural hunger drive of patients. EnteroMedics’ Solution We are designing our Maestro System to address many of the unmet needs of physicians and patients for an effective long-term obesity treatment that minimizes the complications presented by existing alternatives. The Maestro System delivers VBLOC therapy, which we believe is the first therapy of its kind for the treatment of obesity using neuroblocking. VBLOC therapy interrupts nerve signals along the vagus nerve to selectively block the gastrointestinal effects of the vagus nerve, unlike neurostimulation, which attempts to increase neural activity through stimulation to impact the digestive system. The Vagus Nerve and the Digestive System Beginning in the brain, the vagus nerve travels down alongside the esophagus to the stomach and other gastrointestinal organs and is primarily responsible for autonomic regulation involved in heart, lung and gastrointestinal function. The vagus nerve controls much of the activity of the stomach, intestine and pancreas and plays a role in food processing, including: • expansion of the stomach as food enters; • contractions of the stomach to break food into smaller particles; • release of gastric acid required for food processing; • emptying of the stomach contents into the small intestine; • secretion of digestive pancreatic enzymes that enable absorption of calories; and • controlling sensations of hunger, satisfaction and fullness. VBLOC Therapy Several studies of the vagus nerve and its effect on the digestive system have focused on the effects of surgical vagotomy, the permanent severing of the vagus nerve at the level of the junction between the esophagus and the stomach. Given the role of the vagus nerve in regulating the release of gastric acid, early researchers originally used vagotomy as a treatment for peptic ulcers. They discovered that their patients often experienced 3 weight loss or, at a minimum, failure to gain weight following vagotomy. However, weight loss after vagotomy alone has been disappointing, particularly over the long-term and likely dissipates as the body compensates for the anatomical disruption by partial restoration of nervous system function. VBLOC therapy is designed to block the gastrointestinal effects of the vagus nerve by using high-frequency, low-energy electrical impulses to intermittently interrupt naturally occurring neural impulses on the vagus nerve between the brain and the digestive system. Our therapy is designed to control hunger sensations between meals, limit the expansion of the stomach and to reduce the frequency and intensity of stomach contractions. In addition, we believe VBLOC therapy also reduces the absorption of calories by decreasing the secretion of digestive enzymes. The resulting physiologic effects of VBLOC therapy are intended to produce a feeling of early and prolonged fullness following smaller meal portions. By intermittently blocking the vagus nerve and allowing it to return to full function between therapeutic episodes, we believe we have limited the body’s natural tendency to circumvent the therapy, which can result in long-term weight loss. We have designed our Maestro System to address a significant market opportunity that we believe exists for a safe, effective and less-invasive therapy that is intended to address the underlying causes of hunger and obesity. Our Maestro System is designed to offer each of the following benefits, which we believe could lead to the adoption of VBLOC as the therapy of choice for obesity: • Preserves Normal Anatomy. The Maestro neuroblocking pulse generator is designed to deliver therapy that blocks the neural signals that influence a patient’s hunger and sense of fullness without altering digestive system anatomy. Accordingly, patients should experience fewer and less severe side effects compared to treatments that incorporate anatomical alterations. • Allows Continued Ingestion and Digestion of Foods Found in a Typical, Healthy Diet. Because our therapy leaves the digestive anatomy unaltered, we believe that patients will be able to maintain a more consistent nutritional balance compared to existing surgical approaches, thus allowing them to effect positive changes in their eating behavior in a non-forced and potentially more consistent way. • May be Implanted on an Outpatient Basis and Adjusted Non-Invasively. The Maestro System is designed to be laparoscopically implanted in approximately one hour, allowing patients to leave the hospital or clinic on the same day. The implantable system is designed to be turned off and left in place for patients who reach their target weight. When desired, the follow-up physician can simply and non-invasively turn the therapy back on. Alternatively, the implantable system can be removed in a laparoscopic procedure. • Offers Favorable Safety Profile. We have designed our EMPOWER clinical trial to demonstrate the safety of the Maestro System. In our clinical trials to date, including the EMPOWER trial, we have not observed any mortality or any medically serious device related adverse events that have required surgical attention in the patients we have implanted with the Maestro System. We have also not observed any long-term problematic clinical side effects in any patients, including in those patients who have been using the Maestro System for more than one year. • Targets Multiple Factors that Contribute to Hunger and Obesity. We designed VBLOC therapy to target the multiple digestive functions of the vagus nerve and to affect the perception of hunger and fullness, which together contribute to obesity. VBLOC therapy, delivered via our Maestro System, is intended to offer patients what we believe could be an effective, safe, outpatient solution that minimizes complications. We believe that if approved it could enable patients to lose weight and maintain long-term weight loss while enjoying a normal, healthy diet. We also believe that the Maestro System, if approved, will appeal to physicians based on the inherent physiological approach of VBLOC therapy and its anticipated favorable safety profile. 4 Our Strategy Our goal is to establish VBLOC therapy, delivered via our Maestro System pulse generator, as the leading obesity management solution. The key business strategies by which we intend to achieve these objectives include: Achieve Regulatory Approval for VBLOC Therapy Using Our Maestro System. We received an IDE from the FDA for use of the Maestro System in the United States in our EMPOWER trial, and announced on October 2, 2009 that based on an initial analysis, the study did not meet its primary and secondary efficacy endpoints. We further announced on November 12, 2009, the ongoing detailed review suggests that vagal blocking therapy may promote safe and effective weight loss as an adjunct to behavioral support, diet and exercise in morbidly obese patients. The review further suggests that these effects were evident in both the treatment and control arms. We are continuing a comprehensive analysis of all clinical, statistical, and engineering data to understand this finding. Based on the analysis to date, the control arm of the trial, which was intended to be inactive, apparently provided a low-intensity blocking signal that introduced VBLOC therapy in human subjects. After meeting with the FDA in January 2010 to discuss the EMPOWER trial results and the regulatory process going forward, we recently submitted an IDE application for a clinical trial using the next-generation Maestro RC System in the treatment of morbid obesity. Assuming that we obtain an approved IDE, successfully enroll and implant the trial and achieve favorable results, we plan to use data from that trial to pursue a PMA from the FDA to allow us to commence sales in the United States. We have also received the European CE Mark for our Maestro RF System to enable the eventual commercialization of our systems in the European Economic Area. We also plan to use our CE Mark certification to make other international regulatory filings to permit sales in those jurisdictions. Drive the Adoption and Endorsement of VBLOC Therapy Through Obesity Therapy Experts. Our clinical development strategy is to collaborate closely with regulatory bodies, obesity therapy experts and scientific experts. We have established credible and open relationships with obesity therapy experts and scientific experts and we believe these obesity therapy experts and scientific experts will be important in promoting patient awareness and gaining widespread adoption if the Maestro System is approved and commercialized. Commercialize Our Products using a Direct Sales and Marketing Effort. We plan to build a sales force to call directly on key opinion leaders and bariatric surgeons, primarily within bariatric Centers of Excellence. We believe this currently represents approximately 378 facilities within the United States, which we believe will enable us to target them effectively with a small sales force. We expect that our direct sales force will promote the Maestro System to physicians and patients who have concerns with current bariatric surgical procedures. We also plan to call on physicians, weight-management specialists and nurses who influence patient adoption. Identify Appropriate Coding, Obtain Coverage and Payment for the Maestro System. While payors are not our direct customers, their coverage and reimbursement policies influence patient and physician selection of obesity treatment. We plan to employ a focused campaign to obtain payor support for VBLOC therapy. We plan to seek specific and appropriate coding, coverage and payment for our Maestro System from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and from private insurers. Expand and Protect Our Intellectual Property Position. We believe that our issued patents and our patent applications encompass a broad platform of neuromodulation therapies, including vagal blocking and combination therapy focused on obesity and other gastrointestinal disorders. We intend to continue to pursue further intellectual property protection through U.S. and foreign patent applications. Leverage our VBLOC Technology for Other Disease States. We intend to continue to conduct research and development for other potential applications for our VBLOC therapy and believe we have a broad technology platform that will support the development of additional clinical applications and therapies for other gastrointestinal disorders in addition to obesity. 5 The Maestro System, Implantation Procedure and Usage The Maestro System. Our Maestro System pulse generator delivers VBLOC therapy via two small electrodes that are laparoscopically implanted and placed in contact with the trunks of the vagus nerve just above the junction between the esophagus and the stomach, near the diaphragm. We are developing the Maestro System in two different energy configurations, the Maestro RF System and the Maestro RC System. The Maestro RF System is the device currently being used in our EMPOWER trial, which we announced on October 2, 2009 did not meet its primary and secondary efficacy endpoints. The major components of the Maestro System include: • Neuroregulator. The neuroregulator, sometimes referred to as a neuroblocking pulse generator, is an implanted device that controls the delivery of VBLOC therapy to the vagus nerve. It is surgically implanted just below, and parallel to, the skin, typically on the side of the body over the ribs. The neuroregulator emits short, charge-balanced electrical pulses at a high pulse rate that travel down the leads to the electrodes and intermittently block natural nerve signals on the vagus nerve. • Lead system. Our neuroblocking leads are powered by the neuroregulator and deliver electrical pulses to the vagus nerve via the electrodes. The leads and electrodes are similar to those used in traditional cardiac rhythm management and some neurostimulation products, are intended to be implanted and may be removed laparoscopically. • Controller/Mobile charger. Our controller regulates the rate and intensity of the electrical pulses delivered by the neuroregulator and maintains a log of device and treatment changes. In the Maestro RF System, the controller is an external unit. In the Maestro RC System, the external controller is replaced by an external mobile charger and the control logic is contained within the implanted neuroregulator. • Transmit coil. The transmit coil is positioned over the implanted neuroregulator and delivers radiofrequency energy and therapy control information across the skin into the device. The coil is held in position over the neuroregulator using either an adhesive or an adjustable elastic belt worn around the torso. • Clinician programmer. The clinician programmer connects to the controller to enable clinicians to customize therapy settings as necessary and download reports stored in system components. The reports include patient use and system performance information used to manage therapy. The clinician programmer incorporates our proprietary software and is operated with a commercially available laptop computer. The Maestro RF System and the Maestro RC System differ in the following ways: • The neuroblocking pulse generator, or neuroregulator, within the Maestro RF System is powered by a battery in the externally-worn controller, which is connected to the external transmit coil. The transmit coil needs to be properly positioned over the approximately 20 cubic centimeter neuroregulator and worn daily during the patient’s waking hours to deliver therapy. The controller is recharged nightly using AC wall power. • The neuroregulator in the Maestro RC System is powered by an internal rechargeable battery. The RC neuroregulator is approximately 80 cubic centimeters in volume to accommodate its internal battery. An external mobile charger is connected to the external transmit coil to recharge the battery. The mobile charger is recharged using AC wall power. We intend to evaluate each system as part of our clinical trial plan. Implantation Procedure. The Maestro System is designed to be implanted by a bariatric surgeon in approximately one hour during an outpatient procedure that will be typically performed using a short-acting general anesthetic. During the procedure, the surgeon laparoscopically implants the electrodes in contact with the 6 vagal nerve trunks and then connects the lead wires to the neuroregulator. After the electrodes have been attached adjacent to the vagal trunks and connected to the neuroregulator, the surgeon confirms final system operation by sending electrical pulses to the leads by the neuroregulator. Once system operation has been confirmed, the surgeon implants the neuroregulator under the skin and closes all incisions. We believe that patients who are implanted with the Maestro System will be able to return home from the hospital or clinic on the same day. The implantation procedure and usage of the Maestro System carry some risks, such as the risks generally associated with laparoscopic procedure as well as the possibility of device malfunction. In addition, in rare circumstances during implantation, the vagus nerve or esophagus may be damaged causing problems such as difficulty in swallowing, vomiting, heartburn, belching, abdominal fullness or discomfort, diarrhea, or decreased appetite. We expect that any of these problems would be temporary without lasting effects, although there is the risk of permanent injury to the vagus nerve. Some post-operative effects that may occur after implantation of our Maestro System include movement of the leads or neuroregulator from their original positions, erosion or wire breakage and potential allergic reaction with internal or external device contacts. Usage of the Maestro System. The physician activates the Maestro System after an approximate two-week healing period following implantation. VBLOC therapy is then delivered intermittently each day during the patient’s waking hours through the neuroregulator. The scheduled delivery of the intermittent electrical pulses blocking the vagus nerve is customized for each patient by the physician using the clinician programmer and when necessary, therapy can also be easily and non-invasively modified by the physician. The physician determines the duration of the therapy in consultation with the patient based on the patient’s weight loss and overall treatment objectives. Patients using the Maestro RF System can elect to suspend or circumvent therapy at any time by simply not carrying the controller. Without the controller, the RF neuroregulator receives no power and cannot provide therapy. Patients using the Maestro RC System are more limited in their ability to suspend or circumvent therapy because the control logic is embedded in the implanted neuroregulator. The physician is able to download reports to monitor patient use and system performance information. This information is particularly useful to physicians to ensure that patients are properly using the system. Although usage of our Maestro System generally proceeds without complications, as part of the therapy or intentional weight loss, subjects in our clinical trials have observed side-effects such as heartburn, bloating, diarrhea, sweating, nausea, constipation, greasy bowel movements, tiredness and excessive feelings of fullness, especially after meals. In addition, patient noncompliance with wearing the external components of the Maestro RF System may render VBLOC therapy less effective in achieving long-term weight loss. Clinical Development We are developing our Maestro System to deliver VBLOC therapy for the long-term treatment of obesity. Based on our preliminary preclinical and clinical findings, we believe that our Maestro System has the potential to offer a compelling combination of efficacy and safety. We are continuing to evaluate the Maestro System in human clinical studies conducted in the United States and internationally. We announced on October 2, 2009 that based on an initial analysis, our EMPOWER trial did not meet its primary and secondary efficacy endpoints. We also announced that there were no therapy-related serious adverse events reported during the study. After meeting with the FDA in January 2010 to discuss the EMPOWER trial results and the regulatory process going forward, we recently submitted an IDE application for a clinical trial using the next-generation Maestro RC System in the treatment of morbid obesity. Preclinical Experience We have completed several preclinical animal studies, primarily in pigs and rats, to evaluate the safety of our Maestro System and to refine our implantation procedure. These studies have also shown that VBLOC therapy could completely block activated nerve signals, with the nerve regaining normal function within minutes after each intermittent application of therapy. Over a 12-week period of VBLOC therapy, over 91% of all nerve axons showed normal histology and the animals demonstrated unimpaired heart rate, respiration, blood pressure 7 and glucose regulation. Additionally, we observed that VBLOC therapy resulted in a greater than 80% reduction in pancreatic exocrine secretions, which are composed of digestive enzymes, water and bicarbonate that facilitate food digestion and caloric intake. As a result of the findings of our preclinical studies, we were able to refine the implant technique, demonstrate the biocompatibility of our Maestro System in animals and collect the data necessary to begin human clinical trials. Several publications resulting from these preclinical studies were peer-reviewed and accepted for podium presentation at the Digestive Disease Week meeting in 2006, the American Society for Bariatric Surgery meeting in 2006 and the International Federation for Surgery of Obesity meeting in 2006. Clinical Experience We began evaluating VBLOC therapy with our initial Maestro System, the RF1 system, in a clinical trial in February 2006. The next generation RF2 system is distinguished from the RF1 system by an improved user interface, improvements in the energy management within the neuroregulator and a more robust transmission link for delivering energy from the coil to the neuroregulator in the RF2 system. Our early clinical experience has shown that VBLOC therapy using the Maestro System offers physicians a programmable method to selectively and reversibly block the vagus nerve and results in clinically and statistically significant excess weight loss. Excess weight represents the difference between a subject’s actual weight and the subject’s weight assuming a BMI of 25, which is considered healthy. Excess weight loss (EWL) is reported as the percentage of excess weight that is lost by the subject. We have not observed any mortality or any medically serious device related adverse events in any of our completed or ongoing studies. Reported events include those associated with laparoscopic surgery or any implantable electronic device. The effects of VBLOC therapy include changes in appetite, and, in some subjects, effects that may be expected with decreased intra-abdominal vagus nerve activity, such as temporary abdominal discomfort and short episodes of belching, bloating, cramping or nausea. Findings from our clinical feasibility trials have resulted in more than 20 publications peer-reviewed and accepted for presentation between 2006 and 2009 at the following meetings: Digestive Disease Week, American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery, International Federation for Surgery of Obesity, Obesity Surgery Society of Australia & New Zealand and Obesity Society (formerly the North American Association for the Study of Obesity). We used our clinical studies data in a submission to our Notified Body and obtained European CE Mark approval for our Maestro RF System on March 4, 2009. Below is a summary of our planned and ongoing clinical studies. VBLOC-RF2 Trial Enrollment of 38 subjects in the VBLOC-RF2 trial began in November 2006 and is designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the Maestro RF2 System in treating patients with obesity over a period of 60 months. The trial is an international, open-label, prospective, multi-center study. We are implementing weight management programs and plan to evaluate the efficacy of VBLOC therapy by measuring average percentage EWL at one month, three, six and 12 months and possibly longer. We are using results from this trial to further optimize selection of VBLOC therapy parameters. Preliminary data indicate that the RF2 system improvements have resulted in improved therapy delivery and improved weight loss. To date, no deaths or medically serious device related adverse events have been reported during the VBLOC-RF2 trial. As of January 12, 2009, the most recent follow-up of nine RF2 patients, among the earliest patients implanted in the VBLOC-RF2 trial, showed an EWL of 37.6% at 18 months of VBLOC therapy. At that time, the most recent results for the prior follow-up periods demonstrated an EWL of 28.1% in 17 RF2 patients at 12 months and an EWL of 17.9% in 35 RF2 patients at six months of VBLOC therapy. 8 VBLOC-RC Trial We initiated the VBLOC-RC trial in November 2007. The trial is an international feasibility study designed to demonstrate that the clinical performance of the Maestro RC System in five subjects is similar to that of the RF2 system. It is also intended to demonstrate that the subject can effectively recharge the implanted RC device and the physician and staff can perform device programming and operation. We are implementing weight management programs such as diet, behavior modification or exercise programs and plan to evaluate system performance and efficacy by measuring average percentage EWL at one, three and six months. To date, no deaths or medically serious device related adverse events have been reported during the VBLOC-RC trial. VBLOC-DM2 ENABLE Trial Enrollment of the VBLOC-DM2 ENABLE trial began in the second quarter of 2008 and is designed to evaluate the effects of VBLOC therapy on glucose regulation and blood pressure using the Maestro RC2 System in approximately 30 subjects. The trial is an international, open-label, prospective, multi-center study. We plan to evaluate the efficacy of VBLOC therapy by measuring average percentage EWL, HbA1c and FPG and blood pressure at one week, one month, three, six and 12 months and possibly longer. To date, no deaths or medically serious device related adverse events have been reported during the VBLOC-DM2 ENABLE trial and the safety profile is similar to that seen in the other VBLOC trials. As of January 14, 2010 the most recent follow-up of patients shows an average device usage of approximately 14 hours per day and the below data. Change in HbA1c (Baseline 7.7%) Visit (post-device activation) HbA1cChange PercentHbA1c n p(comparedto baseline) Week 1 -0.3 7.4 19 0.0206 Week 4 -0.7 7.0 19 0.0002 Week 12 -0.9 6.8 18 0.0019 6 Months -0.8 6.9 19 0.0062 Percent EWL (BMI Method from Implant) Visit (post-device activation) EWL n p(comparedto baseline) Week 12 23.6 % 18 <0.0001 6 Months 26.4 % 19 <0.0001 Change in Mean Arterial Pressure (MAP) in Hypertensive Subjects in mmHg (Baseline 99.5 mmHg, average) Visit (post-device activation) MAPChange n p(comparedto baseline) Week 1 -7.8 10 0.0102 Week 4 -12.3 10 0.0046 Week 12 -9.9 9 0.0007 6 Months -12.9 10 0.0018 EMPOWER Trial On October 2, 2009, we announced preliminary results from our pivotal clinical study, the EMPOWER trial; indicating that based on an initial analysis, the study did not meet its primary and secondary efficacy endpoints. We also announced that there were no therapy-related serious adverse events reported during the study. The 9 EMPOWER trial is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, prospective, placebo-controlled pivotal study including a maximum of 300 subjects at up to 15 U.S. and international sites. We completed enrollment and implantation of 294 subjects in the EMPOWER trial in 2008. We further announced on November 12, 2009, the ongoing detailed review suggests that vagal blocking therapy may promote safe and effective weight loss as an adjunct to behavioral support, diet and exercise in morbidly obese patients. The review further suggests that these effects were evident in both the treatment and control arms with overall study results showing that for all patients (n=253), the average EWL at 12 months was 16.6% EWL (BMI) from implant (12.1% from initiation, MetLife) for the treatment arm and 16.4% EWL (BMI) from implant (12.0% from initiation, MetLife) for the control arm. We are continuing a comprehensive analysis of all clinical, statistical, and engineering data to understand this finding. Based on the analysis to date, the control arm of the trial, which was intended to be inactive, apparently provided a low-intensity blocking signal that introduced VBLOC therapy in human subjects. It is our belief after continuing to analyze the EMPOWER trial data that there is a direct correlation between weight loss and hours of daily device usage. On January 14, 2010 we announced the below observations and additional data from our ongoing detailed review of the EMPOWER trial. Weight loss corresponded directly to hours of use for patients in the treatment arm. At 12 months, results were as follows: <6 Hours /Day Greater-than or Equalto 6 and <9 Hours/Day Greater-than or Equalto 9 and <12 Hours/Day Greater-than or Equalto 12 Hours/Day Percent EWL (BMI Method) 4.7 % 12.9 % 21.5 % 29.5 % Weight loss corresponded directly to hours of use when both the treatment and control arms are combined. At 12 months, results were as follows: 12 Months from Implant (BMI Method) Greater-than orEqual to 9Hours/Day (n=128) <9Hours/Day(n=125) p Subjects Achieving Greater-than or Equal to 25% EWL 39.1 % 12.0 % <0.0001 Average Daily Use in Subjects 11.2 hrs 7.7 hrs <0.0001 The purpose of the EMPOWER trial was to measure the safety and efficacy of our Maestro System in obese subjects after 12 months of VBLOC therapy. After all subjects completed 12 months of follow up, the trial was unblinded and all subjects, including those in the control group, had the option to receive ongoing VBLOC therapy. Subjects will continue to be followed out to 60 months as part of the trial and we will continue to monitor average percentage EWL and safety during this extended period. Next Generation Maestro RC System Trial In January 2010, we met with the FDA to discuss the EMPOWER trial results and the regulatory process going forward. Based on this discussion, we recently submitted an IDE application for a clinical trial using the next-generation Maestro RC System in the treatment of morbid obesity. Assuming that we obtain an approved IDE, successfully enroll and implant the trial and achieve favorable results, we plan to use data from that trial to support a PMA application for the Maestro System, which we expect to submit no earlier than the second half of 2012. If the FDA grants us approval, we anticipate we will be able to commercialize the Maestro System in the United States no earlier than the second half of 2013. 10 Research and Development We have an experienced research and development team, including clinical, regulatory affairs and quality, comprised of scientists, electrical engineers, software engineers and mechanical engineers with significant clinical knowledge and expertise. Our research and development efforts are focused in the following major areas: • identifying the effect of vagal blocking on nerve and organ function; • developing the Maestro System; and • investigating the Maestro platform for gastrointestinal disorders in addition to obesity. We have spent a significant portion of our capital resources on research and development. Our research and development expenses were $15.6 million in 2009, $27.7 million in 2008 and $21.1 million in 2007. Our research and development expenditures in 2010 and beyond will largely depend on our regulatory path forward. If the FDA grants us approval on an IDE application for a clinical trial using the next-generation Maestro RC System in the treatment of morbid obesity we would expect research and development expenditures to increase in support of a new clinical trial in addition to the continued follow-up on existing trials, such as VBLOC-DM2 ENABLE and EMPOWER. Other Diseases and Disorders We believe that our VBLOC therapy may have the potential, if validated through appropriate clinical studies, to treat a number of additional gastrointestinal disorders or co-morbidities frequently associated with obesity, including the following: • Type 2 Diabetes. Metabolic syndrome refers to a group of risk factors for cardiovascular disease and Type 2 diabetes mellitus and affects an estimated 50 million people in the United States. We believe that VBLOC therapy has significant potential in treating metabolic syndrome. We have launched an international feasibility trial, VBLOC-DM2 ENABLE, to further explore the efficacy of VBLOC therapy in this patient population and have reported preliminary findings in the “Clinical Development” section above. • Hypertension. Blood pressure normally rises and falls throughout the day. When it consistently stays too high for too long, it is called hypertension. It is estimated that one out of three American adults has high blood pressure or hypertension. We believe that VBLOC therapy may improve mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure in hypertensive patients. We have included an evaluation of the blood pressure effects of VBLOC therapy in our international feasibility trial, VBLOC-DM2 ENABLE, to further explore the efficacy of VBLOC therapy in this patient population and have reported preliminary findings in the “Clinical Development” section above. • Pancreatitis. Primary and recurrent cases of acute pancreatitis are estimated to number from 150,000 to 200,000 annually, resulting in approximately 80,000 hospital admissions each year in the United States. In animal and human studies, we have shown that VBLOC therapy suppresses pancreatic exocrine secretion, suggesting its potential efficacy in treating pancreatitis. • Other Gastrointestinal Disorders. We believe that VBLOC therapy may have potential in a number of other gastrointestinal disorders, including irritable bowel syndrome and inflammatory bowel disease. Mayo Clinic Relationship Our research and development team works with clinicians from Mayo Clinic Rochester, Minnesota pursuant to exclusive know-how, license, and consulting agreements. Mayo clinicians with multiple specialties such as bariatric surgery, gastroenterology and laparoscopic surgery consult with our research and development team on an exclusive basis to advise us as we develop our devices for vagal blocking therapy to treat obesity. Specifically, Mayo clinicians, along with other of our consultants, have offered their expertise to advise us with regard to our clinical trials and surgical techniques for our implantation procedure and participate on our medical advisory board and therapeutic algorithm panel. The agreements with Mayo Clinic also include a similar collaboration for 11 the development of products to address a wide variety of disorders susceptible to treatment by electrically blocking neural impulses on the vagus nerve. We retain the exclusive rights to obesity-related device inventions developed through this collaboration. We have also licensed-in two obesity-related patent applications from Mayo Clinic. These patent applications cover a number of medical device concepts for treating obesity, all of which are unrelated to our VBLOC technology. The five-year agreement entered into with the Mayo Clinic in 2005 was extended for two additional years effective February 3, 2010. Medical Advisors In addition to our collaboration with Mayo Clinic, we also have medical advisors who provide strategic guidance to our development programs, consult with us on clinical investigational plans and individual study protocols, and advise on clinical investigational site selection. Members of our medical advisory group also: • serve on our Data Safety Monitoring Board and Clinical Events Committee; • meet with governmental regulatory authorities; • provide consultation on professional meeting presentations and journal manuscript submissions; and • develop and participate in clinical site training programs, including study surgical technique training and study subject follow-up training. Sales and Marketing We currently do not have a sales organization and have no experience as a company in the marketing, sale or distribution of our proposed products. In the event that the Maestro System receives FDA approval, we expect to recruit and retain personnel responsible for commercial operations, sales and marketing, customer service, reimbursement and technical service in order to support the commercial launch of our product. Finally, we expect that account management and patient registration processes used during the clinical trial will be transitioned to commercial registration structure. Centers responsible for implanting our product will be expanded, and trained to perform the patient selection, implant and manage appropriate follow-up procedures. Initially, we anticipate that our sales representatives will exclusively target selected bariatric surgery Centers of Excellence and nationally recognized bariatric surgery centers. To be approved as a bariatric surgery Center of Excellence, a surgery center needs to perform a minimum of 125 bariatric surgical procedures per year. As of December 31, 2009, there were approximately 378 bariatric surgery Centers of Excellence approved by the Surgical Review Corporation and 75 Level I Centers of Excellence approved by the American College of Surgeons. In addition we expect to market our products to a small number of nationally-recognized hospitals that do not intend to pursue the Center of Excellence certification. We plan to support our sales representatives with field clinical experts who will be responsible for training and support at various implant centers. We also expect that our sales representatives will spend time implementing joint consumer marketing programs with surgical centers and implanting surgeons. We also intend to market to potential referral source clinicians such as general practitioners, internists, endocrinologists and nurses. The primary focus of our sales efforts will be in the United States. Outside of the United States, we may sell and support our products either through direct sales or medical device distributors. We plan to target countries with reasonable regulatory and reimbursement barriers and a population interested in managing their obesity. Each country we target will require specific regulatory approval from the local government or agency. In some situations, we may be able to rely on FDA approval, European CE Mark or ISO quality certificates to satisfy local regulatory requirements. 12 To achieve commercial success for any product that receives regulatory approval, we must either develop a sales organization or enter into arrangements with others to sell our products. Developing a direct sales force can be expensive and time consuming and can delay the success of any product launch. Any sales force we develop will likely be competing against the experienced and well-funded sales and marketing operations of our competitors. Competition We compete primarily in the market for obesity treatment with surgical obesity procedures and various devices used to implement neurostimulation and gastric stimulation systems. We also compete with pharmaceutical therapies. The market for obesity treatments is intensely competitive, subject to rapid technological change and significantly affected by new product development. Although we expect to compete in the market for gastric stimulation systems and other neurotechnology devices that treat obesity, there are currently no FDA-approved neuromodulation or neuroblocking therapies for the treatment of obesity. We believe we are the first and only company currently pursuing neuroblocking therapy for the treatment of obesity. We also compete against the manufacturers of pharmaceuticals that are directed at treating obesity. We are aware of two drugs that are approved for long-term treatment of obesity in the United States: Sibutramine, marketed by Abbott Labs as Meridia, and Orlistat, marketed by Roche as Xenical and GlaxoSmithKline as alli. In addition, numerous pharmaceutical companies are working on additional drug therapies that may prove effective in addressing obesity. We compete with several private early-stage companies developing neurostimulation devices for application to the gastric region and related nerves for the treatment of obesity. These companies may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. They also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and subject registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. In addition, there are many larger potential competitors experimenting in the field of neurostimulation to treat various diseases and disorders. For example, Medtronic, which develops deep brain stimulators and spinal cord stimulators, acquired TransNeuronix, which sought to treat obesity by stimulating the smooth muscle of the stomach wall and nearby tissue. St. Jude Medical, through its acquisition of Advanced Neuromodulation Systems, is developing spinal cord stimulators. Cyberonics is developing vagus nerve stimulators to modulate epileptic seizures and other neurological disorders. Boston Scientific, through its Advanced Bionics division, is developing neurostimulation devices such as spinal cord stimulators and cochlear implants. Ethicon-Endo Surgery acquired Cyberonics’ patents and patent applications pertaining to vagus nerve stimulation for the treatment of obesity and two related co-morbidities, diabetes and hypertension, in overweight patients. In addition to competition from developers of neurostimulation and gastric modulation systems, we expect our Maestro System will also compete with surgical obesity procedures, including gastric bypass, gastric banding, vertical-banded gastroplasty and biliopancreatic diversion. The leader in the field of gastric banding is Allergan, whose Lap-Band received FDA approval for marketing in 2001. Allergan also recently acquired EndoArt, a European band company that has developed the EasyBand, which uses RF telemetry to adjust the gastric band. Additionally, we are aware that Johnson & Johnson received approval on September 28, 2007 of their gastric band product known as the Realize Adjustable Gastric Band. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include: • acceptance by healthcare professionals, patients and payors; • published rates of safety and efficacy; • reliability and high quality performance; 13 • effectiveness at controlling co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension; • invasiveness and the inherent reversibility of the procedure or device; • cost and average selling price of products and relative rates of reimbursement; • effective marketing, education, sales and distribution; • regulatory and reimbursement expertise; • technological leadership and superiority; and • speed of product innovation and time to market. Many of our competitors are either publicly-traded or are divisions of publicly-traded companies, and they enjoy several competitive advantages over us, including: • significantly greater name recognition; • established relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors; • established distribution networks; • greater experience in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, obtaining reimbursement and marketing approved products; and • greater financial and human resources. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies or their products. Third-party Coverage and Reimbursement We plan to set a market price for the Maestro System in the United States that is comparable to other high-end, active implantable devices such as implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs), neurostimulation devices for chronic pain, and cochlear implant systems. We expect that the procedure will be performed in the outpatient setting. We believe that establishing appropriate third-party coverage for the therapy should be achievable as important structural elements are already in place. Physician claims for payment use Current Procedural Terminology, Fourth Edition (CPT) billing codes to describe procedures and services performed. Currently, there are established CPT codes for the implantation of cranial nerve pulse generators and related leads, and we expect providers may seek payment for our therapy based on these codes. With respect to possible usage of our product in the hospital inpatient setting, hospital inpatient billing is referenced by International Classifications of Diseases, 9th Revision, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM) procedure codes. There is an existing ICD-9-CM diagnosis code for morbid obesity and our studies are intended to provide the necessary outcomes data to link appropriate billing codes with the ICD-9 diagnosis code for morbid obesity. Our clinical trial data substantiating VBLOC therapy will also be used to seek coverage of VBLOC therapy for patients with morbid obesity and appropriate reimbursement for surgeons and hospitals under the codes already in place. CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicare program, has issued a national coverage determination for several specific types of bariatric surgery, which we view as positive, potential precedent and guidance to factors that CMS might use in deciding to cover our therapy. The policy indicates that Medicare will cover these bariatric surgical procedures when they are performed in an approved Bariatric Center of Excellence by a bariatric surgeon who also meets established requirements. Subjects with a BMI greater than or equal to 35, at least one obesity-related disease or disorder and who were previously unsuccessful with medical treatment for obesity are considered eligible. However, the policy reiterates that treatments for obesity alone are not covered, 14 because such treatments are not considered reasonable and necessary. Although Medicare policies are often emulated or adopted by other third-party payors, other governmental and private insurance coverage currently varies by carrier and geographic location. We intend to actively work with major insurance carriers as well as CMS to obtain coverage for procedures using our product. Other manufacturers of neurostimulator devices for a variety of indications have been successful in securing third-party coverage and reimbursement for use of their devices after early commercialization. We will actively pursue all similar opportunities to secure appropriate payment for our device. Intellectual Property Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent protection for our products and processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing or violating the proprietary rights of third parties. To date, we have nine issued U.S. patents, seven of which pertain to treating gastrointestinal disorders and we believe provide us with broad intellectual property protection covering electrically-induced vagal blocking and for treating obesity. Material among these are our U.S. Patent No. 7,167,750, U.S. Patent No. 7,489,969, US Patent No. 7,613,515, US Patent No. 7,444,183 and US Patent No. 7,672,727. Assuming timely payment of maintenance fees as they become due, these patents will expire in 2023. We also have 22 U.S. patent applications, four pending international patent applications (PCT) and fourteen national stage patent applications (including seven European applications) in foreign jurisdictions. These applications primarily pertain to our vagal blocking technology and its application to obesity as well as other gastrointestinal disorders. In addition to our patents and applications, we have a license agreement with Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research for two pending U.S. patent applications on medical device obesity treatments, which are unrelated to our VBLOC therapy. We also register the trademarks and trade names through which we conduct our business. To date, in the United States we have registered trademarks for VBLOC, ENTEROMEDICS and MAESTRO each registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, and have received a Notice of Allowance and third extension of time to file a Statement of Use on our application to register the mark EMPOWER. In addition, the marks VBLOC, MAESTRO and ENTEROMEDICS are the subject of either a trademark registration or application for registration in Australia, Brazil, China, Mexico, the European Community, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Switzerland. This Form 10-K contains other trade names and trademarks and service marks of EnteroMedics and of other companies. We may file additional trademark applications from time to time as deemed appropriate by management. We are dedicated to continuing our patent activity to ensure that our patent portfolio remains reflective of our intellectual property development. New developments and modifications of prior developments are periodically reviewed to identify necessary additions and modifications to our patent portfolio. In addition to our patents, we rely on confidentiality and proprietary information agreements to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. These confidentiality and proprietary information agreements generally provide that all confidential information developed or made known to individuals by us during the course of their relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties, except in specific circumstances. The agreements also provide for ownership of inventions conceived during the course of such agreements. If our proprietary information is shared or our confidentiality agreements are breached, we may not have adequate remedies, or our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or independently developed by competitors. Manufacturers and Suppliers We have designed and developed all of the elements of our Maestro System, except for the clinician programmer hardware, which uses a commercially available laptop computer. To date, all of the materials and components of the system used in our clinical trials are procured from qualified suppliers and contract 15 manufacturers in accordance with our proprietary specifications. We use third parties to manufacture our Maestro System to minimize our capital investment, help control costs and take advantage of the expertise these third parties have in the large-scale production of medical devices. We do not currently plan to manufacture our Maestro System ourselves. All of our key manufacturers and suppliers have experience working with commercial implantable device systems, are ISO certified and are regularly audited by us. Our key manufacturers and suppliers have a demonstrated record of compliance with international regulatory requirements. In the event that the Maestro System receives FDA approval, we expect to increase our production volume by a significant amount. Given that we rely primarily on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for the production of our products, our ability to increase production will depend upon the experience, certification levels and large scale production capabilities of our suppliers and manufacturers. Qualified suppliers and contract manufacturers have been and will continue to be selected to supply products on a commercial scale according to our proprietary specifications. We also intend to increase our inventory levels to support commercial forecasts as we expand our implanting centers. Our FDA approval process requires us to name and obtain approval for the suppliers of key components of our Maestro System. Many of our parts are custom designed and in certain instances, are obtained through long-term supply arrangements that are exclusive. Due to these factors, we may not be able to quickly qualify and establish additional or replacement suppliers for the components of our Maestro System. A delay in the approval process with the FDA for our Maestro System as a result of the need to qualify or obtain alternate vendors for any of our components would delay our ability to sell and market the Maestro System and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our current manufacturing and supply arrangements will be adequate to continue our ongoing and planned clinical trials. In order to produce the Maestro System in the quantities we anticipate to meet future market demand, we will need our manufacturers and suppliers to increase, or scale up, manufacturing production and supply arrangements by a significant factor over the current level of production. There are technical challenges to scaling up manufacturing capacity and developing commercial-scale manufacturing facilities that may require the investment of substantial additional funds by our manufacturers and suppliers and hiring and retaining additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary experience. If our manufacturers or suppliers are unable to do so, we may not be able to meet the requirements for the launch of the product or to meet future demand, if at all. We may also represent only a small portion of our suppliers’ or manufacturers’ business and if they become capacity constrained they may choose to allocate their available resources to other customers that represent a larger portion of their business. We currently anticipate that we will continue to rely on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for the production of the Maestro System following commercialization. If we develop and obtain regulatory approval for our product and are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of our product, our revenue, business and financial prospects would be adversely affected. Government Regulations United States Our Maestro System is regulated by the FDA as a medical device under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) and the regulations promulgated under the FFDCA. Pursuant to the FFDCA, the FDA regulates the research, design, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, advertising, sales and distribution, post-market adverse event reporting, production and advertising and promotion of medical devices in the United States. Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, failure of the government to grant premarket approval for devices and criminal prosecution. Medical devices are classified into one of three classes, Class I, II or III, on the basis of the amount of risk and the controls deemed by the FDA to be necessary to reasonably ensure their safety and effectiveness. Class I, low risk, devices are subject to general controls (e.g., labeling and adherence to good manufacturing practices 16 (GMPs)). Class II, intermediate risk, devices are subject to general controls and to special controls (e.g., performance standards, and premarket notification). Generally, Class III devices are those which must receive premarket approval by the FDA to ensure their safety and effectiveness (e.g., life-sustaining, life-supporting and implantable devices, or new devices which have not been found substantially equivalent to legally marketed devices), and require clinical testing to ensure safety and effectiveness and FDA approval prior to marketing and distribution. The FDA also has the authority to require clinical testing of Class II devices. In both the United States and certain international markets, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives and changes, such as the Modernization Act, which could and have altered the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our medical devices profitably. Recent, widely-publicized events concerning the safety of certain drug, food and medical device products have raised concerns among members of Congress, medical professionals, and the public regarding the FDA’s handling of these events and its perceived lack of oversight over regulated products. The increased attention to safety and oversight issues could result in a more cautious approach by the FDA to device clearances and approvals, as well as post- market compliance, which could prevent, delay clearance or approval of our new products or product modifications, or require us to expend additional resources on post-market studies and controls. The FFCDA provides two basic review procedures for medical devices. Certain products may qualify for a submission authorized by Section 510(k) of the FFCDA, where the manufacturer submits to the FDA a premarket notification of the manufacturer’s intention to commence marketing the product. The manufacturer must, among other things, establish that the product to be marketed is substantially equivalent to another legally marketed product. Marketing may commence when the FDA issues a letter finding substantial equivalence. If a medical device does not qualify for the 510(k) procedure, the manufacturer must file a premarket approval (PMA) application with the FDA. This procedure requires more extensive pre-filing clinical and preclinical testing than the 510(k) procedure and involves a significantly longer FDA review process. Premarket Approval Our product will require prior premarket approval from the FDA. Because our Maestro System is an implanted device, it is deemed to pose a significant risk. To market the Maestro System in the United States, the FDA must approve the device after submission of a PMA. The FDA can also impose restrictions on the sale, distribution or use of devices at the time of their clearance or approval, or subsequent to marketing. The process of obtaining premarket approval is costly, lengthy and uncertain. A PMA must be supported by extensive data including, but not limited to, technical, pre-clinical and clinical trials to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the device. Among other information, the PMA must also contain a full description of the device and its components, a full description of the methods, facilities and controls used for manufacturing, and proposed device labeling. If the FDA determines that a PMA is complete, the FDA accepts the application and begins an in-depth review of the submitted information. The FDA, by statute and regulation, has 180 days to review an accepted PMA application, although the review and response activities generally occur over a significantly longer period of time, typically one year, and can take up to several years. During this review period, the FDA may request additional information or clarification of information already provided. Also during the review period, an advisory panel of experts from outside the FDA may be convened to review and evaluate the application and provide recommendations to the FDA as to the approvability of the device. In addition, the FDA will conduct a pre-approval inspection of our, and our manufacturers’, facilities to evaluate compliance with the quality system regulation. Under the Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act of 2002, the fee to submit a PMA can be up to $259,600 per PMA, however, we have qualified for a small business exemption. If the FDA’s evaluation of the PMA is favorable, the PMA is approved, and the device may be marketed in the United States. The FDA may approve the PMA with post-approval conditions intended to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device. Failure to comply with the conditions of approval can result in material adverse enforcement action, including the loss or withdrawal of the approval. Even after approval of a PMA, new PMAs or supplemental PMAs are required for significant modifications to the manufacturing process, labeling, use and design of a device that is 17 approved through the premarket approval process. Premarket approval supplements often require submission of the same type of information as a PMA except that the supplement is limited to information needed to support any changes from the device covered by the original PMA. Clinical Trials A clinical trial is almost always required to support a PMA. Clinical trials for a “significant risk” device such as ours require submission of an application for an IDE, to the FDA. The IDE application must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory testing results, showing that it is safe to test the device in humans and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. Clinical trials for a significant risk device may begin once the IDE application is allowed to proceed by the FDA and the institutional review boards overseeing the clinical trial at the various investigational sites. Clinical trials require extensive recordkeeping and detailed reporting requirements. Our clinical trials must be conducted under the oversight of an institutional review board at the relevant clinical trial site and in accordance with applicable regulations and policies including, but not limited to, the FDA’s good clinical practice (GCP) requirements. We, the trial data safety monitoring board, the FDA or the institutional review board at each site at which a clinical trial is being performed may suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the risks to study subjects outweigh the anticipated benefits. Pervasive and Continuing FDA Regulation Both before and after FDA approval, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include: • quality system regulation, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation, complaint handling and other quality assurance procedures during the design and manufacturing processes; • regulations which govern product labels and labeling, prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses and impose other restrictions on labeling and promotional activities; • medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; and • notices of correction or removal and recall regulations. Advertising and promotion of medical devices are also regulated by the Federal Trade Commission and by state regulatory and enforcement authorities. Recently, some promotional activities for FDA-regulated products have resulted in enforcement actions brought under healthcare reimbursement laws and consumer protection statutes. In addition, under the federal Lanham Act, competitors and others can initiate litigation relating to advertising claims. Compliance with regulatory requirements is enforced through periodic, unannounced facility inspections by the FDA. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: • warning letters or untitled letters; • fines, injunction and civil penalties; • recall or seizure of our products; • customer notification, or orders for repair, replacement or refund; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production or clinical trials; 18 • refusing our request for premarket approval of new products; • withdrawing premarket approvals that are already granted; and • criminal prosecution. International International sales of medical devices are subject to foreign government regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain approval by a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and the requirements may differ. The primary regulatory environment in Europe is that of the European Economic Community (EEC), which consists of 25 countries encompassing nearly all the major countries in Europe. Other countries that are not part of the EEC, such as Switzerland, have voluntarily adopted laws and regulations that mirror those of the EEC with respect to medical devices. The EEC has adopted Directive 90/385/EEC for active implantable medical devices and numerous standards that govern and harmonize the national laws and standards regulating the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling and adverse event reporting for medical devices that are marketed in member states. Medical devices that comply with the requirements of the national law of the member state in which they are first marketed will be entitled to bear CE marking, indicating that the device conforms to applicable regulatory requirements, and, accordingly, can be commercially marketed within EEC states and other countries that recognize this mark for regulatory purposes. We obtained European CE Mark approval for our Maestro RF System on March 4, 2009. The method of assessing conformity with applicable regulatory requirements varies depending on the class of the device, but for our Maestro System (which falls into Class III), the method involved a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer of the safety and performance of the device, and a third-party assessment by a Notified Body, usually of the design of the device and of the manufacturer’s quality system. A Notified Body is a private commercial entity that is designated by the national government of a member state as being competent to make independent judgments about whether a product complies with applicable regulatory requirements. The manufacturer’s assessment included a clinical evaluation of the conformity of the device with applicable regulatory requirements. We used KEMA in the Netherlands as the Notified Body for our CE marking approval process. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had a total of 34 employees. All of these employees are located in the United States. From time to time we also employ independent contractors, consultants and temporary employees to support our operations. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We have never experienced a work stoppage and believe that our relations with our employees are good. Executive Officers Our executive officers are as follows: Name Age Position Mark B. Knudson, Ph.D. 61 President, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Director Greg S. Lea 57 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Adrianus (Jos) Donders 56 Senior Vice President of Operations Daniel L. Cohen 51 Senior Vice President of Government Relations and Health Policy Katherine S. Tweden, Ph.D. 49 Vice President of Research and Clinical 19 Mark B. Knudson, Ph.D. has served as our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the board since December 2002. Dr. Knudson also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Venturi Group, LLC and Venturi Development, Inc., positions he held from 1999 and 2001 until their dissolutions in 2008 and 2009, respectively. Dr. Knudson served as Chairman of the board of Restore Medical, Inc., a publicly-held medical device company focused on the treatment of sleep disordered breathing, from 1999 through July 2008 when it was acquired by Medtronic, Inc. Dr. Knudson was also a member of the audit committee of Restore Medical. Dr. Knudson received a Bachelor of Science in biology from Pacific Lutheran University and a Ph.D. in physiology from Washington State University. Greg S. Lea has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 21, 2007. Prior to joining us, Mr. Lea served as Chief Financial Officer of Pemstar Inc. from July 2002 through January 2007 when it was acquired by Benchmark Electronics, Inc. Mr. Lea also served as a director of Pemstar from April 2001 through January 2007 and held the position of Corporate Controller from April 2002 through July 2002. From 1993 to April 2002, Mr. Lea served as a corporate Vice President for Jostens Corporation, a commemorative and affiliation products manufacturer, serving most recently as corporate Vice President-Business Ventures. Prior to that, Mr. Lea held several financial management and administrative positions at IBM Corporation from 1974 to 1993 and was President and a director of the Ability Building Center, Inc. from 1981 to 1993. Mr. Lea holds a B.S. in Accounting/Business Management from Minnesota State University, Mankato. Adrianus (Jos) Donders has served as our Senior Vice President of Operations since April 2005. From September 2003 to April 2005, Mr. Donders was Director Communication Systems Engineering for Medtronic USA. From June 2000 to August 2003, Mr. Donders served as Director Clinical Study Management and Research and Development Europe for Medtronic Europe. Mr. Donders received a degree equivalent to a Masters of Electrical Engineering from the Institute of Technology Eindhoven Netherlands. Daniel L. Cohen has served as our Senior Vice President of Government Relations and Health Policy since September 2009. Mr. Cohen worked as a consultant for the company from March 2009 to September 2009. Prior to joining EnteroMedics, Mr. Cohen served as Senior Vice President for Government Relations and Public Policy with US Oncology. He also served as a consultant with Inamed Corporation, a division of the Allergan Corporation, from 2001 to 2003, when he joined the company as Vice President Global, Corporate and Government Affairs, and again after the Allergan acquisition in 2006 through 2008. Mr. Cohen has experience as a Principal in a full-service government affairs firm, has served on the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC), held staff positions with Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and managed political campaigns of all levels. Mr. Cohen holds a Master of Arts in Liberal Studies/International Affairs from Georgetown University and a Bachelor of Science Degree from Willamette University. Katherine S. Tweden, Ph.D. has served as our Vice President of Research since January 2003 and Vice President of Clinical since September 2008. From November 2002 to January 2003, Dr. Tweden was a consultant to Venturi Group, a medical device incubator company. From January 2003 through August 2004, Dr. Tweden worked for Venturi Development Inc. as a consultant to us. From July 1997 to October 2002, Dr. Tweden held positions including Director of Research and Vice President of Research for HeartStent Corporation. From September 1990 to June 1997, Dr. Tweden held the positions of Sr. Research Scientist and Principal Research Scientist at St Jude Medical, Inc. Dr. Tweden received a Bachelor of Arts in chemistry from Gustavus Adolphus College and a Masters degree and Ph.D. in biomedical engineering from Iowa State University. Our Corporate Information We were incorporated in Minnesota in December 2002 under the name Beta Medical, Inc. In 2003, we changed our name to EnteroMedics Inc. and in 2004 we reincorporated in Delaware. We file reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy or information statements. Those reports and statements as well as all amendments to those documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 20 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (1) are available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549, (2) may be obtained by sending an electronic message to the SEC at publicinfo@sec.gov or by sending a fax to the SEC at 1-202-777-1027, (3) are available at the SEC’s internet site (http://www.sec.gov), which contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC and (4) are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing with, or furnishing to, the SEC. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our principal executive offices are located at 2800 Patton Road, St. Paul, Minnesota 55113, and our telephone number is (651) 634-3003. Our website address is www.enteromedics.com. The information on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 21 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business and Industry We are a development stage company with a limited history of operations and no approved products, and we cannot assure you that we will ever have a commercialized product. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business. We currently do not have any products cleared or approved for commercialization or any other source of revenue, and we do not expect to have a commercialized product earlier than the second half of 2013. We have been engaged in research and development since our inception in 2002 and have invested substantially all of our time and resources in developing our VBLOC therapy, which we intend to commercialize initially in the form of our Maestro System. The success of our business will depend on our ability to obtain regulatory approval to market our Maestro System and any products we may develop in the future and our ability to create product sales, successfully introduce new products, establish our sales force and control costs, all of which we may be unable to do. If we are unable to successfully develop, receive regulatory approval for and commercialize our Maestro System for its indicated use, we may never generate revenue or be profitable and we may have to cease operations. Our lack of a significant operating history also limits your ability to make a comparative evaluation of us, our products and our prospects. We have incurred losses since inception and we anticipate that we will continue to incur increasing losses for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to raise additional capital in the second half of 2010, we may be unable to continue as a going concern. We have incurred losses in each year since our formation in 2002. As of December 31, 2009, we had a deficit accumulated during the development stage of $133.2 million. Our net losses applicable to common stockholders for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $31.9 million, $37.9 million and $28.6 million, respectively. We have funded our operations to date principally from the sale of our securities and through the issuance of indebtedness. Development of a new medical device, including conducting clinical trials and seeking regulatory approvals, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. If our Maestro System is approved for marketing by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) we expect to incur significant sales and marketing expenses prior to recording sufficient revenue to offset these expenses. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase as we continue to add the infrastructure necessary to support operating as a public company and develop our intellectual property portfolio. For these reasons, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the next several years. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing new medical devices, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. Without additional capital, we may run out of cash in the second half of 2010, which has raised a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have prepared our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities and other commitments in the normal course of business. The funding of our operations beyond the second half of 2010 will require additional investments in our company in the form of equity or debt financing or through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient capital to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to comply with the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock could be delisted, which could affect its market price and liquidity and reduce our ability to raise capital. We are required to meet certain qualitative and financial tests (including a minimum closing bid price for our common stock of $1.00 per share) to maintain the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market. On November 13, 2009, we received a notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market advising that for the 22 prior 30 consecutive business days, the minimum closing bid price of our listed securities had been below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). In anticipation of not regaining compliance with two other continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market prior to the expiration of their grace periods, we requested and were approved to transfer to the NASDAQ Capital Market, effective January 22, 2010. In connection with this transfer, we have been afforded the balance of our 180 calendar day grace period, until May 12, 2010, to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price rule by having our stock price close at or above $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. If we are unable to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price rule or are unable to maintain compliance with the other continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market within specified periods and subject to permitted extensions, our common stock may be recommended for delisting (subject to any appeal we would file). If our common stock were delisted, it could be more difficult to buy or sell our common stock and to obtain accurate quotations, and the price of our stock could suffer a material decline. Delisting would also impair our ability to raise capital. We have not received, and may never receive, approval from the FDA or the regulatory body in any other country to market our Maestro System for the treatment of obesity. We do not have the necessary regulatory approvals to market our Maestro System in the United States or in any foreign market other than the European Community for which we received CE Mark approval for our Maestro RF System on March 4, 2009. We plan initially to launch our product, if approved, in the United States, but ultimately will also seek to commercialize our Maestro System in countries outside the United States. We cannot market our product in the United States unless it has been approved by the FDA. The FDA approval process involves, among other things, successfully completing clinical trials and obtaining a premarket approval (PMA). The PMA process requires us to prove the safety and efficacy of our Maestro System to the FDA’s satisfaction. This process can be expensive and uncertain, requires detailed and comprehensive scientific and human clinical data, generally takes one to three years after a PMA application is filed, and notwithstanding the effort and expense incurred, may never result in the FDA granting a PMA. Because VBLOC therapy represents a novel way to effect weight loss in the treatment of obesity, and because there is a large population of obese patients who might be eligible for treatment, it is possible that the FDA and other regulatory bodies will review an application for approval of our Maestro System with greater scrutiny, which could cause that process to be lengthier and more involved than that for products without such characteristics. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a PMA application for many reasons, including: • our inability to demonstrate safety or effectiveness to the FDA’s satisfaction; • the data from our preclinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support approval; • the facilities of our third-party manufacturers or suppliers may not meet applicable requirements; • our compliance with preclinical, clinical or other regulations; • our inability to meet the FDA’s statistical requirements or changes in statistical tests or significance levels the FDA requires for approval of a medical device, including ours; and • changes in the FDA approval policies, expectations with regard to the type or amount of scientific data required or adoption of new regulations may require additional data or additional clinical studies. In order to market our Maestro System outside of the United States, we will need to establish and comply with the numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may also include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may 23 negatively impact the regulatory process in others. While we have received the European CE Mark for our Maestro RF System, we cannot assure you when, or if, we will be able to commence sales in the European Economic Area or obtain approval to market our Maestro System in other countries outside the United States. We may not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to market our Maestro System in the United States or anywhere else. Even if we obtain approval, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may require expensive or burdensome post-market testing or controls. Any delay in, failure to receive or maintain, or significant limitation on approval for our Maestro System could prevent us from generating revenue or achieving profitability and we may be forced to cease operations. The preliminary results of the blinded segment of our EMPOWER trial may not be sufficient to support approval of a PMA application, and this will likely prevent or delay regulatory approval of our Maestro System and impair our financial position. In September 2009, we completed the blinded segment of our EMPOWER pivotal trial, a randomized, prospective, placebo-controlled multi-center trial of our Maestro System in the United States. Based on our initial analysis, the EMPOWER trial did not meet its primary and secondary efficacy endpoints; however, we are currently conducting a thorough analysis of the EMPOWER study data and have met with the FDA to discuss the EMPOWER trial results and the regulatory process going forward. Based on this discussion, we recently submitted an Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) application for a clinical trial using the next-generation Maestro RC System in the treatment of morbid obesity. Even if we are able to obtain FDA approval of an IDE for a clinical trial using the next-generation Maestro RC System in the treatment of morbid obesity, the inability to achieve our primary and secondary efficacy endpoints in the EMPOWER trial means that it will take us longer to ultimately commercialize a product and generate revenue, our financial projections may be impaired, and we may never be able to produce sufficient data to support a PMA application with the FDA or commercialize a product. We may be unable to receive approval for or complete a pivotal trial using our next-generation Maestro RC System or other trials, or we may experience significant delays in completing our clinical trials, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our Maestro System and impair our financial position. We recently submitted an IDE application for a clinical trial using the next-generation Maestro RC System in the treatment of morbid obesity. Assuming that we obtain an approved IDE, successfully enroll and implant the trial and achieve favorable results, we plan to use data from that trial to support a PMA application for the Maestro System. We expect to commence the trial upon receipt of an IDE approval from the FDA and upon receipt of approval from the relevant institutional review boards at the various sites at which we would be conducting the trial. Conducting a clinical trial of this size, which involves screening, assessing, testing, treating and monitoring patients at several sites across the country and possibly internationally, and coordinating with patients and clinical institutions, is a complex and uncertain process. The commencement of our trial could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • obtaining an IDE approval from the FDA with acceptable terms; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of our Maestro System; • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct the trial at a prospective site; and • obtaining sufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. 24 Once the trial has begun, the completion of the trial, and our other ongoing clinical trials, could be delayed, suspended or terminated for several reasons, including: • ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our preclinical results or clinical trial or requests for supplemental information with respect to our preclinical results or clinical trial results; • our failure or inability to conduct the clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements; • sites currently participating in the trial may drop out of the trial, which may require us to engage new sites or petition the FDA for an expansion of the number of sites that are permitted to be involved in the trial; • patients may not remain in or complete, clinical trials at the rates we expect; • patients may experience serious adverse events or side effects during the trial, which, whether or not related to our product, could cause the FDA or other regulatory authorities to place the clinical trial on hold; • clinical investigators may not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol and good clinical practices; and • we may be unable to obtain a sufficient supply of our Maestro System necessary for the timely conduct of the clinical trials. If our clinical trials are delayed it will take us longer to ultimately commercialize a product and generate revenue or the delay could result in our being unable to do so. Moreover, our development costs will increase if we have material delays in our clinical trials or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Even if we obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, our efforts to commercialize our Maestro System may not succeed or may encounter delays which could significantly harm our ability to generate revenue. If we obtain regulatory approval to market our Maestro System, our ability to generate revenue will depend upon the successful commercialization of this product. Our efforts to commercialize our Maestro System may not succeed for a number of reasons, including: • our Maestro System may not be accepted in the marketplace by physicians, patients and third-party payors; • the price of our Maestro System, associated costs of the surgical procedure and treatment and the availability of sufficient third-party reimbursement for the procedure and therapy implantation and follow-up procedures; • appropriate reimbursement coding options may not exist to enable billing for the system implantation and follow-up procedures; • we may not be able to sell our Maestro System at a price that allows us to meet the revenue targets necessary to generate revenue for profitability; • the frequency and severity of any side effects of our VBLOC therapy; • physicians and potential patients may not be aware of the perceived effectiveness and sustainability of the results of VBLOC therapy provided by our Maestro System; • we, or the investigators of our product, may not be able to have information on the outcome of the trials published in medical journals; • the availability and perceived advantages and disadvantages of alternative treatments; • any rapid technological change may make our product obsolete; 25 • we may not be able to have our Maestro System manufactured in commercial quantities or at an acceptable cost; • we may not have adequate financial or other resources to complete the development and commercialization of our Maestro System; and • we may be sued for infringement of intellectual property rights and could be enjoined from manufacturing or selling our products. Besides requiring physician adoption, market acceptance of our Maestro System will depend on successfully communicating the benefits of our VBLOC therapy to three additional constituencies involved in deciding whether to treat a particular patient using such therapy: (1) the potential patients themselves; (2) institutions such as hospitals, where the procedure would be performed and opinion leaders in these institutions; and (3) third-party payors, such as private healthcare insurers and Medicare, which would ultimately bear most of the costs of the various providers and equipment involved in our VBLOC therapy. Marketing to each of these constituencies requires a different marketing approach, and we must convince each of these groups of the efficacy and utility of our VBLOC therapy to be successful. If our VBLOC therapy, or any other neuroblocking therapy for other gastrointestinal diseases and disorders that we may develop, does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by the relevant constituencies, we may not generate significant product revenue and may not become profitable. The earliest we expect to be able to commercialize our Maestro System is in the second half of 2013, if at all. If we are not successful in the commercialization of our Maestro System for the treatment of obesity we may never generate any revenue and may be forced to cease operations. We depend on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials, and on other third parties to manage the trials and to perform related data collection and analysis, and, as a result, we may face costs and delays that are outside of our control. We rely on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials, including a potentially new clinical trial using our next generation Maestro RC System if approved by the FDA, and other third parties to manage the trials and to perform related data collection and analysis. However, we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that clinical sites may devote to our clinical trials. If these clinical investigators and clinical sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials, to ensure compliance by patients with clinical protocols or comply with regulatory requirements, we will be unable to complete these trials, which could prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals for our product. Our agreements with clinical investigators and clinical trial sites for clinical testing place substantial responsibilities on these parties and, if these parties fail to perform as expected, our trials could be delayed or terminated. If these clinical investigators, clinical sites or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, or the clinical data may be rejected by the FDA, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our product. Assuming we receive regulatory approval for the Maestro System, modifications to the Maestro System may require additional approval from the FDA, which may not be obtained or may delay our commercialization efforts. The FDA requires medical device companies to initially make and document a determination of whether or not a modification requires a new approval, supplement or clearance; however, the FDA can review a company’s decision. Any modifications to an FDA-approved device that could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a supplemental IDE and possibly additional clinical studies and a separate PMA application. Product changes or revisions will require all the regulatory steps and associated risks discussed above including testing, an IDE supplement and clinical study. 26 We may not be able to obtain approval of supplemental IDEs or PMAs for product modifications, new indications for our product or new products. Delays in obtaining future clearances would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our commercialization efforts and future growth. Physicians may not widely adopt our Maestro System and VBLOC therapy unless they determine, based on experience, long-term clinical data and published peer reviewed journal articles, that VBLOC therapy provides a safe and effective alternative to other existing treatments for obesity. Physicians tend to be slow to change their medical treatment practices because of the time and skill required to learn a new procedure, the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and procedures, and the uncertainty of third-party coverage and reimbursement. Physicians may not widely adopt our Maestro System and VBLOC therapy unless they determine, based on experience, long-term clinical data and published peer reviewed journal articles, that the use of our VBLOC therapy provides a safe and effective alternative to other existing treatments for obesity, including pharmaceutical solutions and bariatric surgical procedures. We cannot provide any assurance that the data collected from our current and planned clinical trials will be sufficient to demonstrate that our VBLOC therapy is an attractive alternative to other obesity treatment procedures. We rely on experienced and highly trained surgeons to perform the procedures in our clinical trials and both short- and long-term results reported in our clinical trials may be significantly more favorable than typical results of practicing physicians, which could negatively impact rates of adoption of our Maestro System and VBLOC therapy. We believe that published peer-reviewed journal articles and recommendations and support by influential physicians regarding our Maestro System and VBLOC therapy will be important for market acceptance and adoption, and we cannot assure you that we will receive these recommendations and support, or that supportive articles will be published. If we fail to obtain adequate coding, coverage or payment levels for our product by governmental healthcare programs and other third-party payors, there may be no commercially viable markets for our Maestro System or other products we may develop or our target markets may be much smaller than expected. Healthcare providers generally rely on third-party payors, including governmental payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private healthcare insurers, to adequately cover and reimburse the cost of medical devices. Importantly, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services and instituting cost containment measures to control or significantly influence the purchase of medical products and services. We expect that third-party payors will continue to attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare by challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and services. If reimbursement for our Maestro System and the related surgery and facility costs is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of our Maestro System will be impaired and our future revenue, if any, would be adversely affected. As such, even if we obtain FDA clearance or approval for our Maestro System and begin to market it, the availability and level of third-party coverage and reimbursement could substantially affect our ability to commercialize our Maestro System and other products we may develop. The efficacy, safety, ease of use and cost-effectiveness of our Maestro System and of any competing products will, in part, determine the availability and level of coverage and payment. In particular, we expect that securing coding, coverage and payment for our Maestro System will be more difficult if our clinical trials do not demonstrate a percentage of excess weight loss from a pre-implementation baseline that healthcare providers and obese individuals consider clinically meaningful, whether or not regulatory agencies consider the improvement of patients treated in clinical trials to have been clinically meaningful. In some international markets, pricing of medical devices is subject to government control. In the United States and international markets, we expect that both government and third-party payors will continue to attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare by challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and 27 services. If payment for our Maestro System and the related surgery and facility costs is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of our Maestro System will be impaired and our future revenue, if any, would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the likelihood or pace of any significant regulatory or legislative action in any of these areas, nor can we predict whether or in what form healthcare legislation being formulated by various governments will be passed. We also cannot predict with precision what effect such governmental measures would have if they were ultimately enacted into law. However, in general, we believe that such legislative activity will likely continue. If adopted, such measures can be expected to have an impact on our business. Even if our Maestro System is approved by regulatory authorities, if we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated product problems, our Maestro System could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our Maestro System will require access to manufacturing facilities that meet applicable regulatory standards to manufacture a sufficient supply of our product. We rely solely on third parties to manufacture and assemble our Maestro System, and do not currently plan to manufacture or assemble our Maestro System ourselves in the future. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. In particular we and our manufacturers and suppliers are required to comply with Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), which for medical devices is called the Quality System Regulation (QSR), and other regulations which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of any product for which we obtain marketing approval. The FDA enforces the QSR through unannounced inspections. We and our third-party manufacturers and suppliers have not yet been inspected by the FDA and will have to successfully complete such inspections before we receive regulatory approvals for our Maestro System. Failure by us or one of our manufacturers or suppliers to comply with statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or failure to adequately respond to any observations, could result in enforcement actions against us or our manufacturers or suppliers, including, restrictions on our product or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the product from the market, voluntary or mandatory recall, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If any of these actions were to occur it would harm our reputation and cause our product sales to suffer. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. If the FDA or any other regulatory body finds their compliance status to be unsatisfactory, our commercialization efforts could be delayed, which would harm our business and our results of operations. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use, we could be subject to significant liability, the FDA could request that we cease, correct or modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our training or other promotional materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. We are subject to medical device reporting (MDR) regulations that require us to report to the FDA or governmental authorities in other countries if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to require the 28 recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacturing. A government mandated, or voluntary, recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. Any recall would divert managerial and financial resources and could harm our reputation with customers. There can be no assurance that there will not be product recalls in the future or that such recalls would not have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we may later discover previously unknown problems with our products, including medically serious device related events. For example, we do not have long-term data on the safety of the Maestro System. Thus, there is a risk that long-term use of our Maestro System could cause injuries or harm, including possible damage to the vagus nerve. Any discovery of previously unknown problems with our product, including medically serious device related events, may result in restrictions on such products, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We depend on a limited number of manufacturers and suppliers of various critical components for our Maestro System. The loss of any of these manufacturer or supplier relationships could delay our clinical trials or prevent or delay commercialization of our Maestro System. We rely entirely on third parties to manufacture our Maestro System and to supply us with all of the critical components of our Maestro System, including our leads, implantable batteries, neuroregulators and controllers. If any of our existing suppliers were unable or unwilling to meet our demand for product components, or if the components or finished products that they supply do not meet quality and other specifications, clinical trials or commercialization of our product could be delayed. Alternatively, if we have to switch to a replacement manufacturer or replacement supplier for any of our product components, we may face additional regulatory delays, and the manufacture and delivery of our Maestro System could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which could delay completion of our clinical trials or commercialization of our Maestro System. In addition, we may be required to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA to use different suppliers or components. If our device manufacturers or our suppliers are unable to provide an adequate supply of our product following the start of commercialization, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. In order to produce our Maestro System in the quantities that we anticipate will be required to meet anticipated market demand, we will need our manufacturers to increase, or scale-up, the production process by a significant factor over our current level of production. There are technical challenges to scaling-up manufacturing capacity and developing commercial-scale manufacturing facilities that may require the investment of substantial additional funds by our manufacturers and hiring and retaining additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. If our manufacturers are unable to do so, we may not be able to meet the requirements for the launch of the product or to meet future demand, if at all. We may also represent only a small portion of our supplier’s or manufacturer’s business and if they become capacity constrained they may choose to allocate their available resources to other customers that represent a larger portion of their business. We currently anticipate that we will continue to rely on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for the production of the Maestro System following commercialization. If we develop and obtain regulatory approval for our product and are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of our product, our revenue, business and financial prospects would be adversely affected. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into and maintain arrangements with third parties to market and sell our Maestro System, our business may be harmed. We do not have a sales organization and have no experience as a company in sales, marketing and distribution of our product. To generate sales we will need to develop a sales and marketing infrastructure or contract with third parties to perform that function. Developing a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay or limit the success of any product launch. Even if we obtain approval from the FDA to market our Maestro System, we may be unable to develop an effective sales and marketing organization on a timely basis, if at all. If we develop our own sales and marketing capabilities, our sales force will be competing with the 29 experienced and well-funded marketing and sales organizations of our more established competitors. If we are unable to establish our own sales and marketing capabilities, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell our product. In this event, our profit margins would likely be lower than if we performed these functions ourselves. In addition, we would necessarily be relying on the skills and efforts of others for the successful marketing of our product. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales and marketing capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or liquidate some or all of our assets. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including conducting current and future clinical trials for our Maestro System. Even before we receive regulatory approval to market our Maestro System, we expect to spend significant funds commercializing the product, including development of a direct sales force. In 2009, our cash used in operations was $24.7 million. Our cash used in operations in 2010 and beyond will largely depend on our regulatory path forward. If the FDA grants us approval on an IDE application for a clinical trial using the next-generation Maestro RC System in the treatment of morbid obesity we would expect research and development expenditures to increase in support of a new clinical trial in addition to the continued follow-up on existing trials, such as VBLOC-DM2 ENABLE and EMPOWER. In 2010 and the years following, we expect that our cash used in operations will be significant, and we will need to raise substantial additional capital to continue our research and development programs, commercialize our Maestro System, if approved by the FDA, and fund our on going operations. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the scope, rate of progress, results and cost of our clinical trials and other research and development activities; • the cost and timing of regulatory approvals; • the cost and timing of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • the cost of establishing clinical and commercial supplies of our Maestro System and any products that we may develop; • the rate of market acceptance of our Maestro System and VBLOC therapy and any other product candidates; • the cost of filing and prosecuting patent applications and defending and enforcing our patent and other intellectual property rights; • the cost of defending, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third-party patent or other intellectual property rights; • the effect of competing products and market developments; • the cost of explanting clinical devices; • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing or other arrangements that we may establish; • any revenue generated by sales of our future products; and • the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies, although we currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. Until the time, if ever, when we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue, we expect to finance our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration, licensing arrangements and grants, as well as through interest income earned on cash balances. 30 Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants or additional security interests in our assets. Any additional debt or equity financing that we complete may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. Issuing public equity or debt securities may also be more costly or time-consuming for us because the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates (public float) is less than $75.0 million (calculated in accordance with the SEC rules and regulations), which limits the size of offerings we may make using a Form S-3 registration statement to 1/3 of our public float for any twelve month period. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate some or all of, our development programs or liquidate some or all of our assets. We may be unable to attract and retain management and other personnel we need to succeed. Our success depends on the services of our senior management and other key research and development employees. The loss of the services of one or more of our officers or key research and development employees could delay or prevent the successful completion of our clinical trials and the commercialization of our Maestro System. Upon receiving regulatory approval for our product, we expect to rapidly expand our operations and grow our research and development, product development and administrative operations. Our growth will require hiring a significant number of qualified clinical, scientific, commercial and administrative personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. We may be unable to manage our growth effectively. Our business strategy entails significant future growth. For example, we will have to expand existing operations in order to conduct additional clinical trials, increase our contract manufacturing capabilities, hire and train new personnel to handle the marketing and sales of our product, assist patients in obtaining reimbursement for the use of our product and create and develop new applications for our technology. This growth may place significant strain on our management and financial and operational resources. Successful growth is also dependent upon our ability to implement appropriate financial and management controls, systems and procedures. Our ability to effectively manage growth depends on our success in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, for which the competition may be intense. If we fail to manage these challenges effectively, our business could be harmed. We face the risk of product liability claims that could be expensive, divert management’s attention and harm our reputation and business. We may not be able to obtain adequate product liability insurance. Our business exposes us to a risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. The medical device industry has historically been subject to extensive litigation over product liability claims. We may be subject to product liability claims if our Maestro System, or any other products we may sell, causes, or appears to have caused, an injury. Claims may be made by consumers, healthcare providers, third-party strategic collaborators or others selling our products. We have $5 million of product liability insurance, which covers the use of our Maestro System and VBLOC therapy in our clinical trials, which amount we believe is appropriate. Our current product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if available, the coverage may not be adequate to protect us against any future product liability claims. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost and on acceptable terms for an adequate coverage amount, or otherwise to protect against 31 potential product liability claims, we could be exposed to significant liabilities, which may harm our business. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These liabilities could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. Defending a suit, regardless of merit, could be costly, could divert management attention and might result in adverse publicity, which could result in the withdrawal of, or inability to recruit, clinical trial volunteers or result in reduced acceptance of our Maestro System and VBLOC therapy in the market. We may be subject to product liability claims even if it appears that the claimed injury is due to the actions of others. For example, we rely on the expertise of surgeons and other associated medical personnel to perform the medical procedure to implant and remove our Maestro System and to perform the related VBLOC therapy. If these medical personnel are not properly trained or are negligent, the therapeutic effect of our Maestro System and VBLOC therapy may be diminished or the patient may suffer critical injury, which may subject us to liability. In addition, an injury that is caused by the negligence of one of our suppliers in supplying us with a defective component that injures a patient could be the basis for a claim against us. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in decreased demand for our products; injury to our reputation; diversion of management’s attention; withdrawal of clinical trial participants; significant costs of related litigation; substantial monetary awards to patients; product recalls or market withdrawals; loss of revenue; and the inability to commercialize our products under development. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse and false claims laws and regulations. Prosecutions under such laws have increased in recent years and we may become subject to such litigation. If we are unable to, or have not fully complied with such laws, we could face substantial penalties. If we are successful in achieving regulatory approval to market our Maestro System, our operations will be directly, or indirectly through our customers, subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and federal False Claims Act. These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing and education programs. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Several courts have interpreted the statute’s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and, despite a series of narrow safe harbors, prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing, or causing to be filed, a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, commonly known as “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The frequency of filing qui tam actions has increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of medical device, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies to have to defend a False Claim Act action. When an entity is determined to have violated the federal False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim. Various states have also enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. 32 We are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under any of these laws, or the impact of such actions. If we are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare reimbursement programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ have imposed various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations result in increased legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure. In particular, we are required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. We have incurred and continue to expect to incur significant expense and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with Section 404. We currently do not have an internal audit function, and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, if we do not comply with the requirements of Section 404, or if we identify deficiencies in our internal controls that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would entail expenditure of additional financial and management resources. We operate in a highly competitive industry that is subject to rapid change. If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are safer or more effective than our products, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. The health care industry is highly competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. The obesity treatment market in which we operate has grown significantly in recent years and is expected to continue to expand as technology continues to evolve and awareness of the need to treat the obesity epidemic grows. Although we are not aware of any competitors in the neuroblocking market, we face potential competition from pharmaceutical and surgical obesity treatments. Many of our competitors in the obesity treatment field have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly if they pursue competing solutions through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies, such as Allergan, Cyberonics, Johnson & Johnson, Medtronic or St. Jude Medical. Our competitors may develop and patent processes or products earlier than us, obtain regulatory approvals for competing products more rapidly than we are able to and develop more effective, safer and less expensive products or technologies that would render our products non-competitive or obsolete. We may not be successful in our efforts to utilize our VBLOC therapy to treat co-morbidities associated with obesity and other gastrointestinal diseases and disorders. As part of our long-term business strategy, we plan to research the application of our VBLOC therapy to treat co-morbidities associated with obesity and other gastrointestinal diseases and disorders. Research to identify new target applications requires substantial technical, financial and human resources, whether or not any new 33 applications for our VBLOC therapy are ultimately identified. We may be unable to identify or pursue other applications of our technology. Even if we identify potential new applications for our VBLOC therapy, investigating the safety and efficacy of our therapy requires extensive clinical testing, which is expensive and time-consuming. If we terminate a clinical trial in which we have invested significant resources, our prospects will suffer, as we will have expended resources on a program that will not provide a return on our investment and missed the opportunity to allocate those resources to potentially more productive uses. We will also need to obtain regulatory approval for these new applications, as well as achieve market acceptance and an acceptable level of reimbursement. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights relating to our technology and neuroblocking therapy, the commercial value of our technology and any future products will be adversely affected and our competitive position will be harmed. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to obtain protection in the United States and other countries for our Maestro System and VBLOC therapy by establishing and maintaining intellectual property rights relating to or incorporated into our technology and products. To date, we have nine issued U.S. patents, seven of which pertain to treating gastrointestinal disorders, 22 U.S. patent applications, four pending international patent applications (PCT) and fourteen national stage patent applications, including seven European applications, in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, we are the exclusive licensee to two U.S. patent applications owned by Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research, which are unrelated to our VBLOC therapy. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will provide us any competitive advantage. We expect to incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. The patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. We do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. If we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. We may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party’s products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or re-examinations. In the event that we seek to enforce any of our owned or exclusively licensed patents against an infringing party, it is likely that the party defending the claim will seek to invalidate the patents we assert, which, if successful could result in the loss of the entire patent or the relevant portion of our patent, which would not be limited to any particular party. Any litigation to enforce or defend our patent rights, even if we were to prevail, could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Even if we were to prevail in any litigation, we cannot assure you that we can obtain an injunction that prevents our competitors from practicing our patented technology. Our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products without infringing any of our patent or other intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. We cannot assure you that we will obtain any patent protection that we seek, that any protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged or that it will confer any significant commercial advantage. U.S. patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings and U.S. patents may be subject to re-examination proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) and foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices, which proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application, or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of, the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, re-examination and opposition proceedings may be costly. Moreover, the U.S. patent laws may change, possibly making it easier to challenge patents. Some of our technology was, and continues to be, developed in conjunction with third parties, and thus there is a risk that such third parties may claim rights in our intellectual property. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may provide limited or no protection against competitors. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may 34 not result in patents being issued. If issued, they may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Non-payment or delay in payment of patent fees or annuities, whether intentional or unintentional, may result in loss of patents or patent rights important to our business. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against third parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, particularly in the field of medical products and procedures. Many of our competitors have significant resources and incentives to apply for and obtain intellectual property rights that could limit or prevent our ability to commercialize our current or future products in the United States or abroad. Many of our competitors who have significant resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products either in the United States or in international markets. Our current or future U.S. or foreign patents may be challenged, circumvented by competitors or others or may be found to be invalid, unenforceable or insufficient. Since patent applications are confidential until patents are issued in the United States, or in most cases, until after 18 months from filing of the application, or corresponding applications are published in other countries, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Intellectual property litigation is a common tactic in the medical device industry to gain competitive advantage. If we become subject to a lawsuit, we may be required to expend significant financial and other resources and our management’s attention may be diverted from our business. There has been a history of frequent and extensive litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry, and companies in the medical device industry have employed intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Accordingly, we may become subject to patent infringement claims or litigation in a court of law, or interference proceedings declared by the USPTO to determine the priority of inventions or an opposition to a patent grant in a foreign jurisdiction. We may also become subject to claims or litigation seeking payment of royalties based on sales of our product in connection with licensing or similar joint development arrangements with third parties or in connection with claims of patent infringement. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, USPTO interference or opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings, are both costly and time consuming and could result in substantial uncertainty to us. Litigation or regulatory proceedings may also be necessary to enforce patent or other intellectual property rights of ours or to determine the scope and validity of other parties’ proprietary rights. Any 35 litigation, opposition or interference proceedings, with or without merit, may result in substantial expense to us, cause significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of our technical and management personnel and harm our reputation. We may not have the financial resources to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity. An adverse determination in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from or pay royalties to third parties or prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using our proposed products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We are not currently a party to any patent or other litigation. Our VBLOC therapy or Maestro System may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents that we do not own or license, including patents that may issue in the future based on patent applications of which we are currently aware, as well as applications of which we are unaware. For example, we are aware of other companies that are investigating neurostimulation, including neuroblocking, and of patents and published patent applications held by companies in those fields. While we believe that none of such patents and patent applications are applicable to our products and technologies under development, third parties who own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if such claims are successfully asserted against us, they could cause us to pay substantial damages, could result in an injunction preventing us from selling, manufacturing or using our proposed products and would divert management’s attention. Because patent applications in many countries such as the United States are maintained under conditions of confidentiality and can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware and which may later result in issued patents that our products infringe. If a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop our ongoing or planned clinical trials, or delay or abandon commercialization of the product that is subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose or be required to seek a license from a third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties, or both. A license may not be available at all or on commercially reasonable terms, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Modification of our products or development of new products could require us to conduct additional clinical trials and to revise our filings with the FDA and other regulatory bodies, which would be time-consuming and expensive. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. Further, our common stock has a limited trading history. Since our public offering in November 2007 through February 26, 2010 our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $0.40 to a high of $10.77. The market price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including: • the denial or delay of regulatory clearances or approvals of our product or receipt of regulatory approval of competing products; • our ability to accomplish clinical, regulatory and other product development milestones and to do so in accordance with the timing estimates we have publicly announced; • changes in policies affecting third-party coverage and reimbursement in the United States and other countries; • changes in government regulations and standards affecting the medical device industry and our product; • ability of our product, if it receives regulatory approval, to achieve market success; • the performance of third-party contract manufacturers and component suppliers; 36 • our ability to develop sales and marketing capabilities; • actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • announcements of new products, technological innovations or product advancements by us or our competitors; • developments with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights; • sales of common stock or other securities by us or our stockholders in the future; • additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • trading volume of our common stock; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, failure to obtain analyst coverage of our common stock or our failure to achieve analyst earnings estimates; • public statements by analysts or clinicians regarding their perceptions of our clinical results or the effectiveness of our products; • decreases in market valuations of medical device companies; and • general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. The stock prices of many companies in the medical device industry have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation often has been initiated against a company. If class action litigation is initiated against us, we may incur substantial costs and our management’s attention may be diverted from our operations, which could significantly harm our business. Our directors and executive officers hold substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. Our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 39.1% of our outstanding common stock as of February 26, 2010. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities, if acting together, would be able to influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and may affect the market price of our common stock. This significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by existing stockholders, or the perception that they may occur, could cause our stock price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by us or by our stockholders, announcements of the proposed sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or the perception that substantial sales may be made, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may issue additional shares of our common stock in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital or in connection with acquisitions or corporate alliances and we plan to issue additional shares to our employees, directors or consultants in connection with their services to us. All of the currently outstanding shares of our common stock are freely tradable under federal and state securities laws, except for shares held by our directors, officers and certain greater than five percent stockholders, 37 which may be subject to volume limitations, and shares issued in connection with our recent private placement offering. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time and could reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, certain holders of our common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. If we were to include in a company-initiated registration statement shares held by those holders pursuant to the exercise of their registration rights, the sale of those shares could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our common stock. Our organizational documents and Delaware law make a takeover of our company more difficult, which may prevent certain changes in control and limit the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our stockholders to remove or replace management, engage in proxy contests and effect changes in control. These provisions include: • our board of directors will be authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock which could be used to implement anti-takeover devices; • advance notice will be required for director nominations or for proposals that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • our board of directors will be classified such that not all members of our board are elected at one time, which may make it more difficult for a person who acquires control of a majority of our outstanding voting stock to replace all or a majority of our directors; • stockholder action by written consent will be prohibited; • special meetings of the stockholders will be permitted to be called only by the chairman of our board of directors or by a majority of our board of directors; and • stockholders will not be permitted to accumulate their votes for the election of directors; and stockholders will be permitted to amend our bylaws only upon receiving a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us, which may limit the market price of our common stock. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our earnings, 38 financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 