D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Industry Demand for our PV products has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by volatile market and industry trends. Demand for our PV products has been affected by global economic conditions, capital markets fluctuations and credit disruptions. During the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009, many of our key markets, including Germany, Spain and the United States, and other national economies experienced a period of economic contraction or significantly slower economic growth. The global financial crisis, weak consumer confidence and diminished consumer and business spending have contributed to a significant slowdown in the market demand for PV products due to decreased energy requirements. In addition, many of our customers and many end-users of our PV products depend on debt financing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to purchase our PV products. During the global financial crisis, many of our customers and many end-users of our PV products experienced difficulties in obtaining financing, and even if they were able to obtain financing, the cost of such financing had increased. As a result, they changed their decision or changed the timing of their decision to purchase our PV products. In 2010, as the effect of the global financial crisis subsided, the combination of increased availability of financing for downstream buyers and decreased average selling prices of solar power products contributed to an overall increase in demand for solar power products. Since 2011, a decrease in payment to PV product producers, in the form of feed-in tariffs and other reimbursements, and a reduction in available financing have caused a decrease in the growth in a number of PV projects in the European markets. Payments to PV product producers decreased as governments in Europe, under pressure to reduce sovereign debt levels, reduced subsidies such as feed-in tariffs. Furthermore, many downstream purchasers of PV products were unable to secure sufficient financing for PV projects due to the global financial crisis. These market conditions were exacerbated by an oversupply of PV products driven by increased manufacturing capacity, which adversely affected the prices of PV products. Although the global economy has improved since 2011, the demand for solar modules in Europe fell around 46% to 9.7 GW in 2013 from 17.8 GW in 2012, which further declined to 6.6 GW in 2014, according to BNEF. As a result, many solar power producers that typically purchase solar power products from manufacturers like us were unable or unwilling to expand their operations. There can be no assurance that our customers or end-users will be able to obtain financing on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, which could have a negative impact on their demand for our products. Rising interest rates may make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost of PV systems and therefore limit the demand for our PV products and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price of our PV products. A protracted disruption in the ability of our customers to obtain financing, economic downturn or an increase in manufacturing capacity of the PV industry has led to, and may continue to have, a protracted material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the past few years, the decrease in demand for our products has led to, and may continue to result in, idle capacity. The reduction in demand has resulted in, and may continue to lead to, a significant amount of our capacity not being utilized, and our assets being impaired. The average selling price of our PV products may continue to decrease, and our margins would be adversely impacted if prices decrease faster than we are able to reduce our costs. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the supply of PV products has increased significantly as many manufacturers of PV products worldwide, including our company, have engaged in significant production capacity expansion. As a result, this state of oversupply has resulted in reductions in the prevailing market prices 4 Table of Contents of PV products as manufacturers have reduced their average selling prices in an attempt to obtain sales. Oversupply conditions across the value chain, together with difficult conditions in Europe, have put continued pressure on average selling prices. According to BNEF, the industry-wide average selling price of PV modules per watt was US$0.76/W, US$0.70/W and US$0.64/W in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. While the challenging industry environment since 2012 caused some of the PV manufacturers to reduce production or shut down capacity, as well as consolidations among them, the state of industry-wide oversupply continued despite such production cuts and consolidations, and may continue to exist, which would have a negative impact on the average selling prices of our PV products. In addition, the average selling prices of PV products have shown a declining trend historically and are expected to continually decline with time irrespective of industry-wide fluctuations in supply and demand as a result of, among other factors, technological advancements and cost reductions. If the average per-watt selling price for our PV products decreases faster than we are able to reduce our per-watt manufacturing costs, our gross margins would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Increases in the prices of raw materials, including polysilicon and silicon wafers, may adversely impact our business and results of operations. Raw materials used in the production of solar cells and modules include silicon-related materials, silver paste and aluminum frames, among others. Among them, silicon-related materials such as polysilicon and silicon wafers are the most important raw materials used in the production of our PV products. Prior to mid-2008, there was an industry-wide shortage of silicon. In late 2008 and 2009, however, newly available silicon capacity has resulted in an increased supply of silicon, which resulted in downward pressure on the price of silicon. According to Bloomberg, spot prices for polysilicon fell from a peak of over US$120 per kilogram in the first quarter of 2009 to approximately US$55 per kilogram at the end of 2009. Although the silicon price rebounded between the third quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011 due to the recovery of demand for PV products in certain markets, the silicon price has decreased significantly again starting from the second quarter of 2011 as the result of increased manufacturing capacity for silicon and the pressure from the decreasing average selling price of PV modules. In 2012, the polysilicon price continued to decline, reaching a historical low of approximately US$14 per kilogram in November 2012. While the price has improved slightly since, it remained low through 2013 and 2014. According to BNEF, the industry-wide average spot price of solar grade polysilicon was approximately US$19.13 per kilogram in the week of February 23, 2015. We cannot guarantee that the price of silicon will continue to decline or remain at its current levels, especially if the global solar power market regains its growth momentum. Increases in the price of silicon have in the past increased our production costs, and any significant price increase in the future may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy applications could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We believe that the growth of the market for solar energy and PV products depends in large part on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives may hinder the growth of the solar energy market, which could decrease demand for our products and reduce our revenue. The cost of solar energy currently exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid in many countries. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably Japan, Germany, Spain, Italy, the United States, Australia, China, Korea, France and the Czech Republic, have provided subsidies and economic incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of PV products to promote the use of solar energy and to reduce dependency on traditional forms of energy. However, a number of these government economic incentives 5 Table of Contents are set to be reduced and may be reduced further, or eliminated, for political, financial or other reasons, which will be difficult for us to predict. For instance, the German government has continuously reduced feed-in-tariffs since 2009 and the Japanese government reduced feed-in-tariffs applicable to solar projects of 10kW or more from JPY40 per kWh for the fiscal year 2012 to JPY36 per kWh for the fiscal year 2013 and JPY32 per kWh for the fiscal year 2014. In addition, the regulatory changes in Japan proposed in December 2014 that, among others, reduce utility providers’ obligation to purchase electricity produced by renewable energy sources and expand utility providers’ power to curtail output from solar installations up to 360 hours a year could adversely affect the solar demand in Japan. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation”. Germany accounted for 40.5%, 14.7% and 14.3% of Hanwha SolarOne’s net revenues in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively, and 18.0% and 10.5% of Q CELLS’ net revenues in 2013 and 2014, respectively. Japan accounted for 6.7%, 25.0% and 23.2% of Hanwha SolarOne’s net revenues in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively, and 43.8% and 50.3% of Q CELLS’ net revenues in 2013 and 2014, respectively. Political changes or fiscal difficulties in a particular country could result in significant reductions or eliminations of subsidies or economic incentives. Electric utility companies that have significant political lobbying powers may also seek changes in the relevant legislation in their markets that may adversely affect the development and commercial acceptance of solar energy. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy applications, especially those in our target markets, could cause demand for our products and our net revenues to decline, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are unable to compete in the highly competitive PV market, our revenue and profits may decrease and we may lose market share. The PV market is very competitive. We face competition from a number of PV manufacturers and downstream service providers, including Yingli Green Energy Holding Co., Ltd., Trina Solar Limited, First Solar, Inc., JinkoSolar Holding Co., Ltd., Canadian Solar Inc., JA Solar Holdings Co., Ltd. and SunPower Corporation. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the markets for our PV cells and modules are: • price; • product offerings and quality of products including conversion efficiency; • strength of supply chain and distribution network; • manufacturing capacity and capacity utilization; • financial stability of the manufacturer; • after-sales services; and • brand name recognition. Some of our current and potential competitors may have longer operating histories, access to larger customer bases and resources and significantly greater economies of scale than we do. In particular, many of our competitors are developing and manufacturing solar energy products based on new technologies that may ultimately have costs similar to, or lower than, our projected costs. In addition, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or devote more resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we can. Furthermore, competitors with more diversified product offerings may be better positioned to withstand a decline in the demand for PV products. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the downstream markets in which we compete are: • financing capabilities; • sales and marketing network; 6 Table of Contents • knowledge and understanding of local regulatory requirements; and • track records and reputation in the relevant local market. Our PV downstream business has a relatively short history compared to some of our competitors and we may not have the same level of expertise and customer base as our competitors, which may affect our ability to successfully expand our PV downstream business. In addition, our competitors owned or controlled by local persons or entities may be more competitive when obtaining government support, local financing or otherwise expanding in the respective local markets. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among existing competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. If we fail to compete successfully, our business would suffer and we may lose or be unable to gain market share and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Declines in the prices of other energy sources, including oil and natural gas, could have a material adverse effect on the demand for PV products and our business and prospects. The PV market in general competes with other sources of renewable energy as well as conventional power generation. Electricity is generated from a variety of sources, primarily including coal, natural gas, hydro power, nuclear power, oil and wind, and the demand for PV products are affected by the prices of these non-solar energy resources. Prices of some of these energy resources, in particular oil and natural gas, have historically shown significant volatility due to various factors, including global economic conditions and demand for energy resources, the level of investment by government and private enterprises in exploration and production activities and the degree of success of such activities in increasing the global supply, government regulations and policies concerning the energy sector and political developments in resource-producing countries or regions. Since the second half of 2014, the market prices of oil and natural gas have significantly declined due to, among others, an increase in supply from shale explorations in the United States, as well as continued high level of production in Middle-East countries and Russia and weak global economic outlook. Such decline in the prices of oil and natural gas could negatively affect the demand for PV products by reducing the cost of generating electricity from these sources and by undermining government and public support for the use of renewable energy sources. If prices for conventional and other renewable energy resources decline, or if these resources enjoy greater policy support than solar power, the PV market and our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to respond to rapid market changes in the PV industry, including by developing new technologies and offering additional products and services, which exposes us to a number of risks and uncertainties. The PV industry is characterized by rapid changes in the diversity and complexity of technologies, products and services. In particular, the ongoing evolution of technological standards requires products with improved features, such as more efficient and higher power output and improved aesthetics. As a result, we expect that we will need to develop, or obtain access to, advances in technologies on a continuous basis in order for us to respond to competitive market conditions and customer demands. In addition, advances in technologies typically lead to declining average selling prices for products using older technologies or make our current products less competitive or obsolete. As a result, the profitability of any given product, and our overall profitability, may decrease over time. In addition, we will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to maintain our competitiveness and keep pace with technological advances in the PV industry. However, commercial acceptance by customers of new products we offer may not occur at the rate or level expected, and we may not be able to successfully adapt existing products to effectively and economically meet customer demands, thus impairing the return from our investments. We may also be required under the applicable accounting standards to 7 Table of Contents recognize a charge for the impairment of assets to the extent our existing products become uncompetitive or obsolete, or if any new products fail to achieve commercial acceptance. Any such charge may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to bring quality products and services to market in a timely and cost-effective manner and successfully market and sell these products and services, our ability to continue penetrating the PV market, as well as our results of operations and profitability, will be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, many of our competitors are developing next-generation products based on new PV technologies, including amorphous silicon, transparent conductive oxide thin film, carbon material and nano-crystalline technologies, which, if successful, will compete with the crystalline silicon technology we currently use in our manufacturing processes. If we fail to develop new technologies and products in a timely manner, we may lose our competitive advantage. If PV technology is not suitable for widespread adoption, or sufficient demand for PV products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our sales may not increase or may even decline, and our revenue and profitability would be reduced. The PV market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which PV products will be widely adopted is uncertain. Furthermore, market data in the PV industry are not as readily available as those in other more established industries, where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. If PV technology, in particular the type of PV technology that we have adopted, proves unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for PV products fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to grow our business or generate sufficient revenue to be profitable. In addition, demand for PV products in our targeted markets, including China, Japan, the United States and the European Union, or EU, may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and demand for PV products, including: • cost-effectiveness of PV products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; • performance and reliability of PV products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; • availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the PV industry or other energy resource industries; • success of other alternative energy generation technologies, such as fuel cells, wind power and biomass; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; • capital expenditures by end users of PV products, which tend to decrease when the overall economy slows down; and • deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry. Existing regulations and policies governing the electric utility industry, as well as changes to regulations and policies affecting PV products, may adversely affect demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. The electric utility industry is subject to extensive regulation, and the market for PV products is heavily influenced by these regulations as well as the policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often affect electricity pricing and technical interconnection of end-user power generation. As the market 8 Table of Contents for solar and other alternative energy sources continues to evolve, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in research and development of, solar and other alternative energy sources may be significantly affected by these regulations and policies, which could significantly reduce demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. Moreover, we expect that our PV products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters in various countries. We also have to comply with the requirements of individual localities and design equipment to comply with varying standards applicable in the jurisdictions where we conduct business. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our PV products may result in significant additional expenses to us, our distributors and end users and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our PV products, as well as materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The growth of distributed solar power generation market is subject to uncertainties. Distributed solar power generation refers to generating solar energy through small-scale grid-connected PV devices such as rooftop PV installations, which offers a number of advantages over large, centralized solar farms, such as less need for new transmission capacity, scalability and ease of installation. Distributed solar power generation has shown strong growth in certain countries, especially in China, where the Chinese government in 2012 announced policies strongly encouraging distributed solar power generation, and in early 2014 set an annual installation target of 8 GW for 2014. However, the growth of distributed solar power generation market is subject to various uncertainties. The distributed solar power generation market is still primarily driven by government incentives, such as government subsidies and feed-in tariff. If such incentive programs are reduced or eliminated, the market for distributed solar power generation could be negatively impacted. In addition, many distributed solar power generation systems are established on the leased rooftops of commercial buildings. Since the ownerships of such rooftops typically do not belong to the solar generation companies, the operation of PV devices on such rooftops may be materially and adversely affected as a result of unforeseen situations or situations beyond the control of solar power generation companies, including early termination of the lease agreement between the solar power generation company and the owner of the rooftop, or foreclosure of the buildings by the creditor of the owner of such building in accordance with the mortgage on such building. Additionally, as it usually takes at least multiple years to break even from distributed solar power generation, the operation of distributed solar power generation is subject to long-term market and credit risks including the risk of not being able to finance or refinance loan from lender or not being able to generate sufficient cash on a continuous basis to support the operation on a long term basis. Due to these factors, it may be difficult to transfer a completed distributed solar power generation project to a third party, which adversely affects the liquidity of investments in these projects. Risks Related to Our Company Changes in international trade policies and international barriers to trade may materially and adversely affect our ability to export our products worldwide. In response to increasing trade tensions in the international solar market, especially in the United States and the EU solar markets, we are undertaking efforts to avoid or alleviate the impacts from the present and foreseeable anti-dumping duty (“AD”) and countervailing duty (“CVD”) proceedings. However, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful due to potential policy changes or other changes in the activities and practices of the various national trade authorities responsible for AD and CVD enforcement. United States. In October 2011, a trade action was filed with the U.S. Department of Commerce (“USDOC”) and the U.S. International Trade Commission (“USITC”) by seven U.S. firms, accusing Chinese producers of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells (“CSPV”) of selling their products produced in 9 Table of Contents China into the United States at less than fair value, or dumping, and of receiving countervailable subsidies from the Chinese authorities. On October 9, 2012, the USDOC issued final affirmative determinations in the anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigations. On November 7, 2012, the USITC ruled that imports of CSPV cells from Chinese producers had caused material injury to the U.S. CSPV industry. Finally, on December 7, 2012, the USDOC issued AD and CVD orders. Consequently, imports of solar panels from SolarOne Qidong are subject to a combined effective AD and CVD deposit rate of 29.18%, of which 15.24% is attributable to the CVD. Imports of solar panels from SolarOne Hong Kong are subject to a combined effective rate of 254.66%, which is comprised of an AD of 239.42% and a CVD of 15.24%. Actual AD and CVD ultimately due are determined by the USDOC after its review of actual transactions. Such review takes place annually in the anniversary month (December) of the publication of the AD and CVD orders upon request, and covers the preceding one-year period. In December 2013, the U.S. industry requested administrative reviews in both the AD and CVD cases and the resulting reviews were initiated by the USDOC on February 3, 2014. The U.S. industry requested that SolarOne Qidong be reviewed in both the AD and CVD cases. In the course of those reviews, based on the USDOC’s regulations, the U.S. industry withdrew its requests for the AD and CVD reviews of SolarOne Qidong. As a consequence, its AD and CVD rates remained unchanged and the previous AD deposits paid on entries into the U.S. made from May 25, 2012 to November 30, 2013 are to be liquidated at the deposit rate in effect at the time of entry. Similarly, CVD deposits paid on entries into the U.S. made from March 26 to December 31, 2012 are to be liquidated at the deposit rate in effect at the time of entry. Additionally, no request of SolarOne Qidong’s AD entries made during the period from December 1, 2013 to November 30, 2014 or of its CVD entries made during the period from January 1 to December 31, 2013 was made to the USDOC. On December 31, 2013, SolarWorld Industries America, Inc. filed new antidumping cases against similar CSPV products from China and Taiwan and a new CVD case against China. These new cases seek AD and CVD against (i) CSPV products with cells with any stage of production in China, if the cells are assembled in China, regardless of the country of origin of the cells, and (ii) CSPV products containing cells that were of Taiwanese origin. The USDOC and USITC initiated investigations on January 21, 2014. In its final determinations in these investigations, the USDOC found that PRC and Taiwanese exporters were selling subject CSPV products to the United States at less than fair value (the “AD investigation”) and/or that PRC exporters were receiving actionable subsidies (the “CVD investigation”). The USITC published its final determination on February 10, 2015 that the American industry was materially injured as a result of these imports, and the USDOC published final orders on February 18, 2015, requiring importers of subject CSPV products, including products imported from SolarOne Qidong and SolarOne Hong Kong, to pay AD and/or CVD deposits for their entries of subject CSPV products into the United States. In connection with the USDOC’s AD investigation of subject CSPV products from China, the USDOC applied an AD deposit rate of 52.13% to SolarOne Qidong and SolarOne Hong Kong as “separate rate” companies, based on the USDOC’s findings with respect to the other Chinese exporters selected for individual examination. In connection with the USDOC’s AD investigation of subject CSPV products from Taiwan, the USDOC applied an AD deposit rate of 19.50% to SolarOne Qidong and SolarOne Hong Kong as “all others” companies, based on the USDOC’s findings with respect to other Taiwanese exporters selected for individual examination. Moreover, in connection with the CVD investigation and final order, the USDOC applied a CVD deposit rate of 38.43% to SolarOne Qidong and SolarOne Hong Kong as an “all-other” company, which is based on the USDOC’s findings with respect to the other Chinese exporters selected for individual examination. Moreover, entries of subject CSPV products made before USITC’s final determination are potentially subject to different AD and CVD rates than those identified in the USDOC final orders. In connection with the CVD investigation, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”) has continued to suspend liquidation 10 Table of Contents of unliquidated CVD deposits of 26.89% for entries of subject cells from the PRC entering the United States on or after June 10, 2014 (the date on which USDOC published its preliminary CVD determination) but before October 8, 2014 (the date on which USDOC instructed CBP to discontinue the suspension of liquidation). Similarly, in connection with the AD investigations, CBP will continue to suspend liquidation of unliquidated AD deposits of 42.33% for entries of PV products from China and 24.23% for entries of PV products from Taiwan entering the United States on or after July 31, 2014 (the date on which USDOC published its preliminary AD determination) but before January 28, 2015 (the date provisional measures expires). The ultimate liability for entries made during these periods (which is the liability of the importer of record) will not be assessed until the completion of the first administrative review. Specifically, the importers’ ultimate liability for AD and/or CVD will not be known until the completion of administrative reviews, the first of which is not expected to be initiated until February 2016. The final results of the first administrative review are expected to be determined in 2017 and the USDOC will assess the importers’ final liability for entries made during these respective periods at that time. European Union. On September 6 and November 8, 2012, the European Commission initiated an anti-dumping proceeding and an anti-subsidy proceeding concerning imports of crystalline silicon PV modules and key components, such as cells and wafers, originating in China. On July 27, 2013, the European Union and Chinese trade negotiators announced that an agreement had been reached pursuant to which Chinese manufacturers, including Hanwha SolarOne, would limit their export of solar panels and cells to the European Union and for no less than a minimum price, in exchange for the European Union agreeing to forgo the imposition of anti-dumping duties on these solar panels from China. The offer was approved by the European Commission on August 2, 2013, and the final version was published on December 5, 2013. The Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic Product (CCCME) of China will be responsible for allocating the quota between PV companies, and Hanwha SolarOne has been allocated a portion of the quota. Solar panels and cells imported in excess of the annual quota will be subject to anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties. This price undertaking and annual quota have also resolved the parallel anti-subsidy investigation. For companies that would violate the price undertaking or the quota, or which do not form part of the agreement, definitive duties will be levied as per the definitive anti-dumping and anti-subsidy regulations that were published on December 5, 2013. Finally, it should be noted that wafers have been excluded from the scope of both the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures. In connection with the implementation of the undertaking, the European Commission conducted an on-spot verification at SolarOne Qidong from July 17, 2014 to July 18, 2014 and another on-spot verification at SolarOne GmbH from October 30, 2014 to October 31, 2014. As of the date of this annual report, we have not received any written decision from the European Commission regarding the verifications. It is also possible that other AD or CVD or other import restrictive proceedings may be initiated in other jurisdictions. In December 2014, Canada initiated AD and CVD investigations against certain PV modules and laminates originating in or exported from China. We cannot guarantee that the proceeding will be determined in our favor. We also cannot guarantee that in those proceedings involving us, we will get the most favorable AD or CVD rates in comparison with our competitors. In addition, if such proceedings were successfully pursued in jurisdictions where we export the majority of our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Violations of laws of AD and CVD can result in significant additional duties imposed on exports of our products into these countries, which could increase our costs of accessing future additional markets. 11 Table of Contents The imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duties on our raw materials, including polysilicon, could materially increase our cost of production and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. On July 18, 2013, the Ministry of Commerce of People’s Republic of China (“MOFCOM”), issued a preliminary ruling imposing provisionary anti-dumping duties commencing on July 24, 2013 and ending on January 19, 2014, and on January 20, 2014, a final ruling imposing anti-dumping duties, commencing on January 20, 2014, on certain importers of solar grade polysilicon products from the United States and Korea, based on its determination of the dumping margin of the relevant original manufacturer. On September 16, 2013, MOFCOM issued a preliminary ruling imposing provisionary countervailing duties, commencing on September 20, 2013 and ending on January 19, 2014, and on January 20, 2014, a final ruling imposing countervailing duties commencing on January 20, 2014 on certain importers of solar grade polysilicon products from the United States, based on its determination of the ad valorem subsidy rate of the relevant original manufacturer. MOFCOM also commenced anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations on certain importers of solar grade polysilicon products from the European Union, and, on October 31, 2013, MOFCOM extended the deadline of the investigation to May 1, 2014. On April 30, 2014, MOFCOM issued a final ruling imposing anti-dumping duties, commencing on May 1, 2014 and ending on April 30, 2016, on certain importers of solar grade polysilicon products from the European Union, based on its determination of the dumping margin of the relevant original manufacturer. In addition, on April 30, 2014, MOFCOM issued a final ruling imposing countervailing duties, commencing on May 1, 2014 and ending on April 30, 2016, on certain importers of solar grade polysilicon products from the European Union, based on its determination of the ad valorem subsidy rate of the relevant original manufacturer. Since polysilicon is one of our major raw materials for the production of PV products in China and we obtain a portion of our polysilicon from sources outside of China, including Korea and European countries, if there is any AD or CVD imposed by MOFCOM on the polysilicon imported into China, whether retroactively or not, our cost of production for solar modules may be adversely affected. In addition, any such AD or CVD imposed on polysilicon could increase the market price of polysilicon, thereby increasing our cost of production and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Partly due to China’s anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations against the United States, Korean and European polysilicon manufacturers, polysilicon prices rebounded slightly since December 2012. We may be subject to legal proceedings in connection with the multi-year supply agreements we entered into previously and such proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management personnel. During the course of renegotiation of some of the multi-year supply agreements we entered into previously, we may be subject to legal, administrative or other proceedings if mutual agreement cannot be reached between us and our suppliers. For example, Hoku Corporation and Hoku Materials, Inc. have failed to fulfill their delivery obligations under their multi-year framework polysilicon supply agreement entered into on November 19, 2007 and refused to return our prepayment of US$49 million. On July 26, 2012, we brought a lawsuit against Hoku Corporation and Hoku Materials, Inc. for their failure to perform a multi-year framework polysilicon supply agreement entered into on November 19, 2007. On July 2, 2013, Hoku Corporation and Hoku Materials, Inc. both filed for Chapter 7 Bankruptcy. We are continuing to pursue recovery of the prepayment. See “Our Business—Legal and Administrative Proceedings”. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully defend or resolve such legal or administrative proceedings to which we are or may in the future be subject. Such legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management personnel. If there are any adverse judgments, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Prepayments we have provided to our silicon and silicon wafer suppliers expose us to the credit and performance risks of such suppliers and may not be recovered. Most of our multi-year supply agreements that we entered into during the earlier periods of supply shortage required us to make prepayments of a portion of the total contract price to our suppliers without receiving collateral for such prepayments. Hanwha SolarOne made advanced payments of RMB350.9 million, RMB314.1 million (US$50.6 million) and RMB222.2 million (US$35.8 million) to its suppliers as of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively, and Q CELLS made advance payments of US$8.7 million and US$13.1 million to its suppliers as of December 31, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Hanwha SolarOne recorded charges to cost of revenues of RMB170.0 million, RMB15.6 million (US$2.5 million) and nil in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively, to reflect the probable loss arising from the suppliers’ failure to perform under the contracts. In addition, we reclassify advances to other current assets when legal proceedings have commenced where we are claiming a breach of contract and are seeking monetary recovery of the remaining deposit. Hanwha SolarOne recorded charges to general and administrative expenses of RMB50.0 million, nil and nil in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively, to provide for losses in relation to prepayments to suppliers that were in contractual default where we have termination rights that require repayment of the remaining deposits. In the event that a supplier fails to fulfill its delivery obligation or we have disputes with any of our suppliers and we are unable to reach an agreement on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to recover our prepayments made to such suppliers. Most of our claims for prepayments are unsecured claims, which expose us to the credit risks of our suppliers in the event of their insolvency or bankruptcy. Our claims against the defaulting suppliers would rank below those of secured creditors which would undermine our chances of obtaining the return of our prepayments. If such suppliers fail to fulfill their delivery obligations under the contracts or if there is any dispute between us and such suppliers that jeopardizes our ongoing relationship, we may have to record a provision relating to or write down prepayments made to such suppliers, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our future success substantially depends on our ability to manage our production effectively, improve our product quality and reduce our manufacturing costs. Our ability to achieve such goals is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Our future success substantially depends on our ability to manage our production effectively, improve our product quality and reduce our manufacturing costs. Our efforts to reduce our manufacturing costs include lowering our silicon and auxiliary material costs and improving manufacturing productivity and processes, which requires us to achieve economies of scale by expanding and maintaining our manufacturing capacity. We currently plan to substantially expand our PV module processing capacity in Malaysia and Korea. However, we may not be able to expand our manufacturing capacity as planned, if we encounter unanticipated difficulties such as any failure to obtain the necessary financing or government approval. Even if we do expand our manufacturing capacity, there may not be sufficient customer demand for our solar power products to support our increased production levels. In that case, the overall utilization rate of our production facility will decline, which would negatively impact our profit. We have, in the past, halted expansion in response to reduced demand. For example, one of our subsidiaries, Hanwha SolarOne Technology Co., Ltd. (“Hanwha SolarOne Technology”), owns approximately 639,785 square meters of land which is currently undeveloped. If such land is identified by competent government agencies as idle land under the applicable PRC laws, Hanwha SolarOne Technology may be subject to a fine of up to 20% of the land premium of such land or, if the land is determined to be idle for over two years, the relevant government agencies may reclaim the land. In addition, since we have halted expansion, our construction plans have been adversely affected and we may need to negotiate with the construction company to develop a new construction plan. If we are unable to reach a resolution, we may be engaged in legal proceedings to resolve the dispute. 13 Table of Contents We are also exploring ways to improve the quality of our PV products including the improvement of conversion efficiency rates of our PV products. Additional research and development efforts will be required before our products in development may be manufactured and sold at a commercially viable level. We cannot guarantee that such efforts will improve the efficiency of manufacturing processes or yield improved products that are commercially viable. For example, we plan to produce multicrystalline passivated emitter rear contact (“PERC”) cells, which we sell under our “Q.ANTUM” brand and have higher conversion efficiency rates than traditional back surface field cells, at our Malaysian facilities. While we have succeeded in the commercial production of Q.ANTUM cells at our German facilities, there is no assurance that we will be successful in the commercial production of these cells at our Malaysian facilities. If we are unable to achieve these goals, we may be unable to decrease our costs per watt, to maintain our competitive position or to improve our operating margins. Our ability to achieve such goals is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: • our ability to maintain our quality level and keep pace with changes in technology; • our ability to source various raw materials on reasonable terms and timely basis; • our ability to adjust inventory levels to respond to rapidly changing market demand; • our ability to successfully position our assets to meet opportunities without incurring excessive costs; • delays in obtaining or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; and • diversion of significant management attention and other resources to other matters. If we are unable to establish or successfully make improvements to our manufacturing facilities, improve our product quality or reduce our manufacturing costs, or if we encounter any of the risks described above, we may be unable to improve our business as planned. Our downstream PV business has a relatively short history. Any failure to successfully implement our strategy to expand the downstream PV business could have a material adverse effect on our growth, results of operations and business prospects. In response to the rapidly evolving conditions in the PV industry, Q CELLS has expanded into the PV downstream business, such as solar power project development, engineering, procurement and construction services and operation and management services, since 2007, while Hanwha SolarOne started to expand into the PV downstream business in 2010. Our current business strategy includes expansion of our PV downstream business, which we believe would contribute to increasing our profit margin. This expansion requires significant investment and management attention from us, and we are likely to face intense competition from companies that have extensive experience and well-established businesses and customer bases in the PV downstream sector. We cannot guarantee that we will succeed in expanding our PV downstream business. Our ability to successfully implement our strategy to expand the PV downstream business is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including: • our relatively short history in the PV downstream business; • the need for additional capital to finance our new business operations, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; • the need to recruit additional skilled employees, including technicians and managers at different levels; • the need to grant longer credit terms to our customers and to maintain a higher level of inventory, resulting in longer cash conversion cycles compared with our traditional PV manufacturing business; 14 Table of Contents • potential conflict with our downstream customers as a result of our direct competition with them in the PV downstream business; and • new risks associated with PV downstream business yet to be fully understood by the industry and market. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, we may not be able to successfully operate our PV downstream business and achieve the expected value of vertical business integration. Any failure to successfully implement our strategy to expand the downstream PV business could have a material adverse effect on our growth, results of operations and business prospects. We may encounter various risks and uncertainties in our PV downstream business, all of which could increase our costs, delay or cancel a project, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business prospects. Historically, manufacturing of PV products accounted for most of our revenues. However, in recent years, we have increased investment in the PV downstream business, such as solar power project development, engineering, procurement and construction services and operation and management services, and we plan to develop and expand this business further. As a greater portion of our revenues is derived from our PV downstream business, we will be increasingly exposed to the risks associated with this business. Furthermore, our future success depends on our ability to expand our solar power project development pipelines, which are essential in expanding our PV downstream business. The PV downstream business involves various risks and uncertainties. We may be required to invest significant amounts of capital for land and interconnection rights, preliminary engineering, licenses and permits, legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible. Developing and completing a particular project face various risks and uncertainties, including the following: • difficulties in identifying suitable sites in a timely manner; • difficulties in securing and receiving required governmental permits, licenses and approvals, such as land use rights, construction permits and approvals and satisfactory environmental assessments; • potential challenges from local residents, environmental organizations, and others who may not support the project; • difficulties in obtaining construction financing, including debt, equity and tax credits; • difficulties in receiving rights to interconnect to the electric grid; • difficulties in paying interconnection and other deposits, some of which may be non-refundable; • difficulties in negotiating satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements; • unforeseen engineering problems; construction delays; subsurface land conditions; cost over-runs; shortage of labor, equipment and materials supply; • disruptions including labor strikes; • additional complexities when conducting project development or construction activities in foreign jurisdictions, including operating in accordance with the applicable local laws and customs; • difficulties and uncertainties in achieving expected returns or yields when we operate and manage solar projects of our own, including availability or success of various investment vehicles we may utilize such as YieldCo or Solar REIT; and • force majeure events, including adverse weather conditions and other events out of our control. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to address the above risks and uncertainties, our costs may be increased and construction of our projects may be delayed or even cancelled; therefore, our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We may be required to make significant upfront investment prior to commencing construction of solar power projects, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. It may take many months or years before our solar power plant development cycles can mature. As a result, we may be required to invest significant amounts of capital for land and interconnection rights, preliminary engineering, licenses and permits, legal and other expenses in advance of commencing construction, and the receipt of any revenue, much of which is not recognized for several additional months following contract signing. Furthermore, we may not be able to simultaneously fund our other business operations and these system investments through our long project development cycles. Our liquidity may be adversely affected to the extent the project sales market weakens or we are not able to successfully complete the customer acceptance testing due to various reasons, such as technical difficulties, equipment failure, or adverse weather, and we are unable to sell our solar projects at prices and on terms and timing that are acceptable to us. Accordingly, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. To expand our solar project development business, we must find and obtain land use rights for suitable solar project sites. Solar projects require solar conditions that can only be found in a limited number of geographic areas and project sites. Further, large utility-scale solar projects must be interconnected to electricity transmission grids in order to deliver electricity. Once we have identified a suitable solar site, our ability to obtain requisite land use rights with respect to the site is subject to growing competition from other solar power producers that may have better access to local government support, financial or other resources to locate and obtain land use rights of such sites. Our competitors may impede our development efforts by acquiring control of all or a portion of a solar site we seek to develop. If we were unable to find or obtain land use rights for suitable solar sites, our ability might be harmed to develop new solar projects on a timely basis or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of customers and countries for a high percentage of our revenues and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers or countries, if not immediately replaced, would significantly reduce our revenue and decrease our operating margins. We currently sell a substantial portion of our PV products to a limited number of customers and countries. Hanwha SolarOne’s five largest customers accounted for an aggregate of 29.8%, 53.5% and 62.0% of its net revenues in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively, and Q CELLS’ five largest customers accounted for an aggregate of 53.6% and 65.2% of its net revenues in 2013 and 2014, respectively. Hanwha SolarOne’s largest customer in 2012, 2013 and 2014 accounted for 7.6%, 25.0% and 23.2% of its net revenues, respectively, and Q CELLS’ largest customer in 2013 and 2014 accounted for an aggregate of 38.6% and 41.7% of its net revenues, respectively. Japan accounted for 6.7%, 25.0% and 23.2% of Hanwha SolarOne’s net revenues in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively, and 43.8% and 50.3% of Q CELLS’ net revenues in 2013 and 2014, respectively. Germany accounted for 40.5%, 14.7% and 14.3% of Hanwha SolarOne’s net revenues in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively, and 18.0% and 10.5% of Q CELLS’ net revenues in 2013 and 2014, respectively. In 2014, Japan, the PRC and Germany, and Japan, the United Kingdom and Germany, were the top three countries in terms of percentage contribution to net revenues of Hanwha SolarOne and Q CELLS, respectively. The loss of sales to any one of these customers or countries would have a significant negative impact on our business. 16 Table of Contents Sales to our customers are mostly made through non-exclusive arrangements. Any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our net revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; • selection by one or more of our significant customers of our competitors’ products; • loss of one or more of our significant customers and our failure to identify additional or replacement customers, including as a result of the insolvency or bankruptcy of our customers; • any adverse change in local policies toward solar projects in countries where we receive most orders; • any adverse change in the bilateral or multilateral trade relationships among China, Malaysia, Korea, Japan, the United States and European countries, particularly Germany; • any duty imposed on import of PV products as a result of anti-dumping measures or other measures against unfair trade practices; and • failure of any of our significant customers to make timely payment for our products. We expect our operating results to continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers or countries for a high percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future, as well as the ability of these customers to sell PV products and services that incorporate our PV products. Furthermore, our customer relationships have been developed over a relatively short period of time. We cannot be certain that these customers will continue to generate significant revenue for us in the future or if these customer relationships will continue to develop. If our relationships with customers do not continue to develop, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our customers and revenue. We may be unable to collect payments from our customers on a timely basis or at all. If such collection problems occur, our business may suffer and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We face payment collection difficulties with respect to certain customers. For example, on June 8, 2012, we submitted an arbitration request to Guangzhou Arbitration Commission requiring Guangdong Guo Hua New Energy Investment Co., Ltd. (“Guo Hua”), the owner of a PV project for which we acted as an engineering, procurement and construction (“EPC”) contractor, to pay a total amount of RMB92 million including, among others, overdue payment of the EPC contract price, accrued interest, damages and legal costs in accordance with the EPC contract. On August 5, 2012, Guo Hua filed a counterclaim to Guangzhou Arbitration Commission alleging that we have substantially breached the EPC contract, and Guo Hua requested to terminate the EPC contract and demanded us to pay a total amount of approximately RMB187 million for breach of contract. On September 11, 2014, Guangzhou Arbitration Commission issued their arbitral award which dismissed Guo Hua’s counterclaim for approximately RMB187 million and ordered Guo Hua to pay RMB78.2 million plus interests for late payment at the rate of 8.33‰ per month since December 20, 2010 until the RMB78.2 million is fully paid. On January 13, 2015, we filed an application to Guangdong Heyuan Court to enforce such arbitral award. See “Our Business—Legal and Administrative Proceedings”. There is no assurance that we will prevail in similar claims against our customers for payment collections and if we fail to succeed in such claims, we may not be able to recover the fees due to us, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We enter into framework agreements with many of our customers that set forth our customers’ purchase goals and the general conditions under which our sales are to be made. However, such framework agreements are only binding to the extent a purchase order for a specific amount of our products is issued. In addition, certain key sales terms of the framework agreements may be adjusted from time to time, and we have in the past re-negotiated some of our framework agreements which enabled us to address, without resorting to formal disputes, 17 Table of Contents the disagreements with our customers relating to the volumes, delivery schedules and pricing terms contained in such agreements. However, it may not always be in our best interests to re-negotiate our framework agreements and disagreements on terms may escalate into formal disputes that could cause us to experience order cancellations or harm our reputation. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for a substantial majority of silicon-related materials may prevent us from delivering our products in a timely manner to our customers in the required quantities, which could result in order cancellations, decreased revenue and loss of market share. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, Hanwha SolarOne’s five largest silicon material suppliers supplied in the aggregate 72.4%, 76.7% and 87.4% respectively, of its total silicon and silicon wafer purchases. In 2013 and 2014, Q CELLS’ five largest silicon material suppliers supplied in the aggregate 99.9% and 97.2%, respectively, of its total silicon wafer purchases. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these or our other suppliers and we are unable to obtain these materials from alternative sources in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to manufacture our products in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost, or at all, and as a result, we may not be able to deliver our products to our customers in the required quantities, at competitive prices and on acceptable terms of delivery. Problems of this kind could cause us to experience order cancellations, increased manufacturing costs, decreased revenue and loss of market share. In addition, some of our suppliers have a limited operating history and limited financial resources, and the contracts we entered into with these suppliers do not clearly provide for adequate remedies to us in the event any of these suppliers is not able to, or otherwise does not, deliver, in a timely manner or at all, any materials it is contractually obligated to deliver. Suppliers typically require a significant amount of capital to fund their operating activities, expand their manufacturing facilities, and conduct research and development activities. The inability of our suppliers to access capital or the insolvency of our suppliers could lead to their failure to deliver silicon materials to us. Any disruption in the supply of silicon materials to us may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to obtain sufficient quantities of silicon-related materials in a timely manner could disrupt our operations, prevent us from operating at full capacity or limit our ability to expand as planned, which would reduce, and limit the growth of, our manufacturing output and revenue. We depend on the timely delivery by our suppliers of silicon-related materials in sufficient volumes. Until mid-2008, there was an industry-wide shortage of silicon-related materials. Currently, the market is experiencing an over-capacity of silicon-related materials. While we do not believe a shortage of silicon-related materials will reoccur in the short term because of current market conditions and the expansion of silicon and silicon wafer manufacturing capacity in recent years, we cannot guarantee that market conditions will not again rapidly change or we will always be able to obtain sufficient quantities of silicon-related materials in a timely manner and at commercially reasonable prices. We may experience actual shortages of silicon-related materials or late or failed delivery for the following reasons: • the terms of our silicon and silicon wafer contracts with, or purchase orders to, our suppliers may be altered or cancelled as a result of our ongoing re-negotiations with them; • there are a limited number of silicon and silicon wafer suppliers, and many of our competitors also purchase silicon-related materials from these suppliers and may have longer and stronger relationship with these suppliers than we do; • some of our silicon and silicon wafer suppliers do not manufacture silicon themselves, but instead purchase their requirements from other vendors. It is possible that these suppliers will not be able to obtain sufficient silicon or silicon wafers to satisfy their contractual obligations to us; and • our purchase of silicon-related materials is subject to the business risk of our suppliers, one or more of which may go out of business for any one of a number of reasons beyond our control in the current economic environment. 18 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain delivery of silicon-related materials in amounts and according to time schedules that we expect, we may be forced to reduce production, which will adversely affect our revenues. Our failure to obtain the required amounts of silicon-related materials on time and at commercially reasonable prices could substantially limit our ability to meet our contractual obligations to deliver PV products to our customers. Any failure by us to meet such obligations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, retention of customers, market share, business and results of operations and may subject us to claims from our customers and other disputes. We currently have a significant amount of debt outstanding and can incur additional indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness may limit our future financing capabilities and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The principal amount of Hanwha SolarOne’s total bank borrowings outstanding was RMB4,491.7 million (US$723.9 million) as of December 31, 2014, of which RMB1,363.6 million (US$219.8 million) were short-term bank borrowings and RMB1,578.7 million (US$254.4 million) were the current portion of long-term bank borrowings. In addition, Hanwha SolarOne had RMB611.9 million (US$98.6 million) in long-term notes as of December 31, 2014. The principal amount of Q CELLS’ total bank borrowings outstanding was US$119.5 million as of December 31, 2014 and it had MYR850 million (US$241.3 million, translated at the rate of 0.2859 U.S. dollar per one Malaysian Ringgit) in principal amount of long-term loan from the Malaysian government with a book value of US$165.3 million as of December 31, 2014. We may also incur additional indebtedness. Our debt could have a significant impact on our future operations and cash flow, including: • making it more difficult for us to fulfill payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt, including repayment of our long- and short-term credit facilities should we be unable to obtain extensions for any such facilities before they mature; • triggering an event of default, if we fail to comply with any of our payment or other obligations contained in our debt agreements and fail to obtain waivers, which could result in cross-defaults causing all or a substantial portion of our debt to become immediately due and payable and other penalties; • reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and adversely affecting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • potentially increasing the cost of any additional financing; and • putting pressure on the ADS price due to concerns of our inability to repay our debt and making it more difficult for us to conduct equity financings in the capital markets. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future or to refinance such debt. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to meet our obligations under our outstanding debt and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet such obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, to sell our assets, to reduce or delay our capital investments, or to seek additional equity or debt financing. We cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased interest rate risk and debt service obligations, and could result in operating and financing covenants that would further restrict our operations and limit our ability to obtain the financing required to fund future capital expenditures and working capital. As a result, our ability to plan for, or react effectively to, changing market conditions may be adversely and materially affected. In addition, a significant portion of our outstanding debt has been guaranteed by Hanwha Chemical in the past. However, the ability of Hanwha Chemical to guarantee our future financings is subject to various 19 Table of Contents uncertainties, including its own financial condition and potential regulatory restrictions. If Hanwha Chemical cannot guarantee our future financings, our ability to obtain external financing could be adversely affected. We require a significant amount of capital to fund our operations as well as meet future capital and investment requirements. If we cannot obtain additional capital when we need it, our operations, growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We typically require a significant amount of capital to fund our operations. We expect that our capital expenditures would substantially increase in 2015 to approximately US$215 million, which will be primarily used to construct new PV module processing facilities in Malaysia and Korea, as well as to automate our existing manufacturing lines in China and upgrade our PV cell manufacturing facilities in Malaysia. In addition, we expect to invest approximately US$150 million in our PV downstream business in 2015. We also require cash generally to meet future capital requirements, which are difficult to plan in the rapidly changing PV industry. While we plan to fund our future capital and investment requirements with cash from operations, proceeds from our securities offerings, bank borrowings and other forms of financing, if necessary, we cannot guarantee that future financing will be available on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by manufacturers of PV and related products; and • economic, political and other conditions in the PRC, Korea, Germany, Malaysia and elsewhere in the world. If we are unable to obtain necessary financing in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, our growth prospects and future profitability may decrease materially. Certain of our loan agreements and other debt instruments contain financial covenants that require the borrower or its guarantor to maintain certain financial ratios, and the failure to maintain such ratios could result in the acceleration of the maturity of our debt. Certain of our subsidiaries have outstanding bank loans and other debt instruments that require such subsidiary or its guarantor, Hanwha Chemical, to maintain certain financial ratios that are tested semi-annually. Such debt instruments also contain standard cross-default provisions under which an event of default under one such instrument would trigger a right to accelerate payment under another instrument. From time to time there have been a few instances where these financial ratios have not been met at the relevant measurement dates. In such cases, we have obtained waivers from the lenders to cure such defaults and avoid cross-acceleration of other debt instruments. In the future, we or our guarantor may similarly fail to maintain such financial ratios or violate other covenants contained in such debt instruments, and may not be able to obtain waivers for or otherwise cure such defaults, which may cause our indebtedness to become immediately due and payable. Our future success also depends on our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments and to establish and maintain strategic alliances, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our market penetration, revenue growth and profitability. In addition, such strategic acquisitions, alliances and investments themselves entail significant risks that could materially and adversely affect our business. In February 2015, we acquired 100% of the outstanding share capital of Q CELLS from Hanwha Solar in exchange for issuing our new ordinary shares to Hanwha Solar, which increased Hanwha Solar’s ownership of our ordinary shares from approximately 45.7% to approximately 94.0%. The acquisition entails significant risks as described under “—Risks Related to Our Acquisition of Q CELLS.” 20 Table of Contents In addition, we are pursuing expansion into PV downstream business and we may also establish strategic alliances with third parties in the PV industry to develop new technologies and to expand our marketing channels. These types of transactions could require that our management develop expertise in new areas, make significant investments in research and development, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. They would also require significant attention from our management, which could distract our management’s attention away from our existing business. We may also experience difficulties integrating acquisitions and investments into our existing business and operations and retaining key technical and managerial personnel of acquired companies. Strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances with third parties may be expensive to implement and could also subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information and loss of control of operations that are material to our business. We may assume unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances through acquisitions and investments. Moreover, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances subject us to the risk of non-performance by our counterparties to such arrangements, which may in turn lead to monetary losses that materially and adversely affect our business. As a result, we may not be able to successfully make such strategic acquisitions and investments or to establish strategic alliances with third parties that will be effective or beneficial for our business. Any difficulty or failure we face in this regard could have a material adverse effect on our market penetration, results of operations and profitability. Problems with product quality or product performance could result in a decrease in customers and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. In addition, product liability or warranty claims against us could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages. Both Hanwha SolarOne and Q CELLS have provided long-term warranties for their PV products that are standard in the solar industry. Prior to 2012, Hanwha SolarOne’s PV products were typically sold with a 2 to 5-year warranty for technical defects, and a 10-year limited performance warranty against declines of greater than 10%, and a 20 to 25-year limited warranty against declines of greater than 20%, in their initial power generation capacity. Since January 2012, Hanwha SolarOne started to extend its material and workmanship warranty for PV modules to 12 years and replaced its existing warranty for power generation capacity with an improved 25-year linear warranty. Under the new 25-year linear warranty, Hanwha SolarOne guarantees no less than 97% of the nominal power generation capacity for its typical multicrystalline PV modules and 96% of the nominal power generation capacity for its typical monocrystalline PV modules in the first year, and an annual output degradation of no more than 0.7% thereafter. By the end of the 25th year, the actual power output shall be no less than 82% of the nominal power generation capacity. Q CELLS has provided material and workmanship warranty for its PV products for a period of 12 years and provided performance warranty for its PV modules for a period of 25 years. Under the 25-year performance warranty, in the first year, Q CELLS guarantees no less than 97% of the nominal power generation capacity for its PV modules and an annual output degradation of no more than 0.6% thereafter. By the end of the 25th year, the actual power output shall be no less than 83% of the nominal power generation capacity. Our warranties may be transferred to third parties who purchase our PV modules. Since our products have been in use for only a relatively short period, our assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our products may not be accurate. In particular, the performance of newly developed products may be especially difficult to predict. We consider various factors when determining the likelihood of product defects, including an evaluation of our quality controls, technical analysis, industry information on comparable companies and our own experience. We estimate the amount of our warranty obligation primarily based on the results of technical analyses, our historical warranty claims experience, the warranty accrual practices of comparable companies, and the expected failure rate and future costs to service failed products. The estimate of warranty costs is affected by the estimated and actual product failure rates, the costs to repair or replace failed products and potential service and delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Based on the considerations above and management’s ability and intention to provide repairs, replacements or refunds for defective products, Hanwha SolarOne has accrued warranty costs based on 1% of revenue for PV modules, while Q CELLS has accrued warranty costs based on 0.5% of number of PV modules sold (which was decreased from 21 Table of Contents 2.5% starting from the second half of 2013). The basis for the warranty accrual will be reviewed periodically based on actual experience. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, Hanwha SolarOne incurred warranty costs of RMB33.1 million, RMB41.3 million (US$6.7 million) and RMB42.1 million (US$6.8 million), respectively. In 2013 and 2014, Q CELLS incurred warranty costs of US$12.1 million and US$4.9 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, Hanwha SolarOne’s accrued warranty provision totaled RMB177.9 million, RMB181.4 million (US$29.2 million) and RMB176.3 million (US$28.4 million), respectively. As of December 31, 2013 and 2014, Q CELLS’ accrued warranty provisions totaled US$29.0 million and US$27.5 million, respectively. If our PV modules fail to perform to the standards of the performance guarantee, we could incur substantial expenses and substantial cash outlays to repair, replace or provide refunds for the under-performing products, which could negatively impact our overall cash position. In addition, we may also suffer increased accounts receivables, as customers in certain circumstances refuse to accept and pay for defective products. Any increase in the defect rate of our products would increase the amount of our warranty costs and we may not have adequate warranty provision to cover such warranty costs, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. We may also incur significant expenses to defend any claims based on the warranty against defects. For example, on September 30, 2014, a European customer initiated arbitration proceedings against Hanwha SolarOne (Qidong) Co., Ltd., one of our subsidiaries, under the rules of the London Court of International Arbitration. In its initial pleading, the European customer alleged that certain solar modules it purchased from SolarOne Qidong between 2009 and 2011 were defective, claiming total damages of approximately US$240 million, comprised of purchase price adjustments and damages, as well as indemnification against any liability arising from the European customer’s sale of such modules to end customers. On November 7, 2014, SolarOne Qidong filed its response to the European customer’s request for arbitration. On December 10, 2014, the European customer filed its statement of case. On January 23, 2015, SolarOne Qidong filed its statement of defense. In each of its filings, SolarOne Qidong has denied all liability for the claims asserted against it. SolarOne Qidong intends to defend vigorously against the claims asserted in the arbitration. A hearing is currently scheduled to be held in May 2016. In addition, we purchase silicon-related materials and other components that we use in our products from third parties. Unlike PV modules, which are subject to certain uniform international standards, silicon-related materials generally do not have uniform international standards, and it is often difficult to determine whether product defects are caused by defects in silicon, silicon wafers or other components of our products or caused by other reasons. Even assuming that our product defects are caused by defects in raw materials, we may not be able to recover our warranty costs from our suppliers because the agreements we entered into with our suppliers typically contain no or only limited warranties. The possibility of future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expense to provide refunds or resolve disputes with regard to warranty claims through litigation, arbitration or other means, or damage our market reputation and cause our sales to decline. As with other PV product manufacturers, we are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims if the use of the PV products we sell results in injury, death or damage to property. We cannot predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business. See “—We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from business interruptions or product liability claims.” One of our existing shareholders has substantial influence over our company and its interests may not always be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Hanwha Solar owns approximately 94.0% of our outstanding share capital, as of the date of this annual report. Hanwha Solar has substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant 22 Table of Contents corporate actions, and has appointed a majority of our directors. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for its shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of the ADSs. In addition, without the consent of Hanwha Solar, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. Hanwha Solar may cause us to take actions that are opposed by other shareholders as its interests may differ from those of other shareholders. Hanwha Group, a business group that controls Hanwha Solar, also has several subsidiaries in the solar industry. We depend to a certain extent on the support of Hanwha Group. For example, entities of Hanwha Group are our existing customers and we may also source raw materials from entities of Hanwha Group in the future. If Hanwha Group reduces its shareholding in our company or chooses to devote resources to other priorities, such as other companies in which it holds interests, including other companies in the solar industry, for any reason and not to us, our results of operations could be adversely affected. How Hanwha Group positions our company among its subsidiaries and other investments could have a material impact on our results of operations. Hanwha Group’s strategic plan involving our company may not always be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Our business involves significant amount of related party transactions. We are party to significant related party transactions between us and other member companies of Hanwha Group under which we, among other things, purchase raw materials and sell our PV products for distribution. Such transactions may be challenged by tax authorities if such transactions are viewed as having been made on terms that were not on an arm’s-length basis. Furthermore, in some instances we may not be able to discontinue such related party transactions even if we have better business opportunities with non-affiliated parties. If the related party transactions we are engaged do not benefit us as other available alternative transactions with non-affiliates would, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. Nevertheless, these afford only limited protection and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. In particular, implementation of intellectual property-related laws in certain countries in which we operate our business, including China, has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the relevant laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in these countries may not be as effective as in the United States or other developed countries. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technologies can be difficult and expensive. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We also cannot assure you that the outcome of any such litigation would be in our favor. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. Furthermore, any such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention away from our business as well as require us to expend other resources. We have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely against us, could disrupt our business and subject us to significant liability to third parties, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use and develop our technologies and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. As we continue to market and sell our products internationally, and as disputes involving intellectual property become more common, we face a higher risk of 23 Table of Contents being the subject of claims for intellectual property infringement, as well as having indemnification relating to other parties’ proprietary rights held to be invalid. Our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have or may obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in the European Union, the United States, Japan, the PRC or other countries. The validity and scope of claims relating to PV technology patents involve complex, scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. In addition, the defense of intellectual property claims, including patent infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming, and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such litigation or proceeding to which we may become a party could cause us to: • pay damage awards; • seek licenses from third parties; • pay ongoing royalties; • redesign our products; or • be restricted by injunctions, each of which could effectively prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business and result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain sufficient patent protection on the technologies embodied in the PV products we currently manufacture and sell, which could reduce our competitiveness and increase our expenses. Although we rely primarily on trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect the technologies in the PV cells and PV modules we currently manufacture and sell, our success and ability to compete in the future may also depend to a significant degree on obtaining patent protection for our proprietary technologies. As of the date of this annual report, we had been granted 57 patents and 32 patent applications pending in China, 30 patents and 62 patent applications pending in Germany and 33 patents and 57 patent applications pending in other countries. Because the protections afforded by our patents are effective only in the jurisdiction where we have registered our patents, our competitors and other companies may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies, and obtain patents for such technologies in other jurisdictions, including the countries in which we sell our products. Moreover, our patent applications may not result in issued patents, and even if they do result in issued patents, the patents may not have claims of the scope we seek. In addition, any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable. As a result, our present and future patents may provide only limited protection for our technologies, and may not be sufficient to provide competitive advantages to us. We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth may be severely disrupted if we lose their services or fail to recruit new qualified personnel. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of some of our directors and key executives. If we lose the services of one or more of our current directors and executive officers, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all, with suitable or qualified candidates, and may incur additional time and expenses to recruit, retain and integrate new directors and officers, particularly those with a significant PV industry experience similar to our current directors and officers, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. In particular, Seong Woo Nam, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jung Pyo Seo, Director and Chief Financial Officer, Dong Kwan Kim, Director and Chief Commercial Officer, and Jin Seog Choi, Director and Chief Technology Officer, have been crucial to the development of our strategic direction. In addition, if any 24 Table of Contents of our directors or executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Each of the executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any disputes arise between these directors or executive officers and us, it is not clear the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced outside of the United States, where most of these directors and executive officers reside and hold some of their assets. Furthermore, as we expect to continue to expand our operations and develop new products, we will need to continue attracting and retaining experienced management and key research and development personnel. Competition for personnel in the PV industry is intense, and the availability of suitable and qualified candidates is limited. In particular, we compete to attract and retain qualified research and development personnel with other PV technology companies, universities and research institutions. Competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also be unable to attract or retain the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives, and any failure in this regard could severely disrupt our business and growth. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the market price of the ADSs. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) adopted rules requiring most public companies to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, when a company meets the SEC’s criteria, an independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management and independent registered public accounting firm have concluded that the internal control over financial reporting of Hanwha SolarOne as of December 31, 2014 was effective. However, we cannot guarantee that in the future our management or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify material weaknesses during the Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act audit process or for other reasons. In addition, because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or should we be unable to prevent or detect material misstatements due to error or fraud on a timely basis, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business, results of operations and negatively impact the market price of the ADSs, and harm our reputation. Furthermore, we have incurred and expected to continue to incur considerable costs and to use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from business interruptions or product liability claims. We are subject to risk of explosion and fires, as highly flammable gases, such as silane and nitrogen gas, are generated in our manufacturing processes. While we have not experienced to date any major explosion or fire, the risks associated with these gases cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, natural disasters such as floods or earthquakes, or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruption, telecommunications failures, equipment failures, explosions, fires, break-ins, terrorist attacks or acts of war, could significantly disrupt our ability to manufacture our products and to operate our business. If any of our production facilities or material equipment were to experience any significant damage or downtime, we might be unable to meet our production targets and our business could suffer. Although we have obtained business interruption insurance, the coverage of such insurance is limited and it may not be able to fully cover losses caused by the business interruption. 25 Table of Contents We are also exposed to risks associated with product liability claims in the event that the use of the PV products we sell results in injury, death or damage to property. Due to limited historical experience, we are unable to predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. Moreover, we only have limited product liability insurance and may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any environmental claims or failure to comply with any present or future environmental regulations may require us to spend additional funds and may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of chemical by products of, and water used in, our manufacturing operations and research and development activities, including toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes. Although we have not suffered material environmental claims in the past, failure to comply with any present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production or a cessation of our operations. New regulations could also require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspension of our business, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. The use of certain hazardous substances, such as lead, in various products is also coming under increasingly stringent governmental regulation. Increased environmental regulation in this area could adversely impact the manufacture and sale of solar modules that contain lead and could require us to make unanticipated environmental expenditures. For example, the European Union Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (the “WEEE Directive”) requires manufacturers of certain electrical and electronic equipment to be financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of specified products placed on the market in the European Union. In addition, European Union Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the use of Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment (the “RoHS Directive”) restricts the use of certain hazardous substances, including lead, in specified products. Other jurisdictions are considering adopting similar legislation. Failure to comply with the Directives could result in fines and penalties, inability to sell our PV products in the European Union, competitive disadvantages and loss of net sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our International Operations Our significant international operations expose us to a number of risks, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We operate our primary manufacturing facilities in China and Malaysia, while we have our executive headquarters in Korea which relocated from China and have significant research and development operations in Germany. We sell our PV products and engage in PV downstream business internationally in all major markets, including the United States, Japan, Europe and China. Our significant international operations, including the production, marketing, distribution and sale of our PV products and services in many different countries expose us to a number of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates among various currencies, including the U.S. dollar, Renminbi, Euro, Japanese Yen, Malaysian Ringgit and Korean Won; • difficulty and costs relating to compliance with different commercial, legal, regulatory and tax requirements in various countries in which we operate; 26 Table of Contents • difficulty in engaging and retaining distributors and agents who are knowledgeable about, and can function effectively in, various countries and markets; • increased costs associated with maintaining marketing, sales and customer service activities in various countries; • difficulty in, and increased cost of, managing supply chains and logistics across various countries; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and • trade barriers, such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our ability to conduct or expand our business globally would be impaired, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business as well as result in foreign currency exchange losses. Hanwha SolarOne’s historical financial statements are expressed in Renminbi, while Q CELLS’ historical financial statements are expressed in U.S. dollars. Starting with our 2015 financial statements, we plan to present our consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars, which will be prepared from the local currency-denominated financial results, assets and liabilities of us and our subsidiaries globally, which would then be translated as necessary into U.S. dollars. Accordingly, our consolidated financial results and assets and liabilities may be materially affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly among the U.S. dollar, Renminbi, Euro, Japanese Yen and Malaysian Ringgit. A substantial portion of our sales is denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros and Japanese Yen, while a substantial portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, Malaysian Ringgit and Euro. To the extent that we incur costs in one currency and make revenue in another, our profit margins may be affected by changes in the exchange rates between the two currencies. Exchange rate fluctuations can also affect the value of our assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies. In recent years, the exchange rates among Renminbi, the U.S. dollars, Japanese Yen and Euro have fluctuated significantly. In 2014, the Japanese Yen and Euro have significantly depreciated against Renminbi and the U.S. dollars and other currencies, which had a negative impact on our profit margin as a substantial portion of our sales is denominated in Japanese Yen and Euros. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our financial condition and results of operations, and we may incur net foreign currency losses in the future. To the extent our foreign currency receivables are not matched with our foreign currency payables, we have entered into economic hedging transactions to mitigate the impact of short-term foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. Although the impact of exchange rate fluctuations has in the past been partially mitigated by such transactions, our results of operations have historically been affected by exchange rate fluctuations and may continue to be affected. The effectiveness of our hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge all of our exposure. In addition, our estimates of future revenues that are denominated in foreign currencies may not be accurate, which could result in foreign exchange losses. Any default by the counterparties to these hedging transactions could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse changes in political, economic and regulatory policies in countries where we have significant operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China, Malaysia, Germany and Korea and some of our sales are made in these countries. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and 27 Table of Contents prospects are affected significantly by political, economic and regulatory developments in these countries. Such developments include the introduction of new or more stringent labor and environmental regulations, increase in tax, increase in restrictions on the conduct of business and changes in interest rates, among others. Other political uncertainties include the risks of wars, terrorism, nationalization and expropriation. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue effectively. A portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, SolarOne Qidong may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”). However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by SolarOne Qidong under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC governmental authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if SolarOne Qidong borrows foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance SolarOne Qidong by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the National Development and Reform Commission (the “NDRC”), the Ministry of Commerce or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of SolarOne Qidong to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. In addition, our operations in Malaysia are affected by foreign exchange policies of Malaysia which support the monitoring of capital flows into and out of the country in order to preserve its financial and economic stability. The foreign exchange policies are administered by the Foreign Exchange Administration, an arm of Bank Negara Malaysia which is the central bank of Malaysia. Under the current regulations issued by Bank Negara Malaysia, non-residents are free to repatriate any amount of funds in Malaysia at any time, including capital, divestment proceeds, profits, dividends, rental, fees and interest arising from investment in Malaysia, subject to the applicable reporting requirements, and any withholding tax. However, in the event Bank Negara Malaysia introduces any restrictions in the future, we may be affected in our ability to repatriate dividends or distributions from our Malaysian subsidiaries. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Adverse public health epidemics or pandemics could disrupt business and the economics of the PRC and other countries where we do business. In 2009, there were outbreaks of swine flu, caused by H1N1 virus, in certain regions of the world, including China. In the past few years, there were reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. In April 2013, there were reports of cases of H7N9 avian flu in southeast China, including deaths in Shanghai and Zhejiang Province. Any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (“SARS”), avian flu, swine flu or other similar adverse public developments in China may, among other things, significantly disrupt our business, including limiting our ability to travel or ship our products within or outside China and forcing us to temporary close our manufacturing facilities. Furthermore, an outbreak may severely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. 28 Table of Contents You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company headquartered in Korea and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC, Germany, Malaysia and Korea. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands, the PRC, Germany, Malaysia or Korea would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. Labor laws in the jurisdictions where we operate may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to the local labor and employment laws of various jurisdictions in which we operate. For example, in Germany, our employees are covered by various labor laws that provide employees, through works councils, with rights of information and consultation with respect to specific matters involving their employer’s business and operations, including downsizing or closure of facilities and employment terminations. The German worker protection laws could impair our flexibility in streamlining or restructuring our business operations in Germany. In China, as required by PRC regulations, we participate in various employee benefit plans that are organized by municipal and provincial governments, including housing, pension, medical and unemployment benefit plans. We are required under PRC law to make contributions to the employee benefit plans at specified percentages of the salaries, bonuses and certain allowances of our employees, up to a maximum amount specified by the local government from time to time. Members of the retirement plan are entitled to a pension equal to a fixed proportion of their salaries. In Malaysia, we employ a substantial number of foreign nationals as temporary workers and the employment of such foreign nationals requires approval by the Ministry of Home Affairs of Malaysia, which may impose conditions on the number, positions, duration of employment and the country of origin of the foreign workers. In particular, on June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated the Labor Contract Law of the PRC (the “Labor Contract Law”), which became effective on January 1, 2008. On December 28, 2012, the PRC government promulgated the amendment to the Labor Contract Law, and such amendment became effective on July 1, 2013. The Labor Contract Law, as amended, imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly impacts the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires certain terminations to be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the Labor Contract Law, as amended, could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost-effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. On January 14, 2014, the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security of the PRC promulgated the Interim Provisions on Labor Dispatch (“Provisions on Labor Dispatch”), which took effect on March 1, 2014. The Provisions on Labor Dispatch provides, among other things, that an employer can hire temporary employees only for temporary, auxiliary and replaceable jobs. The number of temporary employees cannot exceed 10% of the total workforce. If the number of temporary employees exceeds 10% of the total workforce as of March 1, 2014, the employer shall, as a principle, adjust its employment plan and ensure such percentage be reduced to 10% or below no later than March 1, 2016. Before such percentage is adjusted to 10% or below, the employer shall not hire any new temporary employees. Our number of temporary employees is currently over 10% of our total workforce. We may not be able to reduce such percentage to 10% or below prior to March 1, 2016. As a result, we may not be able to retain any additional temporary employees and such inability to retain additional temporary employees could render us less competitive than other manufacturers, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. 29 Table of Contents Special Risks Related to Our Chinese Operations Our business benefits from certain PRC government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. On March 16, 2007, the PRC government promulgated the Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Enterprise Income Tax (the “EIT”), which took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT, domestically owned enterprises and foreign invested enterprises (“FIEs”) are subject to a uniform tax rate of 25%. While the EIT equalizes the tax rates for FIEs and domestically owned enterprises, preferential tax treatment continues to be granted to companies in certain encouraged sectors, and entities classified as “high and new technology enterprises” are entitled to a 15% EIT rate, whether domestically owned enterprises or FIEs. The EIT also provided a five-year transition period starting from its effective date for those enterprises which were established before the promulgation date of the EIT and which were entitled to a preferential lower tax rate or tax holiday under the then effective tax laws or regulations. The tax rate of such enterprises transitioned to the uniform tax rate within a five-year transition period and the tax holiday, which was enjoyed by such enterprises before the effective date of the EIT, continued to be enjoyed until the end of the holiday. SolarOne Qidong was approved to be qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” on October 21, 2008. The “high and new technology enterprise” status is valid for a period of three years from the date of issuance of the certificate and is subject to an annual self-review process whereby a form is submitted to relevant tax authority for approval to use a beneficial income tax rate. If there are significant changes in the business operations, manufacturing technologies or other criteria that cause the enterprise to no longer meet the criteria as a “high and new technology enterprise,” such status will be terminated from the year of such change. SolarOne Qidong has applied, and is currently waiting, for the renewal of its status as a “high and new technology enterprise” by the PRC government. If SolarOne Qidong fails to qualify as a “high and new technology enterprise” in future periods, our income tax expenses would increase, which could have a material and adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. Any reduction or elimination of the preferential tax treatments currently enjoyed by us may significantly increase our income tax expense and materially reduce our net income, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face uncertainty with respect to the implementation of the PV Manufacturing Industry Qualification Standards in China. On July 4, 2013, the China’s State Council issued the Several Opinions on Promoting the Healthy Development of the PV Industry, regulating the PV industry in China. In addition, on September 16, 2013, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of the PRC (“MIIT”), issued the PV Manufacturing Industry Qualification Standards, which became effective as of October 16, 2013. The MIIT standards outline certain requirements for PV manufacturers in China, aiming to reduce the overcapacity of production and promote the healthy development of the industry. For example, the MIIT standards provide detailed requirements for product quality and energy consumption and require that PV manufacturers invest no less than 3% of their annual total sales, and at least a minimum of RMB10 million, in their research and development activities and technology upgrades each year. New manufactures which fail to comply with the relevant requirements under the MIIT standards will not be approved for investment. Existing manufacturers which fail to comply with the relevant requirements will not be entitled to enjoy certain government preferential policies, such as the export tax rebate and domestic financial subsidies. On October 11, 2013, the MIIT issued the Tentative Measures for Management of the Qualification Publication of the PV Manufacturing Industry. Under the tentative measures, a PV manufacturer meeting the industry qualification standards required by the MIIT may apply for pre-review of its qualification status by the provincial counterpart of the MIIT, which, upon completion of its pre-review, will submit the application to the MIIT for final review and certification. Upon the certification by the MIIT, the PV manufacturer will be published as a “Qualified PV Manufacturing Enterprise” periodically. A qualified PV manufacturing enterprise 30 Table of Contents can also be disqualified and delisted from qualification publication by the MIIT in the event that the enterprise no longer complies with the MIIT standards. On December 30, 2013, SolarOne Qidong was certified by the MIIT as a “Qualified PV Manufacturing Enterprise”. Limitations on the ability of our Chinese operating subsidiary to pay dividends or other distributions to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our business in China through our Chinese operating subsidiary, SolarOne Qidong, which is a limited liability company established in China. The payment of dividends, if any, by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. In particular, regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. SolarOne Qidong is also required to set aside at least 10% of its annual after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, SolarOne Qidong is required to allocate a portion of its after-tax profit to its staff welfare and bonus fund at the discretion of its board of directors. Moreover, if SolarOne Qidong incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 (the “SAFE notice”), requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising fund from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC shareholder of any offshore special purpose company fails to make the required SAFE registration and amendment, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore special purpose company. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC residents have registered with the local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE notice. The failure of these beneficial owners to amend their SAFE registrations in a timely manner pursuant to the SAFE notice or the failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE notice may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also result in a restriction on our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, the NDRC promulgated a rule in October 2004, or the NDRC Rule, requiring overseas investment projects made by PRC entities to be approved by NDRC. The NDRC Rule also sets out the approval procedures for overseas investment projects of PRC individuals. However, uncertainties in terms of interpretation of the NDRC Rule with respect to its application to a PRC individual’s overseas investment remain, and in practice, we are not aware of any precedents that a PRC individual’s overseas investment has been approved by the NDRC or challenged by the NDRC based on the absence of an NDRC approval. We cannot predict how and to what extent this will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, the failure of our shareholders who are PRC individuals to comply with the NDRC Rule may subject these persons or our PRC subsidiary to certain liabilities under PRC laws, which could adversely affect our business. 31 Table of Contents We face uncertainties with respect to application of PRC tax rules on indirect transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise. On February 3, 2015, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Bulletin on Issues of Enterprise Income Tax on Indirect Transfers of Assets by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises (“Bulletin 7”), which partially replaced previous rules under the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises (“Circular 698”) issued by the State Administration of Taxation on December 10, 2009. Pursuant to Bulletin 7, an “indirect transfer” of assets, including equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise, by non-PRC resident enterprises may be recharacterized and treated as a direct transfer of PRC taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of avoiding payment of PRC enterprise income tax. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax. According to Bulletin 7, “PRC taxable assets” include assets attributed to an establishment in China, immoveable properties located in China, and equity investments in PRC resident enterprises, in respect of which gains from their transfer by a direct holder, being a non-PRC resident enterprise, would be subject to PRC enterprise income taxes. When determining whether there is a “reasonable commercial purpose” of the transaction arrangement, features to be taken into consideration include: whether the main value of the equity interest of the relevant offshore enterprise derives from PRC taxable assets; whether the assets of the relevant offshore enterprise mainly consists of direct or indirect investment in China or if its income mainly derives from China; whether the offshore enterprise and its subsidiaries directly or indirectly holding PRC taxable assets have real commercial nature which is evidenced by their actual function and risk exposure; the duration of existence of the business model and organizational structure; the replicability of the transaction by direct transfer of PRC taxable assets; and the tax situation of such indirect transfer and applicable tax treaties or similar arrangements. In respect of an indirect offshore transfer of assets of a PRC establishment, the resulting gain is to be included with the enterprise income tax filing of the PRC establishment or place of business being transferred, and would consequently be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Where the underlying transfer relates to the immoveable properties located in China or to equity investments in a PRC resident enterprise, which is not related to a PRC establishment or place of business of a non-resident enterprise, a PRC enterprise income tax at 10% would apply, subject to available preferential tax treatment under applicable tax treaties or similar arrangements, and the party who is obligated to make the transfer payments has the withholding obligation. Where the payer fails to withhold any or sufficient tax, the transferor shall declare and pay such tax to the tax authority by itself within the statutory time limit. Late payment of applicable tax will subject the transferor to default interest. Bulletin 7 does not apply to transactions of sale of shares by investors through a public stock exchange where such shares were acquired from a transaction through a public stock exchange. There is uncertainty as to the application of Bulletin 7, or previous rules under Circular 698. Especially as Bulletin 7 is lately promulgated, it is not clear how it will be implemented. If we transfer our equity interest in our PRC subsidiaries or when our non-resident investors transfer their shares, we or our non-resident investors may be taxed under Bulletin 7 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Bulletin 7 or to establish that we or our non-resident investors should not be taxed under Bulletin 7, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or such non-resident investors’ investment in us. Hanwha SolarOne’s auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “PCAOB”), and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP, Hanwha SolarOne’s independent registered public accounting firm that issued the audit reports included in Hanwha SolarOne’s annual reports filed with the SEC and in this annual report, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP is located in China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the 32 Table of Contents approval of the PRC authorities, it, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by the PCAOB. In May 2013, the PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”) and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by the PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. The PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with the PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of the PCAOB inspections. We may be adversely affected by the outcome of the administrative proceedings brought by the SEC against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms. In December 2012, the SEC brought administrative proceedings against the Big Four accounting firms in China, including Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP, Hanwha SolarOne’s independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these accounting firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ audit papers and other documents related to certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. On January 22, 2014, the Administrative Law Judge presiding over the matter reached an initial decision that the firms had each violated the SEC’s rules of practice by failing to produce the audit work papers and related documents directly to the SEC. The initial decision further determined that each of the firms should be censured and barred from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The Big Four PRC-based accounting firms appealed the initial administrative law decision to the SEC in February 2014. In February 2015, each of the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC. The settlement requires the firms to follow detailed procedures to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms’ audit documents via China Securities Regulatory Commission. If the firms do not follow these procedures, the SEC could impose penalties such as suspensions, or it could restart the administrative proceedings. If the SEC imposes penalties such as suspension on Hanwha SolarOne’s independent registered public accounting firm as a result of its violation of the procedures agreed in the settlement with the SEC, and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on Hanwha SolarOne’s financial statements, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such a determination could ultimately lead to our delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of the ADSs in the United States. Risks Related to Our Acquisition of Q CELLS We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Q CELLS or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating Hanwha SolarOne’s and Q CELLS’ businesses. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Q CELLS, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies, revenue synergies, innovation, sharing of best practices and a 33 Table of Contents strengthened market position that may serve as a platform for future growth, will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the businesses of Hanwha SolarOne and Q CELLS. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Hanwha SolarOne and Q CELLS. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively or if impacted by unforeseen negative economic or market conditions or other factors, we may not realize the full anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Q CELLS. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Q CELLS could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined business and could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships and diversion of management’s attention. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: • the diversion of management’s attention to integration matters; • difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; • difficulties in the assimilation of employees; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights in a larger company across multiple jurisdictions; • difficulties in maintaining the quality of our products and our brand value across our expanded product offerings; • unforeseen risk of adverse regulatory impact of the acquisition, such as the new imposition of, or an increase in, anti-dumping or countervailing duties on certain of our products; • challenges in keeping existing customers, obtaining new customers and minimizing any potential cannibalization between our product offerings; and • challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel. Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if the operations of the businesses of Hanwha SolarOne and Q CELLS are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition, including cost savings or growth opportunities that we expect within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Furthermore, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of Hanwha SolarOne and Q CELLS. All of these factors could negatively impact our results of operations, decrease or delay the expected benefit of the acquisition, and negatively impact the market price of our ADS. As a result, we cannot guarantee that the combination of the Hanwha SolarOne and Q CELLS businesses will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the acquisition. Q CELLS has a relatively short history out of bankruptcy proceedings. If Q CELLS is found liable for matters related to the bankruptcy proceedings, its financial condition and results of operations may suffer materially. Q CELLS was incorporated in September 2012 and commenced its operations on October 16, 2012 following Hanwha Solar’s acquisition of Q CELLS’ business in October 2012 from Q Cells SE, which was in bankruptcy proceedings in Germany. As Q CELLS has a relatively short history out of the bankruptcy proceedings, Q CELLS may become subject to litigation, arbitration or other disputes or disagreements with parties directly or indirectly related to the bankruptcy proceedings. In case such litigation, arbitration or other disputes or disagreements occur, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected due to its incurrence of financial, managerial or other costs and distractions arising therefrom. 34 Table of Contents For example, in July 2013, Q CELLS filed an arbitration claim in Frankfurt, Germany, against the insolvency administrator of Global PVQ SE (formerly Q Cells SE) regarding the dispute over the adjustment to the purchase price for certain assets of Q Cells SE acquired by Q CELLS, and certain liabilities related thereto assumed by Q CELLS, pursuant to the asset purchase agreement by and among the insolvency administrator, Hanwha Solar Germany GmbH (predecessor of Q CELLS) and Hanwha Chemical dated August 26, 2012. The insolvency administrator claims that it is entitled to receive in aggregate approximately US$93.1 million as the purchase price adjustment and the payments for related claims and other adjustments (excluding interest and legal fees), while Q CELLS claims that it is only obligated to pay in aggregate approximately US$19.2 million as the purchase price adjustment and the payments for related claims and other adjustments (excluding interest and legal fees). The arbitration is currently pending at the arbitral tribunal. See “Our Business—Legal and Administrative Proceedings.” There may be other claims against Q CELLS (and, thereby, against us) by various parties directly or indirectly related to the bankruptcy arising from matters related to contracts, labor, tax, environment or insurance, among others. We may not be able to foresee or defend ourselves against any or all of such claims without incurring substantial financial or other costs and, therefore, in case such claims materialize, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Q CELLS’ relocation of its manufacturing facilities and restructuring of its workforce in Germany may not achieve intended benefits and the related restructuring cost could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In March 2015, as part of our strategy to reduce manufacturing cost, Q CELLS has ceased the commercial production of PV cells and modules at its manufacturing facilities in Thalheim, Germany, which had annual production capacities of 230 MW of PV cells and 130 MW of PV modules as of December 31, 2014. We plan to relocate 170 MW of PV cell production facilities from Germany to Malaysia by the third quarter of 2015, while 60 MW of PV cell production facilities will remain in Germany for research and development purposes. PV module production facilities will be relocated to our other facilities that have not yet been determined. The transfer of production from one facility to another is costly and presents the possibility of additional disruptions and delays during the transition period, and we may not be able to successfully transition production to different facilities. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of any of our manufacturing facilities or any unforeseen delay in shifting manufacturing operations to new facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties or delays in regulatory approvals, could result in delays in shipments of products to our customers, increased costs and reduced revenues. In addition, there can be no assurances that the relocation of manufacturing facilities will generate the level of cost savings that Q CELLS has estimated going forward. In connection with the relocation of its manufacturing facilities, Q CELLS is undergoing a restructuring of its workforce in Germany. The production transfer to other sites and the corresponding restructuring is estimated to lead to a reduction of the workforce in Germany by approximately 550 positions. Approximately 350 jobs will be maintained by Q CELLS in Germany. Since January 2015, Q CELLS has been negotiating with the works council representing the employees in Germany in order to reach an agreement on the terms and conditions of the restructuring program. In connection with the restructuring of its workforce, Q CELLS may be subject to disputes with its former employees and the related cost could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Evaluating our business and prospects may be difficult because of our recent acquisition of Q CELLS, and our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. Hanwha SolarOne began operations in August 2004 and shipped its first PV modules and its first PV cells in February 2005 and November 2005, respectively. In February 2015, we acquired Q CELLS, thereby expanding our business operations significantly. As a result, Hanwha SolarOne’s historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. We expect to incur 35 Table of Contents significant costs associated with the acquisition, the related restructuring of Q CELLS’ workforce and the integration of Hanwha SolarOne and Q CELLS, the exact magnitude of which is not yet known. Therefore, you should not rely on Hanwha SolarOne’s past results or our historic rate of growth as an indication of our future performance. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The market price of the ADSs may be volatile. The market price of the ADSs has exhibited, and may continue to exhibit, significant volatility. For the period from December 20, 2006 to April 15, 2015, the trading price of the ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market has ranged from a low of US$0.77 per ADS to a high of US$40.19 per ADS. For the period from January 1, 2014 to April 15, 2015, the closing price of the ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market has ranged from a low of US$0.92 per ADS to a high of US$4.24 per ADS. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of the ADSs, including, among other things: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements regarding legal proceedings, including patent litigation, or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the conversion efficiencies of our products or those of our competitors; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates or other material comments by securities analysts relating to us, our competitors or our industry in general; • announcements by other companies in our industry relating to their operations, strategic initiatives, financial condition or financial performance or to our industry in general; • announcements of acquisitions or consolidations involving industry competitors or industry suppliers; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other PV technology companies; • changes in international trade policies and international barriers to trade; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of the ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. Future issuances of ordinary shares, ADSs or equity-related securities may depress the trading price of the ADSs. Any issuance of equity securities could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of the ADSs. We may issue equity securities through public offerings or private placements in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business 36 Table of Contents strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity and to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. Sales of a substantial number of ADSs or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of the ADSs, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of the ADSs or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of the ADSs. In addition, the price of the ADSs could be affected by possible sales of the ADSs by investors who view the convertible notes as a more attractive means of obtaining equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our convertible notes. Our memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association contain provisions which may limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to allot, issue, grant options, rights or warrants over or otherwise dispose of shares of our company with or without preferred, deferred, qualified or other special rights or restrictions, whether with regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise and to such persons, at such times and on such other terms as they think proper, and this would allow our board of directors to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of the ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We may amend the deposit agreement without consent from holders of ADSs and, if such holders disagree with our amendments, their choices will be limited to selling the ADSs or withdrawing the underlying ordinary shares. We may agree with the depositary to amend the deposit agreement without consent from holders of ADSs. If an amendment increases fees to be charged to ADS holders or otherwise prejudices any substantial right of ADS holders, it will not become effective until 30 days after the depositary notifies ADS holders of the amendment. At the time an amendment becomes effective, ADS holders are considered, by continuing to hold their ADSs, to have agreed to the amendment and to be bound by the amended deposit agreement. If holders of ADSs do not agree with an amendment to the deposit agreement, their choices will be limited to selling the ADSs or withdrawing the underlying ordinary shares. No assurance can be given that a sale of ADSs could be made at a price satisfactory to the holder in such circumstances. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights as our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene an annual general meeting or any extraordinary general meeting calling for the passing of a special 37 Table of Contents resolution is 20 days and the minimum notice period required to convene any other extraordinary general meeting is 14 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of the general meeting to permit you to withdraw the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to cast your vote with respect to such shares in respect of any specific matter. If requested in writing by us, the depositary will mail a notice of such a meeting to you. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but you may not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote the shares underlying your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, in the event we conduct any rights offering in the future, the depositary may not make such rights available to you or may dispose of such rights and make the net proceeds available to you. As a result, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary for the ADS facility has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. As a result, the depositary may decide not to make the distribution and you will not receive such distribution. We may be able to change the ratio of ADS to ordinary shares, which may affect the trading price of ADSs. On April 6, 2015, we held an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders in which our shareholders approved an amendment to our memorandum and articles of association to delete the fixed ratio of five ordinary shares represented by one ADS. As a result of such amendment, we are able to change the ratio of ADS to ordinary shares by a resolution of our board of directors, which may have an impact on the trading price of the ADSs. 38 Table of Contents We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, ADS holders may have less protection for their shareholder rights than such holders would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association as may be amended from time to time, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of our assets and a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. There are uncertainties as to whether Cayman Islands courts would: • recognize or enforce against us or our directors, judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • entertain original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders and ADS holders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken against management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders or ADS holders of a U.S. public company. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we will, rely on exemptions from certain Nasdaq corporate governance standards applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. This may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares and the ADSs. We are exempted from certain corporate governance requirements of Nasdaq by virtue of being a foreign private issuer. We are required to provide a brief description of the significant differences between our corporate governance practices and the corporate governance practices required to be followed by domestic U.S. companies listed on Nasdaq. The standards applicable to us are considerably different from the standards applied to domestic U.S. issuers. For instance, we are not required to: • have a majority of the board be independent (although all of the members of the audit committee must be independent under the Exchange Act); • have a compensation committee or a nominations committee consisting entirely of independent directors; • have director nominees be selected, or recommended for the board’s selection, either by independent directors or a nominations committee consisting entirely of independent directors; 39 Table of Contents • obtain shareholder approval prior to the issuance of securities when the issuance will result in a change of control of us; or • obtain shareholder approval prior to the issuance of securities involving the sale or issuance of 20% or more of our ordinary shares for less than the greater of book or market value of the shares. We intend to rely on these exemptions. See “Item 16.G. Corporate Governance”. As a result, you may not be provided with the benefits of certain corporate governance requirements of Nasdaq. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. We do not currently expect to be a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year or the foreseeable future. Our actual PFIC status for the current taxable year, however, will not be determinable until the close of the current taxable year ending December 31, 2015, and accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation, such as our company, is considered to be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income; or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Because PFIC status depends on the composition of a company’s income and assets, and the market value of its assets and of its shares from time to time, and the application of rules that are not always clear, there can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined below under “Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation”) holds the ADSs or ordinary shares, such U.S. Holder will generally be subject to materially adverse tax consequences including being subject to greater amounts of tax on gains and certain distributions as well as increased tax reporting obligations. U.S. Holders should consult their own tax advisors about the circumstances that may cause us to be classified as a PFIC and the consequences if we are classified as a PFIC. For more information, see “Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Status.” We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our ordinary shares and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of the ADSs. We do not currently intend to pay any cash dividends on our ordinary shares for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all of our available funds and any future earnings to operate and expand our business. The payment of any future dividends will be determined by our board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including our operations and earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant. 