Item 1A. Risk Factors Our level of production and our sales and earnings are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of the cyclical nature of the steel industry and the industries we serve. The price of steel and steel products may fluctuate significantly due to many factors beyond our control. This fluctuation directly affects the levels of our production and our sales and earnings. The steel industry is highly cyclical, influenced by a combination of factors, including periods of economic growth or recession, strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar, worldwide production capacity, levels of steel imports and applicable tariffs, as well as general economic conditions and the condition of certain other industries. The demand for steel products is generally affected by macroeconomic fluctuations in the United States and global economies in which steel companies sell their products. Future economic downturns, stagnant economies or currency fluctuations in the United States or globally could decrease the demand for our products or increase the amount of imports of steel into the United States, either of which would decrease our sales, margins and profitability. In addition, a disruption or downturn in the construction, oil and gas, durable goods, agricultural, commercial equipment, shipbuilding, bridge fabrication or rail transportation industries could negatively impact our financial condition, production, sales, margins and earnings. We are also particularly sensitive to trends and events, including strikes and labor unrest, that may impact these industries. These industries are significant markets for our products and are themselves highly cyclical. Any decrease in the availability, or increase in the cost, of scrap, other raw materials and energy could materially reduce our earnings. Our operation depends heavily on the availability of various raw materials and energy resources, including scrap metal, natural gas, electricity, and alloys. The availability of raw materials and energy resources may decrease, and their prices are likely to be volatile as a result of, among other things, changes in overall supply and demand levels and new laws or regulations. Disruption in the supply of our raw materials or energy resources could temporarily impair our ability to manufacture some of our products or require us to pay higher prices in order to obtain these raw materials or energy resources from other sources. If our raw material or energy costs increase, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers in full or at all. Any increase in the prices for raw materials or energy resources could materially increase our costs and lower our earnings. Our principal raw material is scrap metal derived primarily from junked automobiles, industrial scrap, railroad cars, railroad track materials and demolition scrap from obsolete structures, containers and machines. The prices for scrap are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including demand by U.S. and international steel producers, freight costs and speculation. The prices for scrap have varied significantly, may vary significantly in the future and do not necessarily fluctuate in tandem with the price of steel. Since the latter part of 2003 through the present, the price of scrap has risen sharply, largely as a result of foreign scrap demand (particularly from China). If we are unable to pass on the cost of higher scrap prices to our customers we will be less profitable. We may not be able to adjust our product prices, especially in the short term, to recover the costs of increases in scrap prices. Moreover, integrated steel producers are not as dependent as we are on scrap as a part of their raw material melt mix, which, during periods of high scrap costs relative to the cost of blast furnace iron used by the integrated producers, gives them a raw material cost advantage over mini-mills. Natural gas and electric power are the primary energy resources used at our facility. Prices for natural gas and electricity have fluctuated in recent years. We do not have a long-term supply contract for electricity. Although we continue to evaluate our energy costs and consider ways to factor energy costs into our pricing, energy prices may increase further, which could adversely affect our production costs, competitive position and results of operations. A substantial and prolonged increase in energy costs could have an adverse effect on our margins, earnings and cash flow. 11 A decrease in the global demand for steel, particularly from China, could have a material adverse effect on global steel pricing and could result in increased steel exports into the United States, which may negatively impact our sales, margins and profitability. A significant factor in the worldwide strengthening of steel pricing over the past several years has been the explosive growth in Chinese steel consumption, which has vastly outpaced that country’s manufacturing capacity to produce its own steel needs. A combination of a slowdown in China’s economic growth rate and its consumption of steel, coupled with its own expansion of steelmaking capacity, could result in a substantial weakening of both domestic and global steel demand and steel pricing. Should Chinese demand weaken, China might not only become a net exporter of steel but many Asian and European steel producers whose steel output currently feeds China’s steel import needs could find their way into the domestic market, through increased steel imports, thus causing an erosion of margins and a reduction in pricing. In the recent past, imports of steel into the United States have adversely affected, and may again adversely affect, U.S. steel prices, which would impact our sales, margins and profitability. Excessive imports of steel into the United States have in recent years exerted, and may again in the future, exert downward pressure on U.S. steel prices and significantly reduce our sales, margins and profitability. According to the American Iron and Steel Institute, imports of steel mill products into the United States constituted 34%, 25.4%, and 25.6% of the domestic steel market supply for 2006, 2005, and 2004 respectively. U.S. steel producers compete with many foreign producers. Competition from foreign producers is typically strong and periodically exacerbated by weakening of the economies of certain foreign steelmaking countries, while also being further intensified during periods when the U.S. dollar is strong relative to foreign currencies. Economic difficulties in these countries or a reduction in demand for steel produced by these countries tends to encourage greater steel exports to the United States at depressed prices. In addition, we believe the downward pressure on, and periodically depressed levels of, U.S. steel prices in some recent years has been further exacerbated by imports of steel involving dumping and subsidy abuses by foreign steel producers. Some foreign steel producers are owned, controlled or subsidized by foreign governments. As a result, decisions by these producers with respect to their production, sales and pricing are often influenced to a greater degree by political and economic policy considerations than by prevailing market conditions, realities of the marketplace or consideration of profit or loss. For example, between 1998 and 2001, when imports of hot-rolled and cold-rolled products increased dramatically, domestic steel producers were adversely affected by unfairly priced or “dumped” imported steel. Even though various protective actions taken by the U.S. government during 2001, including the enactment of various steel import quotas and tariffs, resulted in an abatement of some steel imports during 2002 and 2003, these protective measures were only temporary. Many foreign steel manufacturers were granted exemptions from the application of these measures and President Bush, in December 2003, rescinded a substantial part of these protective measures, the so-called Section 201 tariffs, as a result of a November 10, 2003 World Trade Organization ruling declaring that the tariffs on hot-rolled and cold-rolled finished steel imports violated global trade rules, and as a result of economic and political pressures from foreign governments, including threats of retaliatory tariffs on U.S. exports. Moreover, there are products and countries that were not covered by these protective measures, and imports of these exempt products or of products from these countries may have an additional adverse effect upon our revenues and income. In any event, when any of these remaining measures expire or if they are further relaxed or repealed, or if increasingly higher U.S. steel prices enable foreign steelmakers to export their steel products into the United States, even with the presence of duties or tariffs, the resurgence of substantial imports of foreign steel could again create downward pressure on U.S. steel prices. Excess global capacity and the availability of competitive substitute materials have, at times, resulted in intense competition and may, in the future, cause downward pressure on prices. Competition within the steel industry, both domestic and worldwide, is intense and is expected to remain so. We compete primarily on the basis of price, quality and the ability to meet customers’ product needs and delivery 12 schedules. The highly competitive nature of the steel industry periodically exerts downward pressure on prices for our products. In the case of certain product applications, we and other steel manufacturers compete with manufacturers of other materials, including plastic, aluminum, graphite composites, ceramics, glass, wood and concrete. The global steel industry is generally characterized by overcapacity, which can have a negative impact on domestic steel prices. This overcapacity has sometimes resulted in high levels of steel imports into the United States exerting downward pressure on domestic steel prices and resulting in, at times, a dramatic reduction in, or in the case of many steel producers, the elimination of, gross margins. Fluctuations in the relative value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may negatively impact our sales, margins and profitability. The value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies has been generally in decline since 2001. This weakness in the U.S. dollar has contributed to a decrease in foreign steel imports, which has decreased competition for U.S. steel manufacturers and helped to sustain or increase domestic steel prices. If the value of the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, steel imports to the United States may increase and put downward pressure on steel prices, which may adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability. Environmental regulation imposes substantial costs and limitations on our operations. The risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to compliance with environmental laws and regulations are an inherent part of our business. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we expended $307,000, in environmental compliance. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning such issues as air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste handling and disposal, and the investigation and remediation of contamination. These laws and regulations are increasingly stringent. It is possible that future conditions may create substantial environmental compliance or remediation liabilities and the cost of compliance and remediation could be substantial. For example, our steelmaking operations produce certain waste products, such as electric arc furnace dust, which are classified as hazardous waste and must be properly disposed of under applicable environmental laws. These laws can impose clean-up liability on generators of hazardous waste and other substances that are disposed of either on or off-site, regardless of fault or the legality of the disposal activities. In addition, in October 2006, the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control issued a Notice of Conciliation and Secretary’s Order requiring Claymont Steel to fund an independent study to determine engineering and operational options to control dust and other particulate emissions and in November 2006 issued a separate Secretary’s Order that requires Claymont Steel to monitor and reduce mercury emissions. In January 2007, Claymont Steel responded to the November 2006 Order. The corrective measures and the outcome of each of these matters cannot be determined at this time, nor can we estimate the cost of any corrective measures or the possibility or amount of any penalty that may be imposed. Moreover, although we are currently able to purchase automobile-free scrap, which results in lower mercury emissions, on the same terms as scrap that includes automobiles, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the future. Further, other laws may require us to investigate and remediate contamination at our properties, including contamination that was caused in whole or in part by previous owners of our properties. While we believe that we can comply with environmental legislation and regulatory requirements and that the costs of doing so have been included within our budgeted cost estimates, it is possible that such compliance will prove to be more limiting to our operations and more costly than anticipated. In addition to potential clean-up liability, we may become subject to substantial monetary fines and penalties for violation of applicable laws, regulations or administrative orders. Unionization of our workforce, related work stoppages, or unexpected equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. If our workforce were to elect to be represented by a union we could experience reduced flexibility in managing our labor resources. Work stoppages or other slowdowns, whether as a result of unionization or other factors, could significantly disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results and financial condition. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of 13 steelmaking equipment, which may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures. We have experienced and may in the future experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures. Interruptions in our production capabilities will inevitably increase our production costs, and reduce our sales and earnings for the affected period. In addition to equipment failures, our facility is subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. Moreover, any interruption in production capability may require us to make significant capital expenditures to remedy the problem, which could have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. We may also sustain revenue losses in excess of any recoveries we make under any applicable business interruption insurance coverages we may have. In addition to such revenue losses, longer-term business disruption could result in a loss of customers, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our senior management’s experience and knowledge of our industry, and the loss of any key members of our senior management team could disrupt our operations and harm our business. Our success depends, in part, on the efforts of certain key individuals, including the members of our senior management team, who have significant experience in the steel industry. If, for any reason, our senior executives do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to attract and retain additional qualified senior personnel with significant steel industry experience as needed in the future. Failure to continue to attract these individuals at reasonable compensation levels could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. Although we do not anticipate that we will have to replace any of these individuals in the near future, the loss of the services of any of our key employees could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. We are a holding company and rely on dividends and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Holdings has no direct operations and no significant assets other than ownership of 100% of the stock of Claymont Steel, and the indirect ownership of 100% of the stock of CitiSteel PA, Inc. Because we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, or to pay any dividends with respect to our common stock. Legal and contractual restrictions in Claymont Steel’s senior revolving credit agreement and the indenture governing Claymont Steel’s senior notes, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. The earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable us to repay our indebtedness or to pay any dividends on our common stock. We have substantial indebtedness, and we have negative stockholders’ equity, which could adversely affect our financial condition and otherwise adversely impact our business and growth prospects. We have a substantial amount of debt and we have negative stockholders’ equity. As of December 31, 2006, we have total indebtedness of approximately $243.8 million and stockholders’ deficit of $40.3 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you, including the following: • we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our other indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for other purposes; • our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be limited; • our flexibility in reacting to changes in the industry may be limited and we could be more vulnerable to adverse changes in our business or economic conditions in general; and • we may be at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors who operate on a less leveraged basis. 14 Furthermore, any borrowings under the Claymont Steel credit agreement bears interest at variable rates. There were no borrowings outstanding under this agreement on December 31, 2006. There was $63.7 million outstanding under our credit agreement on February 15, 2007. If these rates were to increase significantly, our ability to borrow additional funds may be reduced, our interest expense would significantly increase, and the risks related to our substantial indebtedness would intensify. Our ability to generate cash flows from operations and to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness will depend on our future financial performance. Our future performance will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, legislative, operating and other business factors, many of which we cannot control, such as general economic and financial conditions in our industry or the economy at large. A significant reduction in operating cash flows resulting from changes in economic conditions, increased competition, or other events could increase the need for additional or alternative sources of liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and our ability to service our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness or seeking equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these alternative strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that they would yield sufficient funds to make required payments on the notes and our other indebtedness. The agreements governing our and our subsidiaries’ indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business. The agreements governing our and our subsidiaries’ indebtedness contain covenants that restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to take various actions, such as: • incurring or generating additional indebtedness or issuing certain preferred stock; • making certain investments or acquisitions; • paying dividends on our capital stock or redeeming, repurchasing or retiring our capital stock or subordinated indebtedness or making other restricted payments; • selling or issuing capital stock of our current subsidiary and our future restricted subsidiaries; • entering into certain transactions with affiliates; • creating or incurring liens on our assets; • transferring or selling assets; • incurring dividend or other payment restrictions affecting certain of our existing and future subsidiaries; and • consummating a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. These covenants limit our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure, and the failure of our subsidiaries, to comply with these covenants would result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness, and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, and, because we are a holding company, we may be unable to pay dividends. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon then-existing 15 conditions, including our financial condition and results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, business prospects and other factors that the board of directors considers relevant. Furthermore, because we are a holding company, we depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries, and the indenture governing the Claymont Steel senior notes and the Claymont Steel credit agreement impose restrictions on Claymont Steel’s ability to distribute cash to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 