Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer, possibly materially. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have limited operating experience and a history of operating losses, and we may be subject to risks inherent in early stage companies, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and prospects. We have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. We began assisting in energy transactions in 2001 and introduced our current auction model in April of that same year. Further, we have a history of losses and, at December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $4.2 million. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be profitable in any given period or at all. You must consider our business, financial history and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we face as an early stage company with a limited operating history. In particular, our management may have less experience in implementing our business plan and strategy compared to our competitors, including our strategy to increase our market share and build our brand name. In addition, we may face challenges in planning and forecasting accurately as a result of our limited historical data and inexperience in implementing and evaluating our business strategies. Our inability to successfully address these risks, difficulties and challenges as a result of our inexperience and limited operating history may have a negative impact on our ability to implement our strategic initiatives, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is heavily influenced by how much regulated utility prices for energy are above or below competitive market prices for energy and, accordingly, any changes in regulated prices or cyclicality or volatility in competitive market prices heavily impacts our business. When energy prices increase in competitive markets above the price levels of the regulated utilities, energy consumers are less likely to lock-in to higher fixed price contracts in the competitive markets and so they are less likely to use our auction platform. Accordingly, reductions in regulated energy prices can severely negatively impact our business. Any such reductions in regulated energy prices over a large geographic area or over a long period of time would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, cyclicality or volatility in competitive market prices that have the effect of driving those prices above the regulated utility prices will make our auction platform less useful to energy consumers and will negatively impact our business. The online brokerage of electricity and other energy-related products is a relatively new and emerging market and it is uncertain whether our auction model will gain widespread acceptance. The emergence of competition in the electricity market and other energy-related products is a relatively recent development, and industry participants have not yet achieved consensus on how to most efficiently take advantage of the competitive environment. We believe that as the online energy brokerage industry matures, it is likely to become dominated by a relatively small number of competitors that can offer access to the largest number of competitive suppliers and consumers. Brokerage exchanges with the highest levels of transaction volume will likely be able to offer energy suppliers lower transaction costs and offer consumers better prices, which we believe will increasingly create competitive barriers for smaller online brokerage exchanges. For us to capitalize on our position as an early entrant into this line of business, we will need to generate widespread support for our auction platform and continue to rapidly expand the scale of our operations. Other online auction or non-auction strategies may prove to be more attractive to the industry than our auction model. If an alternative brokerage exchange model becomes widely accepted in the electricity industry and/or the other energy-related industries we participate in, our business will fail. We depend on a small number of key energy consumers for a significant portion of our revenue, many of which are government entities that have no obligation to use our auction platform or continue their relationship with us, and the partial or complete loss of business of one or more of these consumers could negatively affect our business. We have an energy consumer base comprised primarily of large businesses and government organizations. Four of these energy consumers each accounted for over 10% individually and approximately 63% in the aggregate of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006, and three of these energy consumers accounted for over 10% individually and approximately 51% in the aggregate of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our government contracts are typically for multiple years but are subject to government funding contingencies and cancellation for convenience clauses. Although our non-government contracts create a short-term exclusive relationship with the energy consumer, typically this exclusivity relates only to the specific auction event and expires during the term of the energy contract. Accordingly, we do not have ongoing commitments from these energy consumers to purchase any of their incremental energy requirements utilizing our auction platform, and they are not prohibited from using competing brokerage services. The loss of any of these key energy consumers will negatively impact our 11 revenue, particularly in the absence of our ability to attract additional energy consumers to use our service. We do not have contracts for fixed volumes with the energy suppliers who use our auction platform and we depend on a small number of key energy suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one or more of these energy suppliers as a participant on our auction platform could undermine our ability to execute effective auctions. We do not have contracts for fixed volumes with any of the energy suppliers who use our auction platform. Four energy suppliers each accounted for over 10% individually and approximately 51% in the aggregate of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006, and four of these energy suppliers each accounted for over 10% individually and approximately 57% in the aggregate of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005. The loss of any of these, or other significant, suppliers will negatively impact our operations, particularly in the absence of our ability to locate additional national suppliers. We do not have agreements with any of these suppliers preventing them from directly competing with us or utilizing competing services. We depend on our channel partners to establish and develop certain of our relationships with energy consumers and the loss of certain channel partners could result in the loss of certain key energy consumers. We rely on our channel partners to establish certain of our relationships with energy consumers. Our ability to maintain our relationships with our channel partners will impact our operations and revenue. We depend on the financial viability of our channel partners and their success in procuring energy consumers on our behalf. One of our channel partners was involved with identifying and qualifying energy consumers which entered into contracts that accounted for approximately 63% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006, and two of our channel partners were involved with identifying and qualifying energy consumers which entered into contracts that accounted for over 10% individually and approximately 80% in the aggregate of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005. Channel partners may be involved in various aspects of a deal including but not limited to lead identification, the selling process, project management, data gathering, contract negotiation, deal closing and post-auction account management. To the extent that a channel partner ceases to do business with us, or goes bankrupt, dissolves, or otherwise ceases to carry on business, we may lose access to that channel partner’s existing client base, in which case the volume of energy traded through the World Energy Exchange will be adversely affected and our revenue will decline. If we are unable to rapidly implement some or all of our major strategic initiatives, our ability to improve our competitive position may be negatively impacted. Our strategy is to improve our competitive position by implementing certain key strategic initiatives in advance of competitors, including the following: • continuing to develop channel partner relationships; • strengthen and expand long-term relationships with government agencies; • target other energy-related markets; • target utilities in order to broker energy-related products for them; and • develop a green credits auction platform. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing any of these key strategic initiatives, or that our time to market will be sooner than that of competitors. Some of these initiatives relate to new services or products for which there are no established markets, or in which we lack experience and expertise. In addition, the execution of our growth strategies will require significant increases in working capital expenses and increases in capital expenditures and management resources and may subject us to additional regulatory oversight. If we are unable to rapidly implement some or all of our key strategic initiatives in an effective and timely manner, our ability to improve our competitive position may be negatively impacted, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business and prospects. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from the brokerage of electricity, and as a result our business is highly susceptible to factors affecting the electricity market over which we have no control. We derived approximately 93% of revenue during 2006 and 91% of revenue during 2005 from the brokerage of electricity. Although we expect that our reliance on the brokerage of electricity will diminish as we implement our strategy to expand brokerage into other markets, we believe that our revenue will continue to be highly dependent on the level of activity in the electricity market for the near future. Transaction volume in the electricity market is subject to a number of variables, such as consumption levels, pricing trends, availability of supply and other variables. We have no control over these variables, which are affected by geopolitical events such as war, threat of war, terrorism, civil unrest, political instability, environmental or climatic factors and general economic conditions. We are particularly vulnerable during periods when energy consumers perceive that 12 electricity prices are at elevated levels since transaction volume is typically lower when prices are high relative to regulated utility prices. Accordingly, if electricity transaction volume declines sharply, our results will suffer. Our success depends on the widespread adoption of purchasing electricity from competitive sources. Our success will depend, in large part, on the willingness of commercial, industrial and governmental, or CIG, energy consumers to embrace competitive sources of supply, and on the ability of our energy suppliers to consistently source electricity at competitive rates. In most regions of North America, energy consumers have either no or relatively little experience purchasing electricity in a competitive environment. Although electricity consumers in deregulated regions have been switching from incumbent utilities to competitive sources, there can be no assurance that the trend will continue. In a majority of states and municipalities, including some areas which are technically “deregulated”, electricity is still provided by the incumbent local utility at subsidized rates or at rates that are too low to stimulate meaningful competition by other providers. In addition, extreme price volatility could delay or impede the widespread adoption of competitive markets. To the extent that competitive markets do not continue to develop rapidly our prospects for growth will be constrained. Also, there can be no assurance that trends in government deregulation of energy will continue or will not be reversed. Increased regulation of energy would significantly damage our business. Even if our auction brokerage model achieves widespread acceptance as the preferred means to transact electricity and other energy-related products, we may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors. We expect that competition for online brokerage of electricity and other energy-related products will intensify in the near future in response to expanding restructured energy markets that permit consumer choice of energy sources and as technological advances create incentives to develop more efficient and less costly energy procurement in regional and global markets. The barriers to entry into the online brokerage marketplace are relatively low, and we expect to face increased competition from traditional off-line energy brokers, other established participants in the energy industry and online services companies that can launch online auction services that are similar to ours. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, better brand recognition and significantly greater financial resources than we do. The management of some of these competitors may have more experience in implementing their business plan and strategy and they may have pre-existing commercial or other relationships with large energy consumers and or suppliers which would give them a competitive advantage. We expect that as competition in the online marketplace increases, brokerage commissions for the energy industry will decline, which could have a negative impact on the level of brokerage fees we can charge per transaction and may reduce the relative attractiveness of our exchange services. We expect that our costs relating to marketing and human resources may increase as our competitors undertake marketing campaigns to enhance their brand names and to increase the volume of business conducted through their exchanges. We also expect many of our competitors to expend financial and other resources to improve their network and system infrastructure to compete more aggressively. Our inability to adequately address these and other competitive pressures would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our costs will increase significantly as we expand our business and in the event that our revenue does not increase proportionately, we will generate significant operating losses in the future. We expect to significantly increase our operating expenses as we continue to expand our brokerage capabilities to offer additional energy-related products, increase our sales and marketing efforts, and develop our administrative organization. We also are incurring increased costs as a result of being a publicly held company with shares listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange. As we seek to expand our business rapidly, we may incur significant operating losses. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 we incurred a net loss of approximately $501,000, which was a direct result of these increased costs. In addition, our budgeted expense levels are based, in significant part, on our expectations as to future revenue and are largely fixed in the short term. As a result, we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue which could compound those losses in any given fiscal period. We depend on the services of our senior executives and other key personnel, the loss of whom could negatively affect our business. Our future performance will depend substantially on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel, including our vice president of sales, vice president of business development, vice president of channel sales, chief information officer, vice president of operations and account management, and our market directors. If any one or more of such persons leave their positions and we are unable to find suitable replacement personnel in a timely and cost efficient manner, our business may be disrupted and we may not be able to achieve our business objectives, including our ability to manage our growth and successfully implement our strategic initiatives. We do not have long-term employment agreements with our senior management or other key personnel and we do not have a non-competition agreement with our current chief executive officer. We must also continue to seek ways to retain and motivate all of our employees through various means, including through enhanced compensation packages. In addition, we will need to hire more employees as we continue to implement our key strategy 13 of building on our market position and expanding our business. Competition for qualified personnel in the areas in which we compete remains intense and the pool of qualified candidates is limited. Our inability to attract, hire and retain qualified staff on a cost efficient basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and ability to successfully implement our growth strategies. We depend on third-party service and technology providers and any loss or break-down in those relationships could damage our operations significantly if we are unable to find alternative providers. We depend on a number of third party providers for web hosting, elements of our online auction system, data management and other systems, as well as communications and networking equipment, computer hardware and software and related support and maintenance. There can be no assurance that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services without interruption and in an efficient, cost-effective manner or that they will be able to adequately meet our needs as our transaction volume increases. An interruption in or the cessation of such third-party services and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. There is also no assurance that any agreements that we have in place with such third-party providers will be renewed, or if renewed, renewed on favorable terms. Our business depends heavily on information technology systems the interruption or unavailability of which could materially damage our operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our exchange, processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain energy consumers and energy suppliers to the World Energy Exchange. Our efforts to mitigate systems risks may not be adequate and the risk of a system failure or interruption cannot be eliminated. Although we have never experienced an unscheduled interruption of service, any such interruption in our services may result in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenue and damage to our reputation. Our business also depends upon the use of the Internet as a transactions medium. Therefore, we must remain current with Internet use and technology developments. Our current technological architecture may not effectively or efficiently support our changing business requirements. Any substantial increase in service activities or transaction volume on the World Energy Exchange and the development of the World Green Exchange may require us to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully do so, and any failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Breaches of online security could damage or disrupt our reputation and our ability to do business. To succeed, online communications must provide a secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Security measures that are implemented may not always prevent security breaches that could harm our business. Although to our knowledge we have never experienced a breach of online security, compromise of our security could harm our reputation, cause users to lose confidence in our security systems and to not source their electricity using our auction platform and also subject us to lawsuits, sanctions, fines and other penalties. In addition, a party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult and costly as our business expands. To the extent that we expand our operations into foreign markets, additional costs and risks associated with doing business internationally will apply. It is possible that we will have international operations in the near future. These operations may include the brokering of green credits in countries signatory to the Kyoto Protocol, the outsourcing of data and programming to lower cost locations, and the brokering of energy in other geographic markets where we believe the demand for our services may be strong. To the extent we enter geographic markets outside of the United States, our international operations will be subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: • different regulatory requirements governing the energy marketplace; • difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing international operations; • regulatory regimes governing the Internet and auctioneering that may limit or prevent our operations in some jurisdictions; 14 • different and more stringent data privacy laws; • differing intellectual property laws; • differing contract laws that prevent the enforceability of agreements between energy suppliers and energy consumers; • the imposition of special taxes, including local taxation of our fees or of transactions through our exchange; • strong local competitors; • currency fluctuations; and • political and economic instability. Our failure to manage the risks associated with international operations could limit the future growth of our business and adversely affect our operating results. We may be required to make a substantial financial investment and expend significant management efforts in connection with any international expansion. The application of taxes including sales taxes and other taxes could negatively affect our business. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value added tax, goods and services tax, business tax, and gross receipt tax) to e-commerce businesses and our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the growth of the Internet and e-commerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or e-commerce. In addition, some jurisdictions have implemented or may implement laws specifically addressing the Internet or some aspect of e-commerce. The application of existing or future laws could have adverse effects on our business. Several proposals have been made at the United States state and local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services through the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of e-commerce, and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities. The United States federal government’s moratorium on states and other local authorities imposing access or discriminatory taxes on the Internet is scheduled to expire in November 2007. This moratorium does not prohibit federal, state, or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting taxes that are due under existing tax rules. In conjunction with the Streamlined Sales Tax Project — an ongoing, multi-year effort by certain state and local governments to require collection and remittance of distant sales tax by out-of-state sellers — bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress to overturn the Supreme Court’s Quill decision, which limits the ability of state governments to require sellers outside of their own state to collect and remit sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. An overturning of the Quill decision would harm our users and our business. The passage of new legislation and the imposition of additional tax requirements could increase the costs to energy suppliers and energy consumers using our auction platform and, accordingly, could harm our business. There have been, and will continue to be, ongoing costs associated with complying with the various indirect tax requirements in the numerous states, localities or countries in which we currently conduct or will conduct business. U.S. federal or state legislative or regulatory reform of the current systems governing commodities or energy may affect our ability to conduct our business profitably. We are currently not regulated as an energy provider, broker or commodities dealer. Changes to the laws or regulations governing activities related to commodities trading or energy procurement, supply, distribution or sale, or transacting in energy-related products or securities could adversely affect the profitability of our brokerage operations or even our ability to conduct auctions. In addition, our future lines of business under consideration, including transacting in green credits, could subject us to additional regulation. Changes to the current regulatory framework could result in additional costs and expenses or prohibit certain of our current business activities or future business plans. We cannot predict the form any such legislation or rule making may take, the probability of passage, and the ultimate effect on us. We may expand our business through acquisition of other businesses and technologies which will present special risks. We may expand our business in certain areas through the acquisition of businesses, technologies, products and services from other businesses. Acquisitions involve a number of special problems, including: • the need to incur additional indebtedness, issue stock or use cash in order to complete the acquisition; • difficulty integrating acquired technologies, operations and personnel with the existing business; • diversion of management attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the assets; 15 • strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations; • the funding requirements for acquired companies may be significant; • exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; • increased risk of costly and time-consuming litigation, including stockholder lawsuits; and • potential issuance of securities in connection with an acquisition with rights that are superior to the rights of our common stockholders, or which may have a dilutive effect on our common stockholders. We may not be able to successfully address these problems. Our future operating results will depend to a significant degree on our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and manage operations while also controlling expenses and cash burn. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm us and affect our ability to compete effectively. We have developed proprietary software, logos, brands, service names and web sites, including our proprietary auction platform. Although we have taken certain limited steps to protect our proprietary intellectual property (including consulting with outside patent and trademark counsel regarding protection of our intellectual property and implementing a program to protect our trade secrets), we have not applied for any patents with respect to our auction platform and we have not registered any trademarks. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information or deter independent development of similar technologies by others. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or trade secrets by consultants, vendors, former employees and current employees, despite the existence of confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. If our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, we may not be able to commercialize our services. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take adequate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. In addition, certain of our trade names may not be eligible for protection if, for example, they are generic or in use by another party. Accordingly, we may be unable to prevent competitors from using trade names that are confusingly similar or identical to ours. Our auction platform, services, technologies or usage of trade names could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may lead to litigation that could itself be costly, could result in the payment of substantial damages or royalties, and/or prevent us from using technology that is essential to our business. Although no third party has threatened or alleged that our auction platform, services, technologies or usage of trade names infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, we cannot assure you that we do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against us, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm to our reputation. Defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. If our business is successful, the possibility may increase that others will assert infringement claims against us. We use intellectual property licensed from third parties in our operations. There is a risk that such licenses may be terminated, which could significantly disrupt our business. In such an event, we may be required to spend significant time and money to develop a non-infringing system or process or license intellectual property that does not infringe upon the rights of that other person or to obtain a license for the intellectual property from the owner. We may not be successful in that development or any such license may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, any litigation could be lengthy and costly and could adversely affect us even if we are successful in such litigation. Our corporate name and certain of our trade names may not be eligible for protection if, for example, they are generic or in use by another party. We may be unable to prevent competitors from using trade names or corporate names that are confusingly similar or identical to ours. A company organized under the laws of the State of Florida and whose shares are publicly traded under the symbol “WEGY” also operates under the name “World Energy Solutions, Inc.” According to its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, this other company changed its name to “World Energy Solutions” in November 2005, and is in the business of manufacturing and selling transient voltage surge suppressors and related products and commercial and residential energy-saving equipment and applications to distributors and customers throughout the United States. Such filings indicate that this other company plans to implement a new business model to market a multi-product package to commercial, industrial and residential facilities in order to lower their overall cost of electricity, gas and water. This appears to be a different business than ours. We cannot assure you that this other company will not seek to challenge our right to the use of our name, in which case we could be drawn into litigation and, if unsuccessful could be required, or could decide, to cease using the name World Energy Solutions, Inc., in which case we would not realize any value we had built in our name. Additionally, our reputation could be damaged if the other company continues its use of the name World Energy Solutions, Inc. and such other company develops a negative reputation. 16 Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock Because there is a limited trading history for our common stock and our stock price may be volatile, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. We cannot predict the extent to which investors’ interests will provide an active trading market for our common stock or whether the market price of our common stock will be volatile. The market for early stage Internet and technology stocks has been extremely volatile. The following factors, many of which are outside of our control, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly from recent prices: • loss of any of the major energy consumers or suppliers using our auction platform; • departure of key personnel; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, new transaction capabilities, enhancements, lower fees, acquisitions, distribution partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in governmental regulations and standards affecting the energy industry and our products, including implementation of additional regulations relating to consumer data privacy; • decreases in financial estimates by equity research analysts; • sales of common stock or other securities by us in the future; • decreases in market valuations of Internet or technology companies; and • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been initiated against a company following a period of volatility in the market price of the company’s securities. If class action litigation is initiated against us, we will incur substantial costs and our management’s attention will be diverted from our operations. All of these factors could cause the market price of our stock to decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment. Also due to the size of the market capitalization of our shares, and the fact that we are only publicly listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the market for our common stock may be volatile and may not afford a high level of liquidity. Future sales of our common stock by persons who were stockholders prior to our initial public offering could cause our stock price to decline. If persons who were stockholders prior to our initial public offering sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock. A substantial portion of our stockholders prior to our initial public offering are subject to lock-up agreements with the underwriters that restrict their ability to transfer their stock for at least 365 days after the date of the offering. Upon expiration of the lock-up agreements, an additional 43,368,733 shares of our common stock will be eligible for sale in the public market. In addition, we filed a registration statement with the SEC covering (a) substantially all of the shares of our common stock acquired upon option exercises prior to the closing of this offering, other than shares we believe are eligible for sale pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as of the time of filing, (b) all of the shares subject to options outstanding, but not exercised, as of the closing of this offering, and (c) all of the shares available for future issuance under our stock incentive plans upon the closing of this offering. The market price of shares of our common stock may drop significantly when the restrictions on resale by our existing stockholders lapse and our stockholders are able to sell shares of our common stock into the market. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, and may cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our shares of common stock. Massachusetts Capital Resource Company holds certain piggy-back and demand registration rights with respect to 600,000 shares. Certain underwriters for our initial public offering have piggy-back registration rights with respect to shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants issued in connection with our initial public offering. In the event that the holders of registration rights were to exercise such rights, upon registration of the shares of our common stock in connection with any such exercises, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the applicable public market could occur. Such sales, or the perception in such market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. 17 Our auditors identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 In a letter dated August 2, 2006, our external auditors, UHY LLP, advised us that they were concerned that as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005, we were operating without an experienced principal accounting/financial officer with sufficient knowledge of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, SEC financial reporting issues, internal controls, and other complex accounting and reporting issues, and that the lack of such an officer constituted a “material weakness” in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. A “material weakness” is a control deficiency or a combination of control deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in the financial statements or related disclosures will not be prevented or detected. In May 2006, we hired a full-time chief financial officer with the appropriate experience and background to manage the diverse and complex financial issues that may arise in our business. In addition, we have recently reorganized our accounting staff and have hired an additional professional to augment our staff. We believe that these staffing additions have mitigated these risks and that the material weakness identified as of December 31, 2005, no longer exists. As a public company we are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Compliance with Section 404 will result in the incurrence of significant costs, the commitment of time and operational resources and the diversion of management’s attention. If our management identifies material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on our management’s evaluation or on the effectiveness of our internal controls, our business may be harmed. Market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our stock may also be adversely affected and customer perception of our business may suffer. Our directors and executive officers have substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. Our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 35.8% of our outstanding common stock. In particular, Richard Domaleski, our president and chief executive officer, beneficially owns approximately 25.0% of our outstanding common stock. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities, if acting together, would be able to control or influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may have interests that differ from yours, and they may vote in a way with which you disagree and that may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company, and may affect the market price of our common stock. Our corporate documents and Delaware law make a takeover of our company more difficult, we have a classified board of directors and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws require a super-majority vote to amend, all of which may prevent certain changes in control and limit the market price of our common stock. Our charter and by-laws and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person became an interested stockholder, unless the interested stockholder attained such status with the approval of our Board or the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws establish a classified board of directors such that our directors serve staggered three-year terms and do not all stand for re-election every year. In addition, any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders at an annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders may only be taken if it is properly brought before the meeting and may not be taken by written action in lieu of a meeting, and special meetings of the stockholders may only be called by the chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or our Board. Further, our certificate of incorporation provides that directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote, and any vacancy on our Board, including a vacancy resulting from an enlargement of our Board, may only be filled by vote of a majority of our directors then in office. In addition, our by-laws establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to the Board. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including those setting forth the classified board, require a super-majority vote of stockholders to amend. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 18 We may choose not to continue to file periodic reports with the SEC if we are not required to do so, which would limit the information available about us in the United States, and because we are not listing on a United States exchange, we do not have the same disclosure and corporate governance obligations as a company that is so listed. Under United States securities laws, we are required to file informational reports about us with the SEC, including periodic reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. However, unless we list our shares on a market located in the United States, our obligation to file those reports will be suspended as to any year in the event that our shares are held by fewer than 300 stockholders of record as of the beginning of that year. In such an event, we may choose not to file those reports and the information you would thereafter receive about us would be limited. We may choose not to file those reports for cost or other reasons. In addition, in the event we are not required to be a reporting issuer under the Exchange Act we will no longer be subject to certain rules intended to protect U.S. investors, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our determination not to file those reports could have the result of limiting the market for our shares, and thereby have a negative effect on our stock price. Should we not have an obligation to file periodic reports in accordance with United States securities laws, we expect to file periodic reports in compliance with National Instrument 51-102 of the Canadian securities regulators so long as shares of our common stock is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange. Our shares are registered on the Toronto Stock Exchange and not on any U.S. exchange. Because we are not currently listed on any U.S. exchange, we do not have the same disclosure and corporate governance obligations as companies that are listed on a U.S. exchange. However, we are subject to corporate governance and disclosure requirements of companies listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and as a result of being a reporting issuer in each of the provinces of Canada. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 