Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors address the material risks and uncertainties concerning our business. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K when evaluating our business and financial condition and an investment in our common stock. Should any of the following risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, such developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We depend on our ability to continue to obtain federal government dredging contracts, and are therefore impacted by the amount of government funding for dredging projects. A reduction in government funding for dredging contracts can reduce our revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from federal government dredging contracts. Revenues related to contracts with federal agencies or companies operating under contracts with federal agencies and its percentage as a total of dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Federal government dredging revenue (in US$1,000) $ 289,120 $ 367,320 $ 347,923 Percent of dredging revenue from federal government 56 % 60 % 61 % 13 Table of Contents Amounts spent by the federal government on dredging are subject to the budgetary and legislative processes. We would expect the federal government to continue to improve and maintain ports as it has for many years, which will necessitate a certain level of federal spending. However, there can be no assurance that the federal government will allocate any particular amount or level of funds to be spent on dredging for any specified period. In addition, federal government contracts can be canceled at any time without penalty to the government, subject to our contractual right to recover our actual committed costs and profit on work performed up to the date of cancellation. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the federal government will not cancel any federal government contracts that have been or are awarded to us. A material reduction in government funding for dredging contracts could materially reduce our revenues and profits. Most of our dredging contracts are fixed-price contracts pursuant to which we charge a fixed price per unit of material dredged. If we are unable to accurately estimate our costs to complete our projects, our profitability could suffer. Most dredging contracts are fixed-price contracts where the customer pays a fixed price per unit (e.g., cubic yard) of material dredged. Fixed-price dredging contracts carry inherent risks, including risks of losses from underestimating costs, operational difficulties and other changes that sometimes occur over the contract period. One of the more significant factors that can adversely affect the profitability of a dredging project is inclement or hazardous weather conditions that exceed our estimates. Such an event can result in substantial delays in performance time and cause additional contract expenses. In addition, most of our demolition contracts are fixed-price contracts where the customer pays a fixed price for our performance under the contract. Fixed-price demolition contracts carry similar risks to our fixed-price dredging contracts. If we were to significantly underestimate the costs on one or more significant contracts, the resulting losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any past quarter or quarters as an indication of future performance in our business operations or valuation of our stock. Our operating results could vary greatly from quarter to quarter due to factors such as: • inclement or hazardous weather conditions that may result in underestimated delays in dredging and additional contract expenses; • unplanned equipment downtime; • environmental restrictions requiring that certain projects be performed in winter months to protect wildlife habitats; and • equipment mobilization to and from projects. If our results of operations from quarter to quarter fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively impacted. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Primary Factors that Determine Operating Profitability.” Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a change in previously recorded revenue and profit. We recognize contract revenue using the percentage-of-completion method. The majority of our work is performed on a fixed-price basis. Contract revenue is accrued based on engineering estimates for the physical percent complete for dredging and estimates of remaining costs to complete for demolition. We use accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for accounting policies relating to our use of the percentage-of-completion method, estimating costs, revenue recognition, combining and segmenting contracts 14 Table of Contents and change order/claim recognition. Percentage-of-completion accounting relies on the use of estimates in the process of determining income earned. The cumulative impact of revisions to estimates is reflected in the period in which these changes are experienced or become known. Given the risks associated with the variables in these types of estimates, it is possible for actual costs to vary from estimates previously made, which may result in reductions or reversals of previously recorded net revenues and profits. We are subject to risks related to our international dredging operations. Revenue from foreign contracts and its percentage to total dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Foreign revenue (in US $1,000) $ 77,232 $ 82,898 $ 134,123 Percent of dredging revenue from foreign countries 15 % 14 % 23 % International operations subject us to additional potential risks, including: • uncertainties concerning import and export license requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; • political and economic instability; • reduced Middle Eastern demand as a result of fluctuations in the price of oil, the primary export in the Middle East; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; • difficulties in enforcing agreements through certain foreign legal systems; • requirements of, and changes in, foreign laws, policies and regulations; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations without additional expense; • taxation issues; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • difficulty in enforcing our contractual rights; • currency fluctuations; • logistical and communication challenges; and • improperly insured political, cultural and economic uncertainties, including acts of terrorism, civil unrest, war or other armed conflict. In addition, our international operations are subject to U.S. and other laws and regulations regarding operations in foreign jurisdictions. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include anti-competition laws, anti-corruption laws, tax laws, immigration laws and accounting requirements. Given the high level of complexity of these laws and despite the existence of our corporate compliance program, there is a risk that some provisions may be inadvertently breached, for example through fraudulent or negligent behavior of individual employees, or failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements or otherwise. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to operate in one or more countries, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 15 Table of Contents One customer currently accounts for a significant portion of our international revenue. Revenue from contracts with the government of Bahrain and entities with which it does business and its percentage to total foreign dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Bahrain government dredging revenue (in US$ 1,000) $ 47,311 $ 55,399 $ 126,026 Percent of foreign dredging revenue from the Bahrain government 61 % 67 % 94 % Revenue from foreign projects over the last three years has been concentrated in Bahrain and primarily with the government of Bahrain. The contraction in the Middle East real estate market has slowed the rate of the region’s infrastructure development. If the government of Bahrain further curtails its infrastructure investment or diversifies its use of dredging vendors, our revenue from this customer could decline further. In February and March 2011, Bahrain experienced civil unrest that could result in governmental instability. In response thereto, the government of Bahrain has instituted several measures, including a national curfew, that have impacted (although not materially to date) our ability to execute on projects in Bahrain. It is uncertain whether this civil unrest will continue, whether the current protests and other activities will lead to any meaningful government changes, and what additional restrictions, if any, the Bahrain government will establish. If the government changes, these measures are sustained, or additional restrictions are established, our Bahrain dredging operations, including the value of our assets related to such operations, may be adversely affected. In addition, it is uncertain if current events in Bahrain will alter the government’s plans for infrastructure investment. There are integration and consolidation risks associated with the Matteson acquisition. Future acquisitions may result in significant transaction expenses, unexpected liabilities and risks associated with entering new markets, and we may be unable to profitably operate these businesses. On December 31, 2010, we acquired Matteson. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire additional companies that expand, complement, or diversify our business. We regularly review various opportunities and periodically engage in discussions regarding possible acquisitions. The Matteson acquisition and future acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including risks associated with entering new markets, diversion of management’s attention from our existing business, failure to retain key personnel or customers of any acquired business, assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business for which there are inadequate reserves and potential impairment of acquired intangible assets. Although such risks and challenges have not yet arisen in connection with the Matteson acquisition, we may not have the appropriate management, financial or other resources needed to integrate any businesses that we acquire. Any future acquisitions may result in significant transaction expenses and unexpected liabilities. The amount of our estimated backlog is subject to change and not necessarily indicative of future revenues. Our contract backlog represents our estimate of the revenues that we will realize under the portion of the contracts remaining to be performed. For dredging contracts these estimates are based primarily upon the time and costs required to mobilize the necessary assets to and from the project site, the amount and type of material to be dredged and the expected production capabilities of the equipment performing the work. For demolition contracts, these estimates are based on the time and remaining costs required to complete the project relative to total estimated project costs and project revenues agreed to with the customer. However, these estimates are necessarily subject to variances based upon actual circumstances. Because of these factors, as well as factors affecting the time required to complete each job, backlog is not necessarily indicative of future revenues or 16 Table of Contents profitability. In addition, a significant amount of our dredging backlog (74% in 2011) relates to federal government contracts, which can be canceled at any time without penalty to the government, subject to our contractual right to recover our actual committed costs and profit on work performed up to the date of cancellation. Below is our dredging backlog from federal government contracts as of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 and the percentage of those contracts to total backlog as of the same date. The amount of our federal government dredging backlog at December 31, 2011 and 2010 includes amounts acquired in connection with the Matteson acquisition. Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Federal government dredging backlog (in US $1,000) $ 234,830 $ 141,411 $ 309,571 Percent of dredging backlog from federal government 74 % 50 % 85 % If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, our revenue could suffer. Our contracts with federal, state and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations and other contract provisions. Serious violations of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and fines and suspension from future government contracting. If we are suspended from government work for any reason, we could suffer a material reduction in revenue and cash flows. In addition, we may be subject to litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, referred to in this annual report as “qui tam” actions, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Qui tam actions are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information in the complaint are the complainant, the U.S. government and the court. Therefore, it is possible that qui tam actions have been filed against us and that we are not aware of such actions or have been ordered by the court not to discuss them until the seal is lifted. Thus, it is possible that we are subject to liability exposure for qui tam actions. We have indebtedness, which makes us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions. As of December 31, 2011, we had indebtedness of $255 million consisting of $250 million of senior subordinated notes and $5.0 million for a note issued as part of the Matteson acquisition. Our debt could: • require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures, pay dividends and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industries; • affect our competitiveness compared to our less leveraged competitors; • increase our exposure to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; and • limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. If we are unable, in the future, to obtain bonding or letters of credit for our dredging contracts, our ability to obtain future dredging contracts will be limited, thereby adversely affecting our business. We, like all dredging and demolition service providers and other contractors, are generally required to post bonds in connection with our domestic dredging contracts and bonds or letters of credit with our foreign dredging contracts to ensure job completion if we ever fail to finish a project. We have entered into a bonding agreement with Zurich, pursuant to which Zurich acts as surety, issues bid bonds, performance bonds and payment bonds, and provides guarantees required by us in the day-to-day operations of our dredging business. However, under 17 Table of Contents certain circumstances as specified in the agreement, Zurich is not obligated under the bonding agreement to issue future bonds for us. Historically, we have had a strong bonding capacity but, under standard terms in the surety market, surety companies issue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of collateral as a condition to issuing any bonds. With respect to our foreign dredging business, we generally obtain letters of credit under our senior credit facility and a separate facility which is supported by Ex-Im under Ex-Im’s Working Capital Guarantee Program. However, the amount of letters of credit under these facilities is limited. In addition, access to our senior credit facility and the Ex-Im facility may be limited by failure to meet certain financial requirements or other defined requirements. If we are unable to obtain bonds or letters of credit, our ability to take on future work would be severely limited. Our business would be adversely affected if we failed to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade, or if those provisions were modified or repealed. We are subject to the Jones Act and other federal laws that restrict dredging in U.S. waters and maritime transportation between points in the United States to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the United States, at least 75% owned and operated by U.S. citizens and manned by U.S. crews. We are responsible for monitoring the ownership of our common stock to ensure compliance with these laws. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the U.S. market, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. dredging rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. In the past, interest groups have unsuccessfully lobbied Congress to modify or repeal the Jones Act to facilitate foreign flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. flag vessels under the Jones Act. We believe that continued efforts may be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act or other federal laws currently benefiting U.S. flag vessels. If these efforts are ever successful, it could result in significantly increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our common stock is subject to restrictions on foreign ownership. We are subject to government regulations pursuant to the Dredging Act, the Jones Act, the Shipping Act and the vessel documentation laws set forth in Chapter 121 of Title 46 of the United States Code. These statutes require vessels engaged in the transport of merchandise or passengers or dredging in the navigable waters of the U.S. to be owned and controlled by U.S. citizens. The U.S. citizenship ownership and control standards require the vessel-owning entity to be at least 75% U.S.-citizen owned. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions limiting non-citizenship ownership of our capital stock. If our board of directors determines that persons who are not citizens of the U.S. own more than 22.5% of our outstanding capital stock or more than 22.5% of our voting power, we may redeem such stock. The required redemption price could be materially different from the current price of our common stock or the price at which the non-citizen acquired the common stock. If a non-citizen purchases our common stock, there can be no assurance that he will not be required to divest the shares and such divestiture could result in a material loss. Such restrictions and redemption rights may make our equity securities less attractive to potential investors, which may result in our common stock having a lower market price than it might have in the absence of such restrictions and redemption rights. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel and may also increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of our vessels will increase. 18 Table of Contents The average age of our more significant vessels as of December 31, 2011, by equipment type, is as follows: Type of Equipment Quantity AverageAge inYears Hydraulic Dredges 20 35 Hopper Dredges 8 30 Mechanical Dredges 5 36 Unloaders 2 34 Drillboats 2 35 Material and Other Barges 146 31 Total 183 32 Remaining economic life has not been presented because it is not reasonably quantifiable because, to the extent that market conditions warrant the expenditures, we can prolong the vessels’ lives indefinitely. We operate in an industry where a significant portion of competitors’ equipment is of a similar age. It is common in the dredging industry to make maintenance and capital expenditures in order to extend the economic life of equipment. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us, along with others in our industry, to make additional expenditures. For example, if the U.S. Coast Guard enacts new standards, we may be required to incur expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment (e.g. more fuel efficient engines). Other new standard requirements could be significant and would affect other industry participants as well. In order to satisfy any such requirement, we may need to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. We may experience equipment or mechanical failures, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in penalties for failure to meet project completion requirements. The successful execution of contracts requires a high degree of reliability of our vessels, barges and equipment. The average age of our fleet as of December 31, 2011 was 32 years. Breakdowns not only add to the costs of executing a project, but they can also delay the completion of subsequent contracts, which are scheduled to utilize the same assets. We operate a scheduled maintenance program in order to keep all assets in good working order, but despite this, breakdowns can and do occur. Environmental regulations could force us to incur capital and operational costs. Our industry, and more specifically, our operations, facilities and vessels, are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to, among other things: dredging operations; the disposal of dredged material; protection of wetlands; storm water and waste water discharges; demolition activities; asbestos removal; transportation and disposal of wastes and other regulated materials; air emissions; and remediation of contaminated soil, sediments, surface water and groundwater. We, and others who participate in the marine industry, are also subject to laws designed to protect certain marine species and habitats. Compliance with these statutes and regulations can delay permitting and/or performance of particular projects and increase related project costs. These delays and increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Non-compliance can also result in fines, penalties and claims by third parties seeking damages for alleged personal injury, as well as damages to property and natural resources. Certain environmental laws such as the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 impose strict and, under some circumstances, joint and several, liability on owners and operators of facilities and vessels for investigation and remediation of releases and discharges of regulated materials, and also impose liability for related damages to natural resources. Our past 19 Table of Contents and ongoing operations involve the use and from time to time the release or discharge of regulated materials which could result in liability under these and other environmental laws. We have remediated known releases and discharges as deemed necessary, but there can be no guarantee that additional costs will not be incurred if, for example, third party claims arise or new conditions are discovered. Our projects may involve demolition, excavation, transportation, management and disposal of hazardous waste and other regulated materials. Various laws strictly regulate the removal, treatment and transportation of hazardous waste and other regulated materials and impose liability for human health effects and environmental contamination caused by these materials. Our demolition business, for example, requires us to transport and dispose of hazardous substances and other wastes, such as asbestos. Services rendered in connection with hazardous substance and material removal and site development may involve professional judgments by licensed experts about the nature of soil conditions and other physical conditions, including the extent to which hazardous substances and materials are present, and about the probable effect of procedures to mitigate problems or otherwise affect those conditions. If the judgments and the recommendations based upon those judgments are incorrect, we may be liable for resulting damages, which may be material. The failure of certain contractual protections to protect us from incurring such liability, such as staying out of the ownership chain for hazardous waste and other regulated materials and securing indemnification obligations from our customers or subcontractors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Environmental requirements have generally become more stringent over time, for example in the areas of air emissions controls for vessels and ballast treatment and handling. New or stricter enforcement of existing laws, the discovery of currently unknown conditions or accidental discharges of regulated materials in the future could cause us to incur additional costs for environmental matters which might be significant. We may be affected by market or regulatory responses to climate change. Increased concern about the potential impact of greenhouse gases (GHG), such as carbon dioxide resulting from combustion of fossil fuels, on climate change has resulted in efforts to regulate their emission. For example, there is a growing consensus that new and additional regulations concerning GHG emissions including “cap and trade” legislation may be enacted, which could result in increased compliance costs for us. Legislation, international protocols, regulation or other restrictions on GHG emissions could also affect our customers. Such legislation or restrictions could increase the costs of projects for our customers or, in some cases, prevent a project from going forward, thereby potentially reducing the need for our services which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Additionally, in our normal course of operations, we use a significant amount of fossil fuels. The costs of controlling our GHG emissions or obtaining required emissions allowances in response to any regulatory change in our industry could increase materially. Our business could suffer in the event of a work stoppage by our unionized labor force. We are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements in the U.S. that govern our industry’s relationships with our unionized hourly workforce. Specifically, four primary agreements apply to approximately 65% of these employees. Our three contracts with Local 25 Operators Union for the northern, southern and gulf regions, representing approximately 43% of our unionized workforce, are set to expire in October 2012. Our agreement with Seafarers International Union expired in February 2012 and we have negotiated a new agreement which is subject to ratification by its members. The inability to successfully renegotiate contracts with these unions as they expire, or any future strikes, employee slowdowns or similar actions by one or more unions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Our employees are covered by federal laws that may provide seagoing employees remedies for job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. Substantially all of our seagoing employees are covered by provisions of the Jones Act and general maritime law. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against 20 Table of Contents employers for job-related injuries in federal or state courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes with respect to our seagoing employees, we have greater exposure for claims made by these employees as compared to industries whose employees are not covered by these provisions. Our business is subject to significant operating risks and hazards that could result in damage or destruction to persons or property, which could result in losses or liabilities to us. The dredging and demolition businesses are generally subject to a number of risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, encountering unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins below water levels, collisions, disruption of transportation services and flooding. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, dredges, transportation vessels, other maritime structures and buildings, and could also result in personal injury, environmental damage, performance delays, monetary losses or legal liability to third parties. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all. We maintain various insurance policies, including hull and machinery, general liability and personal injury. We partially self-insure risks covered by our policies. While we reserve for such losses for accounting purposes, we are not required to, and do not, specifically set aside funds for the self-insured portion of claims. At any given time, we are subject to multiple personal injury claims and we maintain substantial loss accruals for these claims. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. We may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain such insurance coverage at acceptable rates or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Our demolition business includes key customer relationships and our reputation in the Massachusetts construction market, both of which have been developed and maintained primarily by our demolition employees. Loss of any of these elements could materially reduce our demolition revenues and profits. Demolition contracts are entered into on a project by project basis, so we do not have continuing contractual commitments with our demolition customers beyond the terms of the current contract. We benefit from key relationships with certain general and construction contractors in the Massachusetts market but have transitioned these relationships to new management installed in 2011. We also benefit from our reputation in the Massachusetts market developed over years of successfully performing on projects. Both of these aspects of the business were developed and are maintained primarily by the officers of NASDI. The inability to maintain relationships with these customers or obtain new customers based on NASDI’s reputation could reduce the revenue and profitability from demolition contracts. Our inability to retain certain executives could have a material adverse effect on our demolition segment’s current customer relationships and reputation. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover that you may consider favorable. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter, delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us. These provisions include: • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend our charter documents, including stockholder supermajority voting requirements; • the inability of stockholders to call special meetings; • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for stockholder proposals; and 21 Table of Contents • the authority of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and to issue additional shares of our common stock. We are also subject to the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless board or stockholder approval was obtained. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, discourage others from making tender offers for our shares, lower the market price of our stock or impede the ability of our stockholders to change our management, even if such changes would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our stockholders may not receive dividends because of restrictions in our debt agreements, Delaware law and state regulatory requirements. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by the agreements governing our debt, including our senior credit agreement, our bonding agreements and the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes. In addition, under Delaware law, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of our surplus, as calculated in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law, or, if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. To the extent we do not have adequate surplus or net profits, we will be prohibited from paying dividends. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for holders to resell our common stock when they want or at prices that they find attractive. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • changes in market conditions; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; • changes in the economy and the financial markets; • departures of key personnel; • changes in governmental regulations; and • geopolitical conditions, such as acts or threats of terrorism, political instability, civil unrest or military conflicts. In addition, in recent years, global stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons often unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. 22 Table of Contents Adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The domestic and worldwide capital and credit markets have experienced and are experiencing significant volatility, disruptions and dislocations with respect to price and credit availability. Should we need additional funds or to refinance our existing indebtedness, we may not be able to obtain such additional funds. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity are cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior credit facility. In the event these resources do not satisfy our liquidity needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. If internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. We enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate paid with respect to our fixed rate indebtedness, foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge currency risk and heating oil commodity swap contracts to hedge the risk that fluctuations in diesel fuel prices will have an adverse impact on cash flows associated with our domestic dredging contracts. The United States Congress has passed, and the President has signed into law, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Financial Reform Act”). The Financial Reform Act provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including foreign currency hedging transactions. The Financial Reform Act requires the Commodities Futures and Trading Commission to promulgate rules relating to the Financial Reform Act. When the rules relating to the Financial Reform Act are established, we will assess the effect, if any, they will have on us. The rules adopted by the Commodities Futures and Trading Commission may in the future significantly reduce our ability to execute strategic hedges to manage our interest expense and reduce our fuel commodity uncertainty and thus protect cash flows. In addition, the banks and other derivatives dealers who are our contractual counterparties will be required to comply with the Financial Reform Act’s new requirements, and the costs of their compliance will likely be passed on to customers such as ourselves, thus potentially decreasing the benefits to us of swap and hedging transactions and potentially reducing our profitability. The current weakness in the economic environment and other factors could lead to our goodwill and other intangible assets becoming impaired, which may require us to take significant non-cash charges against earnings. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets have been impaired. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets as a result of such analysis would result in a non-cash charge against earnings, which charge could materially adversely affect our reported net income and our stock price. We test goodwill annually for impairment in the third quarter of each year, or more frequently should circumstances dictate. A significant and sustained decline in our future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the economic environment, slower growth rates or our stock price falling below our net book value per share for a sustained period could result in the need to perform additional impairment analysis in future periods. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets is necessary, then we would be required to record a non-cash charge against earnings, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our reported net income and the book value of our stockholders’ equity. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and skilled labor, our ability to bid for and successfully complete contracts may be negatively impacted. Our ability to attract and retain reliable, qualified personnel is a significant factor that enables us to successfully bid for and profitably complete our work. This includes members of our management, project managers, estimators, supervisors, foremen, equipment operators and laborers. The loss of the services of any of our management could have a material adverse effect on us. If we do not succeed in retaining our current key employees and attracting, developing and retaining new highly-skilled employees, our reputation may be harmed and our operations and future earnings may be negatively impacted. We may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. We have from time-to time experienced, and may in the future experience, shortages of certain types of qualified equipment operating personnel. The supply of experienced engineers, project managers, field supervisors and other skilled workers may not be sufficient to meet current or expected demand. If we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant training expenses. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and value of our common stock. We may become liable for the obligations of our joint ventures, partners and subcontractors. Some of our projects are performed through joint ventures and similar arrangements with other parties. In addition to the usual liability of contractors for the completion of contracts and the warranty of our work, where work is performed through a joint venture, we also have potential liability for the work performed by our joint ventures. In these projects, even if we satisfactorily complete our project responsibilities within budget, we may incur additional unforeseen costs due to the failure of our joint ventures to perform or complete work in accordance with contract specifications. In some joint ventures and similar arrangements, we may not be the controlling partner. In these cases, we may have limited control over the actions of the joint venture. In addition, these joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. To the extent the controlling partner makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control problems arise within the joint venture, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We act as prime contractor on many of the projects we undertake. Depending on the nature of work required to complete the project, we may choose to subcontract a portion of the project. In our industry, the prime contractor is normally responsible for the performance of the entire contract, including subcontract work. Thus, when acting as a prime contractor, we are subject to the risk associated with the failure of one or more subcontractors to perform as anticipated. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 