Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors address the material risks and uncertainties concerning our business. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K when evaluating our business and financial condition and an investment in our common stock. Should any of the following risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, such developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We have grouped our Risk Factors under captions that we believe describe various categories of potential risk. For the reader’s convenience, we have not duplicated risk factors that could be considered to be included in more than one category. Risks Related to our Business We depend on our ability to continue to obtain federal government dredging and other contracts, and are therefore impacted by the amount of government funding for dredging and other projects. A reduction in government funding for dredging or other contracts, or government cancellation of such contracts, could materially adversely affect our business operations, revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from federal government contracts, particularly dredging contracts. Revenues related to dredging contracts with federal agencies or companies operating under contracts with federal agencies and the percentage as a total of dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Federal government dredging revenue (in US $1,000) $ 329,185 $ 405,434 $ 289,120 Percent of dredging revenue from federal government 51 % 69 % 56 % Amounts spent by the federal government on dredging and remediation are subject to the budgetary and legislative processes. We would expect the federal government to continue to improve and maintain ports as it has for many years, which will necessitate a certain level of federal spending. However, there can be no assurance that the federal government will allocate any particular amount or level of funds to be spent on dredging or remediation projects for any specified period. In addition, potential contract cancellations, modifications, protests, suspensions or terminations may arise from resolution of these issues and could cause our revenues, profits and cash flows to be lower. Federal government contracts can be canceled at any time without penalty to the government, subject to, in most cases, our contractual right to recover our actual committed costs and profit on work performed up to the date of cancellation. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the federal government will not cancel any federal government contracts that have been or are awarded to us. Even if a contract is not cancelled, the government may elect to not award further work pursuant to a contract. A significant reduction in government funding for dredging or remediation contracts, could materially adversely affect our business, operations, revenues and profits. We depend on our ability to qualify as an eligible bidder under government contract criteria and to compete successfully against other qualified bidders in order to obtain government dredging and other contracts. Our inability to qualify or to compete successfully for certain contracts could materially adversely affect our business operations, revenues and profits. The U.S. government conducts a rigorous competitive process for awarding most contracts. Some contracts include multiple award task order contracts in which several contractors are selected as eligible bidders for future work. We will face strong competition and pricing pressures for any additional contract awards from the U.S. government, and we may be required to qualify or continue to qualify under various multiple award task order contract criteria. Our inability to qualify as an eligible bidder under government contract criteria could 16 Table of Contents preclude us from competing for certain government contract awards. In addition, our inability to qualify as an eligible bidder, or to compete successfully when bidding for certain government contracts and to win those contracts, could materially adversely affect our business, operations, revenues and profits. The nature of our contracts, particularly those that are fixed-price, subjects us to risks associated with cost over-runs, operating cost inflation and potential claims for liquidated damages. If we are unable to accurately estimate our costs to complete our projects, our profitability could suffer. We conduct our business under various types of contracts where costs are estimated in advance of our performance. Most dredging contracts are fixed-price contracts where the customer pays a fixed price per unit (e.g., cubic yard) of material dredged. In addition, most of our demolition and remediation contracts carry similar risks to our fixed-price dredging contracts. Fixed-price contracts carry inherent risks, including risks of losses from underestimating costs, operational difficulties, and other changes that sometimes occur over the contract period. If our estimates prove inaccurate, if there are errors or ambiguities as to contract specifications, or if circumstances change due to, among other things, unanticipated technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, inclement or hazardous weather conditions, changes in cost of equipment or materials, or our suppliers’ or subcontractor’s inability to perform, then cost over-runs and delays in performance are likely to occur. We may not be able to obtain compensation for additional work performed or expenses incurred. Additionally, we may be required to pay liquidated damages upon our failure to meet schedule or performance requirements of our contracts. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for fixed-price contracts or our failure to perform our contractual obligations within the expected time frame and costs could result in reduced profits or, in certain cases, a loss for that contract. If we were to significantly underestimate the costs on one or more significant contracts, the resulting losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Our results of operations depend on the award of new contracts and the timing of the performance of these contracts. As a result, our quarterly operating results may vary significantly. Our quarterly and annual results of operations have fluctuated from period to period in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any past quarter or quarters as an indication of future performance in our business operations or valuation of our stock. Our operating results could vary greatly from period to period due to factors such as: • the timing of contract awards and the commencement or progress of work under awarded contracts; • inclement or hazardous weather conditions that may result in underestimated delays in dredging, demolition or remediation and additional contract expenses; • planned and unplanned equipment downtime; • our ability to recognize revenue from pending change orders, which is not recognized until the recovery is probable and collectability is reasonably assured; • environmental restrictions requiring that certain projects be performed in winter months to protect wildlife habitats; and • equipment mobilization to and from projects. If our results of operations from quarter to quarter fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively impacted. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Primary Factors that Determine Operating Profitability.” If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, our revenue could suffer, and we could be subject to significant potential liabilities. Our contracts with federal, state and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations and contract provisions. These regulations also subject us to examinations by government auditors 17 Table of Contents and investigators, from time to time, to ensure compliance and to review costs. Violations of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, which could include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, imposition of payments and fines and suspension or debarment from future government contracting. If we fail to continue to qualify for or are suspended from work under a government contract for any reason, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. In addition, we may be subject to litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, referred to in this annual report as “qui tam” actions, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Qui tam actions are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information in the complaint are the complainant, the U.S. government and the court. Therefore, it is possible that qui tam actions have been filed against us and that we are not aware of such actions or have been ordered by the court not to discuss them until the seal is lifted. Thus, it is possible that we are subject to liability exposure arising out of qui tam actions. We are subject to risks related to our international dredging operations. Revenue from foreign contracts and its percentage to total dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Foreign revenue (in US $1,000) $ 138,436 $ 112,242 $ 77,232 Percent of dredging revenue from foreign countries 22 % 19 % 15 % The international dredging market is highly competitive and competition in the international market is dominated by four large European dredging companies all of which operate larger equipment and fleets that are more extensive than the Company’s. In addition, there are several governmentally supported dredging companies that operate on a local or regional basis. Competing for international dredging projects requires a substantial investment of resources, skilled personnel and capital investment in equipment and technology, and may adversely affect our ability to deploy resources for domestic dredging projects. International operations subject us to additional potential risks, including: • uncertainties concerning import and export license requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; • political and economic instability; • reduced demand as a result of fluctuations in the price of oil, the primary export in the Middle East; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; • difficulties in enforcing contractual rights and agreements through certain foreign legal systems; • requirements of, and changes in, foreign laws, policies and regulations; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations without additional expense; • taxation issues; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • currency fluctuations; • logistical and communication challenges; and • inability to effectively insure against political, cultural and economic uncertainties, including acts of terrorism, civil unrest, war or other armed conflict. 18 Table of Contents In addition, our international operations are subject to U.S. and other laws and regulations regarding operations in foreign jurisdictions. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include anti-boycott laws, anti-competition laws, anti-corruption laws, tax laws, immigration laws, privacy laws and accounting requirements. There is a risk that some provisions may be breached, for example through inadvertence or mistake, fraudulent or negligent behavior of individual employees, or failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements or otherwise. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to operate in one or more countries, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, military action or continued unrest in the Middle East could affect the safety of our personnel in the region and significantly increase the costs of, or disrupt our operations in, the region and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. A significant portion of our international revenue is earned from large, single customer contracts. The Company earns significant revenue from governmental entities in the Middle East. Revenue from foreign projects has been concentrated in Bahrain and primarily with the government of Bahrain which comprised 15%, 71% and 61% of our foreign dredging revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In 2013, a large, single customer contract was signed in Qatar with a local government entity. This contract represented 34% of the Company’s 2013 foreign dredging revenue from all sources. The Company continues to maintain significant equipment in the Middle East region and continues to pursue additional contracts in the region. Certain factors have occurred suggesting that future revenues from projects with governments in the Middle East could decrease. The contraction in the Middle East real estate market has slowed the rate of the region’s infrastructure development. If our commercial relationship with Bahrain or Qatar is terminated, the Company’s international revenues would be materially and adversely impacted. If the government of Bahrain or Qatar further curtails its infrastructure investment or diversifies its use of dredging vendors, our revenue from these customers could decline further. Bahrain continues to experience civil unrest and political protests that could result in governmental instability. In response thereto, the government of Bahrain may institute measures, such as a national curfew, that may impact our ability to execute on projects in Bahrain. It is uncertain whether civil unrest will continue, whether the current protests and other activities may lead to any meaningful government changes, and what restrictions, if any, the Bahrain government may establish. In addition, such events may affect the Bahrain government’s plans for infrastructure investment. If the government changes or significant restrictions are established, our Bahrain dredging operations, including the value of our assets related to such operations, may be adversely affected. Other Middle East governments have national dredging companies or have significant history with competitive dredging vendors other than the Company. The Company could lose future contracts for work in the Middle East to these competitors or could be forced to accept lower margins on contracts in order to utilize the equipment that is in the Middle East. In addition, the Company may be forced to shrink the workforce in place or relocate dredging assets from this region in reaction to lower contract earnings. Lower utilization, workforce reductions or asset relocations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. The Company earns significant revenue from a large, single customer foreign contract. The contract is with another dredging company and is subject to terms that limit our ability to control the operations affecting the profitability of the Company’s contract. The expected revenue and profit on this contract is subject to material changes based upon the actual time and costs incurred to perform the work and the realization of contract incentives which may be outside the Company’s control. Changes in the estimated profitability of this contract may have a material effect on the Company’s operating results, cash flows or financial condition until the project is completed, which is expected in 2015. 19 Table of Contents Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a change in previously recorded revenue and profit. We recognize contract revenue using the percentage-of-completion method. The majority of our work is performed on a fixed-price basis. Contract revenue is accrued based on engineering estimates for the physical percent complete for dredging and estimates of remaining costs to complete for environmental & remediation. We use generally accepted accounting principles in the United States relating to the percentage-of-completion method, estimating costs, revenue recognition, combining and segmenting contracts and change order/claim recognition. Percentage-of-completion accounting relies on the use of estimates in the process of determining income earned. The cumulative impact of revisions to estimates is reflected in the period in which these changes are experienced or become known. Given the risks associated with the variables in these types of estimates, it is possible for actual costs to vary from estimates previously made, which may result in reductions or reversals of previously recorded net revenues and profits. We reported a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in the fiscal year ending December 2012. Future lapses in disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could materially and adversely affect our operations, profitability or reputation. In connection with management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting in the fiscal year ended December 2012 and interim quarterly periods in that fiscal year, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and also restated our financial results for the second and third quarters of 2012. We believe we have taken the steps necessary to remediate the material weakness and the controls implemented to remediate the material weakness were determined to be operating effectively as of December 31, 2013. There can be no assurance that our disclosure controls and procedures will be effective in the future or that a material weakness or significant deficiency in internal control over financial reporting could not occur. Any such lapses or deficiencies may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition, restrict our ability to access the capital markets, require us to expend significant resources to correct the lapses or deficiencies, expose us to regulatory or legal proceedings, including litigation brought by private individuals, subject us to fines, penalties or judgments, harm our reputation, or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence and our stock price. Further, we have incurred significant costs in connection with the announcement of the restatement and our remediation efforts. These costs include additional professional fees related to the remediation of the material weakness as well as ongoing costs related to litigation arising from the restatement. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding this litigation. There can be no assurances that we will not have to incur additional significant costs in connection with these matters. The amount of our estimated backlog is subject to change and not necessarily indicative of future revenues. Our contract backlog represents our estimate of the revenues that we will realize under the portion of the contracts remaining to be performed. For dredging contracts these estimates are based primarily upon the time and costs required to mobilize the necessary assets to and from the project site, the amount and type of material to be dredged and the expected production capabilities of the equipment performing the work. For demolition and remediation contracts, these estimates are based on the time and remaining costs required to complete the project relative to total estimated project costs and project revenues agreed to with the customer. However, these estimates are necessarily subject to variances based upon actual circumstances. From time to time, changes in project scope may occur with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog and could reduce the dollar amount of our backlog and the timing of the revenue and profits that we actually earn. Projects may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time because of the nature of the project and the timing of the particular services or equipment required by the project. Because of these factors, as well as factors affecting the time required to complete each job, backlog is not necessarily indicative of future revenues or profitability. In addition, a significant amount of our dredging backlog (75% in 2013) relates to federal government contracts, which can be canceled at any time without 20 Table of Contents penalty to the government, subject, in most cases, to our contractual right to recover our actual committed costs and profit on work performed up to the date of cancellation. Below is our dredging backlog from federal government contracts as of December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 and the percentage of those contracts to total backlog as of the same date. Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Federal government dredging backlog (in US $1,000) $ 385,141 $ 85,675 $ 234,830 Percentage of dredging backlog from federal government 75 % 22 % 74 % In addition, as of December 31, 2013, 17% of our total backlog relates to a single customer in an international market. Our contract with this customer has certain contractual rights that, if invoked, limit our scope in the project. The termination, modification or suspension of projects currently in backlog could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business, operations and profits. Our business would be adversely affected if we failed to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade, or if those provisions were modified or repealed. We are subject to the Jones Act and other federal laws that restrict dredging in U.S. waters and maritime transportation between points in the United States to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the United States, at least 75% owned and operated by U.S. citizens and manned by U.S. crews. We are responsible for monitoring the ownership of our common stock to ensure compliance with these laws. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the U.S. market, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. dredging rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. In the past, interest groups have unsuccessfully lobbied Congress to modify or repeal the Jones Act to facilitate foreign flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. flag vessels under the Jones Act. We believe that continued efforts may be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act or other federal laws currently benefiting U.S. flag vessels. If these efforts are ever successful, it could result in significantly increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. If we are unable, in the future, to obtain bonding or letters of credit for our contracts, our ability to obtain future contracts will be limited, thereby adversely affecting our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. We are generally required to post bonds in connection with our domestic dredging, remediation or demolition contracts and bonds or letters of credit with our foreign dredging contracts to ensure job completion if we ever fail to finish a project. We have entered into a bonding agreement with Zurich, pursuant to which Zurich acts as surety, issues bid bonds, performance bonds and payment bonds, and provides guarantees required by us in the day-to-day operations of our dredging business. However, under certain circumstances as specified in the agreement, Zurich is not obligated under the bonding agreement to issue future bonds for us. Historically, we have had a strong bonding capacity, but surety companies issue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of collateral as a condition to issuing any bonds. In addition to our bonds outstanding with Zurich, we also have surety bonds outstanding with Travelers Casualty and Surety Company of America. With respect to our foreign dredging business, we generally obtain letters of credit under our senior credit facility and a separate facility which is supported by Ex-Im under Ex-Im’s Working Capital Guarantee Program. However, the amount of letters of credit under these facilities is limited. In addition, access to our senior credit facility and the Ex-Im facility may be limited by failure to meet certain financial requirements or other defined requirements. If we are unable to obtain bonds or letters of credit on terms reasonably acceptable to us, our ability to take on future work would be severely limited. 21 Table of Contents Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel and may also increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, which could result in a decrease in our profits. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of our vessels will increase. The average age of our more significant vessels as of December 31, 2013, by equipment type, is as follows: Type of Equipment Quantity AverageAge inYears Hydraulic Dredges 20 46 Hopper Dredges 7 31 Mechanical Dredges 5 38 Unloaders 1 29 Drillboats 2 37 Material and Other Barges 134 31 Total 169 35 Remaining economic life has not been presented because it is not reasonably quantifiable because, to the extent that market conditions warrant the expenditures, we can prolong the vessels’ lives indefinitely. We operate in an industry where a significant portion of competitors’ equipment is of a similar age. It is common in the dredging industry to make maintenance and capital expenditures in order to extend the economic life of equipment. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations, standards imposed by vessel classification societies and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make additional expenditures. For example, if the U.S. Coast Guard enacts new standards, we may be required to incur expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment (e.g. more fuel efficient engines). Other new standard requirements could be significant. In order to satisfy any such requirement, we may need to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. We may experience equipment or mechanical failures, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in penalties for failure to meet project completion requirements. The successful performance of contracts requires a high degree of reliability of our vessels, barges and equipment. The average age of our fleet as of December 31, 2013 was 35 years. Breakdowns not only add to the costs of executing a project, but they can also delay the completion of subsequent contracts, which are scheduled to utilize the same assets. We operate a scheduled maintenance program in order to keep all assets in good working order, but despite this, breakdowns can and do occur. We could face liabilities and/or damage to our reputation as a result of some of legal and regulatory proceedings. From time to time, we are subject to legal and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. These include proceedings relating to aspects of our businesses that are specific to us and proceedings that are typical in the businesses in which we operate. We are currently a defendant in a number of litigation matters, including those described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In certain of these matters, the plaintiffs are seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts of damages. These matters are subject to many uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these matters could ultimately be decided, resolved or settled adversely to the Company. An adverse outcome in a legal or regulatory matter could, depending on the facts, have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. 22 Table of Contents In addition to its potential financial impact, legal and regulatory matters can have a significant adverse reputational impact. Allegations of improper conduct made by private litigants or regulators, whether the ultimate outcome is favorable or unfavorable to us, as well as negative publicity and press speculation about us, whether valid or not, may harm our reputation, which may be damaging to our business, results of operations and profits. We may become liable for the obligations of our joint ventures, partners and subcontractors. Some of our projects are performed through joint ventures and similar arrangements with other parties. In addition to the usual liability of contractors for the completion of contracts and the warranty of our work, if work is performed through a joint venture or similar arrangement, we also have potential liability for the work performed by the joint venture or arrangement. In these projects, even if we satisfactorily complete our project responsibilities within budget, we may incur additional unforeseen costs due to the failure of the other party or parties to the arrangement to perform or complete work in accordance with contract specifications. In some joint ventures and similar arrangements, we may not be the controlling partner. In these cases, we may have limited control over the actions of the joint venture. In addition, these joint ventures or arrangements may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. To the extent the controlling partner makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or arrangement or internal control problems arise within the joint venture or arrangement, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Depending on the nature of work required to complete the project, we may choose to subcontract a portion of the project. In our industries, the prime contractor is often responsible for the performance of the entire contract, including subcontract work. Thus, we are subject to the risk associated with the failure of one or more subcontractors to perform as anticipated. In addition, in some cases, we pay our subcontractors before our customers pay us for the related services. If we choose, or are required, to pay our subcontractors for work performed for customers who fail to pay, or delay paying us for the related work, we could experience a material decrease in profitability and liquidity. Our current business strategy includes the construction of new vessels. There are substantial uncertainties associated with such construction, including the possibility of unforeseen delays and cost overruns. We have previously disclosed our plans to build new vessels, including a new hopper dredge. Our future revenues and profitability will be impacted to some extent by our ability to complete the construction of new vessels, secure financing for them and bring them into service. The Company contracts with shipyards to build new vessels and currently has vessels under construction. Construction projects are subject to risks of delay and cost overruns, resulting from shortages of equipment, materials and skilled labor; lack of shipyard availability; unforeseen design and engineering problems; work stoppages; weather interference; unanticipated cost increases; unscheduled delays in the delivery of material and equipment; and financial and other difficulties at shipyards including labor disputes, shipyard insolvency and inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals. A significant delay in the construction of new vessels or a shipyard’s inability to perform under the construction contract could negatively impact the Company’s ability to fulfill contract commitments and to realize timely revenues with respect to vessels under construction. Significant cost overruns or delays for vessels under construction could also adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, could substantially increase the cost of such construction beyond what we currently expect such costs to be. Specifically, with regard to our new hopper dredge, we have previously disclosed that we have terminated our contract with the shipyard originally hired for this construction and entered into a contract with a new shipyard at a significantly higher cost. We cannot predict whether and to what extent there may be additional costs associated with building this dredge or further delays in its completion. 23 Table of Contents Our current business strategy includes acquisitions which present certain risks and uncertainties. There are integration and consolidation risks associated with our acquisitions. Future acquisitions may result in significant transaction expenses, unexpected liabilities and risks associated with entering new markets, and we may be unable to profitably operate these businesses. We seek business acquisition activities as a means of broadening our offerings and capturing additional market opportunities by our business units. We may be exposed to certain additional risks resulting from these activities. Future acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including: • the effects of valuation methodologies which may not accurately capture the value proposition; • the failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations with the efficiency and effectiveness initially expected resulting in a potentially significant detriment to the associated business line’s financial results and our operations as a whole; • the management of the growth resulting from acquisition activities; • the inability to capitalized on expected synergies; • the assumption of liabilities of an acquired business (for example, litigation, tax liabilities, environmental liabilities); including liabilities that were contingent or unknown at the time of the acquisition that pose future risks to our working capital needs, cash flows and the profitability of related operations; • the assumption of unprofitable projects that pose future risks to our working capital needs, cash flows and the profitability of related operations; • the risks associated with entering new markets; • diversion of management’s attention from our existing business; • failure to retain key personnel, customers or contracts of any acquired business; • potential adverse effects on our ability to comply with covenants in our existing debt financing; • potential impairment of acquired intangible assets; and • additional debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. We may not have the appropriate management, financial or other resources needed to integrate any businesses that we acquire. Any future acquisitions may result in significant transaction expenses and unexpected liabilities. Our current business strategy includes the divestiture of our demolition business, which presents certain risks and uncertainties. On February 25, 2014 the Company announced that, during the fourth quarter, the management team proposed, and the board of directors approved, a plan to sell our historical demolition business. The pursuit of the sale of this business raises some of the same risks associated with pursuing acquisitions, including diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; failure to achieve financial or operating objectives; potential loss of customers or key employees; and volatility in the Company’s stock price. We cannot predict whether and to what extent we will be successful in effecting a divestiture of our demolition business. Following divestiture, there may be ongoing costs and expenses related to the discontinued operations for certain retained liabilities and asset recoveries. The divestiture of the historic demolition business could result in the Company becoming subject to significant withdrawal liability with respect to one or more multiemployer pension plans in which the subsidiaries in the historic demolition business participate. Some of the multiemployer plans in which we participate are reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. A future incurrence of withdrawal liability could have a material adverse impact on the ongoing costs and expenses related to the discontinued operations. Failure to divest the demolition business could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Environmental regulations could force us to incur capital and operational costs. Our industry, and more specifically, our operations, facilities and vessels, are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to, among other things: dredging operations; the disposal of dredged material; protection of wetlands; storm water and waste water discharges; demolition activities; asbestos removal; transportation and disposal of wastes and other regulated materials; air emissions; and remediation of contaminated soil, sediments, surface water and groundwater. We are also subject to laws designed to protect certain marine species and habitats. Compliance with these statutes and regulations can delay permitting and/or performance of particular projects and increase related project costs. These delays and increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Non-compliance can also result in fines, penalties and claims by third parties seeking damages for alleged personal injury, as well as damages to property and natural resources. Certain environmental laws such as the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 impose strict and, under some circumstances, joint and several, liability on owners and lessees of land and facilities as well as owners and operators of vessels. Such obligations may include investigation and remediation of releases and discharges of regulated materials, and also impose liability for related damages to natural resources. Our past and ongoing operations involve the use, and from time to time the release or discharge, of regulated materials which could result in liability under these and other environmental laws. We have remediated known releases and discharges as deemed necessary, but there can be no guarantee that additional costs will not be incurred if, for example, third party claims arise or new conditions are discovered. Our projects may involve demolition, excavation, remediation, transportation, management and disposal of hazardous waste and other regulated materials. Various laws strictly regulate the removal, treatment and transportation of hazardous waste and other regulated materials and impose liability for human health effects and environmental contamination caused by these materials. Our demolition business, for example, requires us to transport and dispose of hazardous substances and other wastes, such as asbestos. Services rendered in connection with hazardous substance and material removal and site development may involve professional judgments by licensed experts about the nature of soil conditions and other physical conditions, including the extent to which hazardous substances and materials are present, and about the probable effect of procedures to mitigate problems or otherwise affect those conditions. If the judgments and the recommendations based upon those judgments are incorrect, we may be liable for resulting damages, which may be material. The failure of certain contractual protections to protect us from incurring such liability, such as staying out of the ownership chain for hazardous waste and other regulated materials and securing indemnification obligations from our customers or subcontractors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, revenues or profits. Environmental requirements have generally become more stringent over time, for example in the areas of air emissions controls for vessels and ballast treatment and handling. New or stricter enforcement of existing laws, the discovery of currently unknown conditions or accidental discharges of regulated materials in the future could cause us to incur additional costs for environmental matters which might be significant. Our business could suffer in the event of a work stoppage by our unionized labor force. We are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements in the U.S. that govern our industry’s relationships with our unionized hourly workforce. However, three unions represent approximately 55% of our dredging employees—the International Union of Operating Engineers (“IUOE”), Local 25 and the Seafarers International Union. The Company’s contracts with IUOE, Local 25 and the Seafarers International Union expire in September 2015. The inability to successfully renegotiate contracts with these unions as they expire, or any future strikes, employee slowdowns or similar actions by one or more unions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. 25 Table of Contents Our employees are covered by federal laws that may provide seagoing employees remedies for job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. Substantially all of our seagoing employees are covered by provisions of the Jones Act and general maritime law. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal or state courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes with respect to our seagoing employees, we have greater exposure for claims made by these employees as compared to industries whose employees are not covered by these provisions. Our business is subject to significant operating risks and hazards that could result in damage or destruction to persons or property, which could result in losses or liabilities to us. The dredging, demolition and remediation businesses are generally subject to a number of risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, encountering unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins below water levels, collisions, disruption of transportation services and flooding. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, dredges, transportation vessels, other maritime structures and buildings, and could also result in personal injury, environmental damage, performance delays, monetary losses or legal liability to third parties. We may also be exposed to disruption of our operations and loss of use of our equipment that may materially adversely reduce our revenue and profits. Our safety record is an important consideration for our customers. If serious accidents or fatalities occur or our safety record was to deteriorate, we may be ineligible to bid on certain work, and existing service arrangements could be terminated. Adverse experience with hazards and claims could have a negative effect on our reputation with our existing or potential new customers and our prospects for future work. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all. We maintain various insurance policies, including hull and machinery, pollution liability, general liability and personal injury. We partially self-insure risks covered by our policies. While we reserve for such self-insured exposures when appropriate for accounting purposes, we are not required to, and do not, specifically set aside funds for the self-insured portion of claims. At any given time, we are subject to Jones Act personal injury claims and claims from general contractors and other third parties for personal injuries. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. We may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain such insurance coverage at acceptable rates or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, profits or financial condition. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and skilled labor, our ability to bid for and successfully complete contracts may be negatively impacted. Our ability to attract and retain reliable, qualified personnel is a significant factor that enables us to successfully bid for and profitably complete our work. This includes members of our management, project managers, estimators, skilled engineers, supervisors, foremen, equipment operators and laborers. The loss of the services of any of our management could have a material adverse effect on us. If we do not succeed in retaining our current key employees and attracting, developing and retaining new highly-skilled employees, our reputation may be harmed and our operations and future earnings may be negatively impacted. We may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. We have from time to time experienced, and may in the future experience, shortages of certain types of qualified equipment operating personnel. The supply of experienced engineers, project managers, field supervisors and other skilled workers may not be sufficient to meet current or expected demand. If we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant training 26 Table of Contents expenses. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. We rely on information technology systems to conduct our business and disruption, failure or security breaches of these systems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely on information technology (IT) systems in order to achieve our business objectives. Our portfolio of hardware and software products, solutions and services and our enterprise IT systems may be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control such as catastrophic events, power outages, natural disasters, computer system or network failures, computer viruses, cyber attacks or other malicious software programs. The failure or disruption of our IT systems to perform as anticipated for any reason could disrupt our business and result in decreased performance, significant remediation costs, transaction errors, loss of data, processing inefficiencies, downtime, failure to properly estimate the work or costs associated with projects, litigation and the loss of customers or suppliers. A significant disruption or failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. We are incurring costs associated with designing and implementing a new enterprise resource planning software system (ERP) with the objective of gradually migrating to the new system. Capital expenditures and expenses for the ERP for 2014 and beyond will depend upon the pace of conversion. If implementation is not executed successfully, this could result in business interruptions. If we do not complete the implementation of the ERP timely and successfully, we may incur additional costs associated with completing this project and a delay in our ability to improve existing operations, support future growth and enable us to take advantage of new engineering and other applications and technologies. We may be affected by market or regulatory responses to climate change. Increased concern about the potential impact of greenhouse gases (GHG), such as carbon dioxide resulting from combustion of fossil fuels, on climate change has resulted in efforts to regulate their emission. For example, there is a growing consensus that new and additional regulations concerning GHG emissions including “cap and trade” legislation may be enacted, which could result in increased compliance costs for us. Legislation, international protocols, regulation or other restrictions on GHG emissions could also affect our customers. Such legislation or restrictions could increase the costs of projects for our customers or, in some cases, prevent a project from going forward, thereby potentially reducing the need for our services which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Additionally, in our normal course of operations, we use a significant amount of fossil fuels. The costs of controlling our GHG emissions or obtaining required emissions allowances in response to any regulatory change in our industry could increase materially. Risks Related to our Financing We have indebtedness, which makes us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions. As of December 31, 2013, we had indebtedness of $285 million consisting of $250 million of senior subordinated notes and $35 million of borrowings on our revolving credit facility. Our debt could: • require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures, pay dividends and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industries; • affect our competitiveness compared to our less leveraged competitors; • increase our exposure to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; and • limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. 27 Table of Contents In addition, we currently anticipate financing the construction and completed cost of our new hopper dredge under an operating lease or similar financing structure. If we are unable to secure that financing due to our current debt levels, credit ratings, size of the vessel cost and uncertainty of market conditions, it could have a material effect on the Company’s operating results, cash flows or financial condition in future periods. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The domestic and worldwide capital and credit markets may experience significant volatility, disruptions and dislocations with respect to price and credit availability. Should we need additional funds or to refinance our existing indebtedness, we may not be able to obtain such additional funds. In 2013, our credit rating was downgraded. As a result, we may have difficulty securing future funding, or funding may be on terms less favorable to us. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity are cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior credit facility. In the event these resources do not satisfy our liquidity needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. If internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. We may enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate paid with respect to our fixed rate indebtedness, foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge currency risk and heating oil commodity swap contracts to hedge the risk that fluctuations in diesel fuel prices will have an adverse impact on cash flows associated with our domestic dredging contracts. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Financial Reform Act”) provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including foreign currency and other over-the-counter derivative hedging transactions. Several rulemaking requirements in the Financial Reform Act have not promulgated into final rules and the Company could be negatively impacted by future rulemaking. The rules currently adopted from the Financial Reform Act may significantly reduce our ability to execute strategic hedges to manage our interest expense, reduce our fuel commodity uncertainty and hedge our currency risk thus protecting our cash flows. In addition, the banks and other derivatives dealers who are our contractual counterparties are required to comply with extensive new regulation under the Financial Reform Act. The cost of our counterparties’ compliance will likely be passed on to customers such as ourselves, thus potentially decreasing the benefits to us of hedging transactions and potentially reducing our profitability. We are subject to foreign exchange risks, and improper management of that risk could result in large cash losses. We are exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The primary foreign currencies to which the Company has exposure are the Bahraini dinar, the Australian dollar and the Brazilian real. Our international contracts may be denominated in foreign currencies, which will result in additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. Changes in the value of foreign currencies could increase our U.S. dollar costs for, or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues from, our foreign operations. Any increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could affect our profits. The value of the Bahraini dinar has historically been pegged to the value of the U.S. dollar, which has effectively eliminated the foreign currency risk with respect to that currency. However, if the dinar were no longer to be so pegged, whether due to civil unrest in Bahrain or otherwise, the Company could become subject to additional, and substantial, foreign currency risk. 28 Table of Contents The current uncertainty in the economic environment and other factors could lead to our goodwill and other intangible assets becoming impaired, which may require us to take significant non-cash charges against earnings. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets have been impaired. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets as a result of such analysis would result in a non-cash charge against earnings, which charge could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. We test goodwill annually for impairment in the third quarter of each year, or more frequently should circumstances dictate. A significant and sustained decline in our future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the economic environment, slower growth rates or our stock price falling below our net book value per share for a sustained period could result in the need to perform additional impairment analysis in future periods. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets is necessary, then we would be required to record a non-cash charge against earnings, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. In the second quarter of 2013, the Company recorded an impairment charge at its demolition reporting unit of $21.5 million. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. We have made and may continue to make debt or equity investments in privately financed projects in which we could sustain significant losses. We have participated and may continue to participate in privately financed projects that enable state and local governments and other customers to finance dredging, demolition and remediation projects, such as dredging of local navigable waterways and lakes, coastal protection and environmental remediation projects. These projects typically include the facilitation of non-recourse financing and the provision of dredging, demolition, remediation and related services. We may incur contractually reimbursable costs and may extend debt financing and/or make an equity investment in an entity prior to, in connection with, or as part of project financing, and in some cases we may be the sole or primary source of the project financing. If a project is unable to obtain other financing on terms acceptable to it in amounts sufficient to repay or redeem our investments, we could incur losses on our investments and any related contractual receivables. After completion of these projects, the return on our equity investments can be dependent on the operational success of the project and market factors, which may not be under our control. As a result, we could sustain a loss of part or all of our equity investments in such projects. Risks Related to our Stock Our common stock is subject to restrictions on foreign ownership. We are subject to government regulations pursuant to the Dredging Act, the Jones Act, the Shipping Act and the vessel documentation laws set forth in Chapter 121 of Title 46 of the United States Code. These statutes require vessels engaged in the transport of merchandise or passengers or dredging in the navigable waters of the U.S. to be owned and controlled by U.S. citizens. The U.S. citizenship ownership and control standards require the vessel-owning entity to be at least 75% U.S.-citizen owned. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions limiting non-citizenship ownership of our capital stock. If our board of directors determines that persons who are not citizens of the U.S. own more than 22.5% of our outstanding capital stock or more than 22.5% of our voting power, we may redeem such stock. The required redemption price could be materially different from the current price of our common stock or the price at which the non-citizen acquired the common stock. If a non-citizen purchases our common stock, there can be no assurance that he will not be required to divest the shares and such divestiture could result in a material loss. Such restrictions and redemption rights may make our equity securities less attractive to potential investors, which may result in our common stock having a lower market price than it might have in the absence of such restrictions and redemption rights. 29 Table of Contents Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover that you may consider favorable. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter, delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us. These provisions include: • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend our charter documents, including stockholder supermajority voting requirements; • the inability of stockholders to call special meetings; • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for stockholder proposals; and • the authority of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and to issue additional shares of our common stock. We are also subject to the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless board or stockholder approval was obtained. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, discourage others from making tender offers for our shares, lower the market price of our stock or impede the ability of our stockholders to change our management, even if such changes would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our stockholders may not receive dividends because of restrictions in our debt agreements, Delaware law and state regulatory requirements. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by the agreements governing our debt, including the Credit Agreement, our bonding agreements and the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes. In addition, under Delaware law, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of our surplus, as calculated in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law, or, if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. To the extent we do not have adequate surplus or net profits, we will be prohibited from paying dividends. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for holders to resell our common stock when they want or at prices that they find attractive. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • changes in market conditions; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; 30 Table of Contents • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; • changes in the economy and the financial markets; • departures of key personnel; • changes in governmental regulations; and • geopolitical conditions, such as acts or threats of terrorism, political instability, civil unrest or military conflicts. In addition, in recent years, global stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons often unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 