Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment in our common stock, you should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, including our financial statements and the notes thereto and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The risks described below are those that we believe are the material risks that we face. Any of the risk factors described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose a part or all of your investment. We have incurred annual net losses since our inception, and we may continue to incur annual net losses in the future. Our annual net loss in 2005, 2006 and 2007 was $8.0 million, $6.2 million and $6.6 million, respectively. Our accumulated deficit from inception through December 31, 2007, was $58.8 million. Initially, our net losses were driven principally by start-up costs and the costs of developing our technology. More recently, our net losses have been driven principally by general and administrative, marketing, operating and depreciation expenses relating to capital expenditures for equipment required to support our capacity programs. To grow our revenues and customer base, we plan to continue emphasizing the expansion and development of our capacity programs, which will include increased marketing and operating expenses. In the short-term, our success in operating our capacity contracts would have a negative effect on earnings because of the consumer acquisition costs we incur during the installation phase of the contract. These increased costs may cause us to incur net losses in the foreseeable future, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to grow our revenues and expand our client base to become profitable. Furthermore, these expenses are not the only factors that may contribute to our net losses. For example, interest expense on our currently outstanding debt and any debt we incur in the future will contribute to our net losses. As a result, even if we significantly reduce our marketing or operating expenses, we may continue to incur net losses in the future. 12 Table of Contents We may not receive the payments anticipated by our long-term contracts and recognize revenues from our backlog, and comparisons of period-to-period estimates are not necessarily meaningful, may not be indicative of actual payments and should not be relied upon. Payments from long-term contracts represent our estimate of the total payments that our contracts allow us to receive over the course of long-term agreements in our Smart Grid Solutions and Alternative Energy Resources Groups. Our estimated payments from these long-term contracts are based on a number of assumptions. The expectations regarding our Smart Grid Solutions Group’s annual and multi-year contracts include assumptions relating to purchase orders received, contractual minimum order volumes and purchase orders that we expect to receive under a contract if it is extended based on amounts and timing of historical purchases. We also assume that we will be able to meet our obligations under these contracts on a timely basis. The expectations regarding the build-out of our capacity contracts are based on our experience to date in building out the load management systems. Our estimated payments from long-term contracts as of December 31, 2007 assume that we will build out the approximately 310 megawatts remaining under our VPC and base load capacity contracts by the end of 2010. If we are not able to meet this build-out schedule, we have higher than expected withdrawal by consumers from our programs or if the measurement and verification results are lower than expected, we may not be able to receive the full amount of estimated payments from long-term contracts. Additionally, one of our VPC contracts gives us the option to increase or decrease our contractual capacity at various times during the agreement, and we are currently operating under the assumption that we will increase the contracted capacity when available under the contract in the later years of that contract. We assume that we will operate our capacity contracts at their maximum contractual capacity for the remainder of the term once full build-out is completed and that the payments resulting from our measurement and verification tests performed each contract year, as discussed below, will remain constant based on our current performance. We also assume that we will not be required to pay any penalties under these contracts, whether for liquidated damages or otherwise, that no contracts will be terminated for convenience or other reasons by our customers and that the rate of replacement of participant terminations under our capacity contracts will remain consistent with our historical average. Changes in our estimates or any of these assumptions, the number of load control devices installed, changes in our measurement and verification test results and payments, contracts being rescheduled, cancelled or renewed, disputes as to actual capacity provided, or new contracts being signed before existing contracts are completed, and other factors, may result in actual payments from long-term contracts being significantly lower than estimated payments from long-term contracts. A comparison of estimated payments from long-term contracts from period to period is not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of actual payments and should not be relied upon. The Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control denied the VPC contract with The Connecticut Light and Power Company, as initially submitted, on November 9, 2007. After working with The Connecticut Light and Power Company to amend the agreement, on March 3, 2008, we resubmitted the agreement for approval within the parameters suggested by the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control. There is no assurance that we will receive regulatory approval for the Connecticut Light and Power Company VPC contract. On March 13, 2008, the California Public Utilities Commission issued an order denying approval of our VPC contract with Southern California Edison. Pursuant to the Commission’s statements, Comverge intends to work with Southern California Edison to resubmit the agreement in accordance with the parameters suggested by the Commission. There is no assurance that we will receive regulatory approval for the Southern California Edison VPC contract. Our backlog represents our estimate of revenues from firm commitments, including purchase orders and long-term contracts, that we expect to recognize over the course of the next 12 months. The inaccuracy of any of our estimates and other factors may result in actual results being significantly lower than estimated under our reported backlog. Accordingly, a comparison of backlog from period to period is not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of actual revenues and should not be relied upon. 13 Table of Contents We operate in highly competitive markets; if we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and revenues. We face strong competition from traditional clean energy providers, both larger and smaller than us, from advanced metering infrastructure equipment and energy service providers. Advanced metering infrastructure systems generally include advanced meter reading with a demand response component, including a communications infrastructure. Energy service providers typically provide expertise to utilities and end-use consumers relating to energy audits, demand reduction or energy efficiency measures. We also compete against traditional supply-side resources such as natural gas-fired power plants and independent power producers. In addition, some providers of advanced meter reading products may add demand response products or energy services to their existing business, and other such providers may elect to add similar offerings in the future. Further, energy service providers may add their own demand response solutions, which could decrease our base of potential customers and could decrease our revenues and profitability. Certain energy service and advanced metering infrastructure providers are substantially larger and better capitalized than us and have the ability to combine (1) advanced meter reading or commodity sales and (2) demand response products into an integrated offering to a large existing customer base. Because many of our target customers already purchase either advanced meter reading, energy efficiency products or services, demand response products or services, or commodities from one or more of our competitors, our success depends on our ability to attract target customers away from their existing providers or to partner with one or more of these entities to distribute our products. In addition, the target market for our capacity programs has been composed largely of “early adopters,” or customers who have sought out new technologies and services. Because the number of early adopters is limited, our continued growth will depend on our success in marketing and selling our capacity programs to mainstream customers in our target markets. Larger competitors could focus their substantial financial resources to develop a competing business model that may be more attractive to potential customers than what we offer. Competitors who also provide advanced metering infrastructure or energy services may offer such services at prices below cost or even for free in order to improve their competitive positions. In addition, because of the other services that our competitors provide, they may choose to offer clean energy services as part of a bundle that includes other products, such as residential advanced meter reading and automated invoicing, which we do not offer. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, cause us to lower our prices in order to compete and reduce our market share and revenues. Some of our strategic alliances are not exclusive, and accordingly, the companies with whom we have strategic alliances may in the future elect to compete with us by developing and selling competing products and services. In addition, these companies have similar, and often more established, relationships with our customers, and may recommend other products and services to their customers instead of our products and services. The significant competition in our industry has resulted in increasingly aggressive pricing, and we anticipate that prices may continue to decrease. We believe that in some instances our prices are currently higher than those of our competitors for similar solutions. Users of our solutions may switch to another clean energy provider based on price, particularly if they perceive the quality of our competitors’ products to be equal to or better than that of our products. Continued price decreases by our competitors could result in a loss of customers or a decrease in the growth of our business, or it may require us to lower our prices to remain competitive, which would result in reduced revenues and lower profit margins and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and delay or prevent our future profitability. If we have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. There were no material weaknesses identified by management or our independent registered accounting firm during the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a 14 Table of Contents remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. In accordance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management and independent registered public accounting firm were not required to and did not perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. However, control deficiencies were identified by management and our independent registered public accounting firm during the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007, which may give rise to one or more material weaknesses in future periods. A material weakness may exist when we report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for purposes of our reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As part of our business strategy, we plan to pursue the acquisition of complementary businesses. Once we acquire a new business, we must integrate the accounting system for the business with our own, and we may experience challenges in our internal control over financial reporting as a result. Any such difficulty we encounter could increase the risk of a material weakness. Enerwise and PES were both private companies prior to the acquisitions and did not maintain internal control and financial reporting systems that are equivalent to those of a public company. We are currently integrating the accounting systems of both Enerwise and PES with our own and improving these systems as a whole to ensure proper reporting. Although we have not experienced any material difficulties to date, we may experience certain challenges or integration may take longer than expected, which may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. The existence of one or more material weaknesses in any period would preclude a conclusion that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. Such conclusion would be required to be disclosed in our future Annual Reports on Form 10-K and may impact the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting and the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting. We could be required to make substantial refunds or pay damages to power pools or our utility customers if the actual amount of electric capacity we provide under our capacity programs is materially less than estimated under the applicable agreements. We typically operate our capacity programs through long-term, fixed price contracts with our utility customers. Under our base load contracts, our utility customers make periodic payments based on verified load reduction after inspecting and confirming the capacity reduced through energy efficiency measures. While the base load is able to be permanently reduced once the energy efficiency devices are installed and verified, the utility often retains the right to conduct follow up inspections for subsequent years. If the energy consumer removes the installed devices, shuts down operations or vacates the physical premises, there is the potential that any subsequent inspection by our utility customer would result in a lower amount of base load reduced capacity than originally verified, which may consequently obligate us to pay a penalty. In addition, if we fail to fulfill the required contracted capacity, we would be obligated to pay a penalty. Under our power pool auction contracts, which typically have a term of one to three years, we sell capacity that we obtain through our programs to power pools. Under these power pool contracts, the power pool makes periodic payments to us based on estimates of the amount of electric capacity that we expect to make available to them during the contract year. We refer to these payments as proxy payments and electric capacity on which proxy payments are made as estimated capacity. A contract year generally begins on June 1 and ends May 31 of the following year. We and the power pool analyze results of the metering data collected during the capacity events to determine the capacity that was available to the power pool during the actual event. Any discrepancy between our analysis of the metering data and the analysis from the power pool could result in lower than expected revenues or potential damages payable by us. Under our VPC contracts, which typically have a term of five to ten years, our utility customers make periodic payments to us based on estimates of the amount of electric capacity we expect to make available to them during the contract year. We refer to these payments as proxy payments and electric capacity on which proxy payments 15 Table of Contents are made as estimated capacity. During contract negotiations or the first contract year of a VPC program, estimated capacity is negotiated and established by the contract. A contract year generally begins at the end of the summer months, after a utility’s seasonal peak energy demand for electricity. We refer to this seasonal peak energy demand as the cooling season. For example, the cooling season for one of our VPC contracts runs from June 1 to August 31, and the contract year for this agreement begins on September 1 and ends on August 31. We and our utility customers analyze results of measurement and verification tests that are performed during the cooling season of each contract year to statistically determine the capacity that was available to the utility during the cooling season. We refer to measured and verified capacity as our available capacity. This available capacity also establishes the estimated capacity per device, which we generally refer to as our M&V factor, for that contract year. During each succeeding contract year, we generally receive proxy payments based on the prior year’s M&V factor and installed devices in the applicable service territory. Available capacity varies with the electricity demand of high-use energy equipment, such as central air conditioning compressors, at the time measurement and verification tests are conducted, which, in turn, depends on factors beyond our control such as fluctuations in temperature and humidity. Although our contracts often contain restrictions regarding the time of day and, in some cases, the day of the week the measurement and verification tests are performed, the actual time within the agreed testing period that the tests are performed is beyond our control. If the measurement and verification tests are performed during a period of generally lower electricity usage, then the capacity made available through our system could be lower than estimated capacity for the particular contract being tested. The correct operation of, and timely communication with, devices used to control equipment are also important factors that affect available capacity under our power pool and VPC contracts. Any difference between our available capacity and the estimated capacity on which proxy payments were previously made will result in either a refund payment from us to our utility customer or an additional payment to us by our customer. We refer to this process that results in a final settlement as a true-up. We have received aggregate additional payments of $2.2 million and $3.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. However, for the year ended December 31, 2007, we owe a refund payment to three of our VPC program customers. The utility customer in one of our VPC programs paid us for ten megawatts in excess of our contracted capacity in the proxy billings during the contract year. This will result in our returning the overpayment of $1.1 million when we submit the annual true-up settlement payment. A downward adjustment of $1.2 million was caused by our performance in the measurement and verification process in three of our VPC programs. Factors that affected our performance included climate, system performance, contractual terms, and energy consumption on the date of the tests. The refund of capacity overpayment and the true-up annual settlement payment results in a $2.3 million payment, in the aggregate. Any refund payments that we may be required to make (1) as a result of a subsequent inspection or failure to meet initial minimum capacity under our base load contracts, (2) to the power pool under our auction contracts, or (3) pursuant to a true-up settlement determination under our VPC contracts could be substantial and could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, because measurement and verification test results for each VPC contract establish estimated capacity on which proxy payments will be made for the following contract year, a downward adjustment in estimated capacity for a particular VPC contract would decrease the dollar amount of proxy payments for the following contract year and could significantly decrease our estimated backlog and estimated payments from long-term contracts. In addition, such adjustment could result in significant year-to-year variations in our quarterly and annual revenues A significant portion of our revenues are generated from contracts with a small number of electric utility customers, the postponement, modification or termination of which could significantly reduce our revenues. Our revenues historically have been generated from a small number of electric utility customers. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, our top ten electric utility customers accounted for approximately 80%, 78% and 70% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. In 2006, we had two customers that each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues: ISO New England Inc. (28%) and PacifiCorp (16%). Our capacity contracts are multi-year contracts that are subject to postponement, modification or termination by our utility customers. Such action by a 16 Table of Contents customer with respect to one or more of our significant contracts would significantly reduce our revenues. In 2007, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 70% of our consolidated revenues and two customers accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues: ISO New England Inc. (16%) and PJM Interconnection (10%). Our contracts with ISO New England, Inc. lapsed on October 1, 2007, per the original contractual terms. The expiration of our capacity contracts without obtaining a renewal or replacement capacity contract, or finding another revenue source for the capacity our operating assets can provide, could materially affect our business. Although we have entered into additional long-term contracts in different geographic regions and are regularly in discussions with our customers to extend our existing contracts or enter into new contracts with these existing customers, there can be no assurance that any of these contracts will be extended or that we will enter into new contracts on favorable terms. If these contracts are not extended or replaced, we would expect to enroll the capacity that we make available under such contracts in another demand response capacity program, although there is no assurance we would be able to do so. In addition, other programs could provide lower capacity payments than our existing fixed price contracts. Thus, the failure to renew any of these contracts could significantly reduce our revenues. For example, we operated two VPC contracts with ISO New England Inc. that provided 60 megawatts of capacity, in the aggregate. ISO New England Inc. did not extend the contracts beyond their original expiration date of October 1, 2007. We believe that we will utilize most of these assets in our contract with The Connecticut Light and Power Company, if the contract receives regulatory approval. If the Connecticut Light and Power Company contract is not approved, we intend to deploy a portion of the assets in an independent system operator forward capacity market auction, in which case, we will not be able to utilize all of the assets, may have some terminations from current residential participants, and will receive lower capacity payments as compared to the ISO contracts. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions successfully, which may inhibit our rate of growth, and we may not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses and acquisitions that we complete may expose us to a number of unanticipated operational or financial risks. In addition to organic growth, we have pursued and intend to continue pursuing growth through the acquisition of companies or assets that may enable us to enlarge our geographic markets, add experienced management and increase our product and service offerings. However, we may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable acquisition candidates or reach agreement on potential acquisitions on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Moreover, our acquisition efforts involve certain risks, including: • difficulty integrating operations and systems; • the potential for key personnel and customers of the acquired company terminating their relationships with the acquired company as a result of the acquisition; • additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning and financial reporting; • additional risks and liabilities (including for environmental-related costs) as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not discover during our due diligence; • disruption of our ongoing business or insufficient management attention to our ongoing business; and • realizing cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. The rapid growth of the clean energy sector may cause us to experience more competition for acquisition opportunities, which could result in higher valuations for acquisition candidates. As a result, we may be required to pay more for acquisitions we believe are beneficial, which could, in turn, require us to recognize additional 17 Table of Contents goodwill in connection with such acquisitions. To the extent that any acquisition results in additional goodwill, it will reduce our tangible net worth, which might have an adverse effect on our credit. In addition, in the event that we issue shares of our common stock as part or all of the purchase price, an acquisition will dilute the ownership of our then-current stockholders. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, synergies or productivity comparable to those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness and other expenses. There can be no assurance that our acquisition strategy will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to realize the anticipated synergies or expected revenue growth from our recent acquisitions of Enerwise and PES, we may experience difficulty integrating these businesses and we may incur significant cash integration costs. In July 2007, we acquired Enerwise and in September 2007, we acquired PES. Integration of these businesses requires significant management time and corporate resources. While we have not experienced any material difficulties to date, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully and fully integrate these businesses with our own. In addition, as both Enerwise and PES were private companies prior to the acquisitions, integration of their accounting systems with our own may require significant time resources of our internal accounting team. We may incur significant cash integration costs to achieve anticipated growth and we cannot assure you that we will realize the cost savings, synergies or expected revenue growth from integration of these acquisitions or within the time frame we expect or at all. We depend on the electric utility industry and associated power pool markets for revenues, and as a result, our operating results have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant variability due to volatility in electric utility capital spending or the power pool markets, and other factors affecting the electric utility industry. We derive substantially all of our revenues from the sale of products and services, directly or indirectly, to the electric utility industry and power pool markets. In relation to our electric utility customers, purchases of our products or services by electric utilities may be deferred or cancelled as a result of many factors, including consolidation among electric utilities, changing governmental regulations, weather conditions, rising interest rates, reduced electric utility capital spending and general economic downturns. In addition, a significant amount of revenues generated by our Smart Grid Solutions Group is dependent on long-term relationships with our utility customers, which are not always supported by long-term contracts. These revenues are particularly susceptible to variability based on changes in the spending patterns of our utility customers. The power pool markets in which we participate could be materially altered in ways that negatively affect our ability to participate and, in turn, result in decreased revenues. These markets typically utilize short-term contracts and often have price volatility. Prices in these markets typically fall whenever capacity providers place excessive amounts of capacity for auction in these markets. If prices decline below the point at which customers who typically participate in these programs recognize a benefit from participating or if they decide to participate with another provider, we would no longer be able to enroll these customers, which could result in us recognizing lower than expected revenues. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant variability in our revenues, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of these factors. Pronounced variability in the power pool markets or an extended period of reduction in spending by electric utilities could negatively impact our business and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast our future sales, which could lead to increased spending by us that is not matched with equivalent or better revenues. 18 Table of Contents Failure of key third parties to manufacture quality products or provide reliable services or proper installation of our products by Comverge or third parties could cause malfunctions of our products or delays in the delivery of our products or services, which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and negatively impact our growth. Our success depends on our ability to provide quality products and reliable services in a timely manner, which in part depends on the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties upon which we depend. For example, our reliance on third parties includes: • utilizing components that they manufacture in our products; • outsourcing cellular and paging wireless communications that are used to execute instructions to our (1) devices under our VPC programs and (2) clients in power pools; • utilizing products that they manufacture for our various capacity programs or power pool program outsourcing certain installation, maintenance, data collection and call center operations to third-party providers; and • buying capacity from third parties who have contracted with electricity consumers to participate in our VPC programs. Any delays, malfunctions, inefficiencies or interruptions in these products, services or operations could adversely affect the reliability or operation of our products or services, which could cause us to experience difficulty retaining current customers and attracting new customers. In addition, our brand, reputation and growth could be negatively impacted. For example, in three separate circumstances prior to 2006, battery failures, microprocessor failures and cracks in plastic enclosures in certain of our Smart Grid Group’s products resulted in significant product recalls. The costs of remedying these component failures were only partially refundable by third-party suppliers. In each case, we believe that the recalls resulted in reduced customer satisfaction. Furthermore, we are wholly dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and delivery of our products. In the event of a significant interruption in the manufacturing or delivery of our products by these vendors, considerable time, effort and expense could be required to establish alternate production lines at other facilities and our operations could be materially disrupted, which would cause us to not meet production deadlines and lose customers. In addition, we often are required to install such products, using Comverge employees or third party installers. To the extent such installation are faulty or inadequate, considerable time, effort and expense may be incurred to remedy the situation and restore customer satisfaction. Our failure to meet product development and commercialization milestones may result in customer dissatisfaction, cancellation of existing customer orders or our failure to successfully compete in new markets. In the past, we have not met all of our product development and commercialization milestones. For example, we are behind schedule in developing a next-generation demand response product for a major customer. This delay has resulted in a deferral of sales and gross profit associated with contracted delivery schedules for our products and is a source of customer dissatisfaction. In addition, we are behind schedule in developing a next-generation load management software product, resulting in a delay in the planned commercialization of this product. We establish milestones to monitor our progress toward developing commercially feasible products or to meet contractual delivery requirements of our customers. In meeting these milestones, we often depend on third-party contractors in the U.S. and other countries for much of our hardware manufacturing and software development. Internal delays or delays by third-party contractors could cause us to miss product development or delivery deadlines. In addition, internal development delays could result in the loss of commercially available hardware and software products, as we are unable to rely on outside vendors to provide such products when contractual rights for the supply or license of such products expire. We may not successfully achieve our milestones in the future, which could distract our employees, harm our relationships with our existing and potential customers, and result in cancelled orders, deferred or lost revenues and our inability to successfully compete in new markets. 19 Table of Contents Any internal or external security breaches involving our products could harm our reputation, and even the perception of security risks, whether or not valid, could inhibit market acceptance of our products and cause us to lose customers. Our customers use our products to compile and analyze sensitive and confidential information. The occurrence or perception of security breaches in our products or services could harm our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may come into contact with sensitive consumer information or data when we perform operational, support or maintenance functions for our utility customers. Even the perception that we have improperly handled sensitive, confidential information could have a negative effect on our business. If, in handling this information, we fail to comply with privacy or security laws, we could incur civil liability to government agencies, customers and individuals whose privacy is compromised. In addition, third parties may attempt to breach our security or inappropriately use our products through computer viruses, electronic break-ins and other disruptions. If a breach were successful, confidential information may be improperly obtained, and we may be subject to lawsuits and other liabilities. Any internal or external security breaches could harm our reputation, and even the perception of security risks, whether or not valid, could inhibit market acceptance of our products and cause us to lose customers. If we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, we may not be able to manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives. Many key responsibilities of our business have been assigned to a relatively small number of individuals. Our future success depends to a considerable degree on the vision, skills, experience and effort of our senior management team, including Robert M. Chiste, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President; Michael D. Picchi, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Frank A. Magnotti, the President and Chief Operating Officer of our Alternative Energy Resources Group; Dean W. Musser, the President and Chief Operating Officer of our Enerwise Group; Edward J. Myszka, the President and Chief Operating Officer of our Smart Grid Solutions Group; and Arthur Vos IV, our Vice President of Marketing and Strategy. We do not maintain key-person insurance on any of these individuals. Any loss or interruption of the services of any of our key employees could significantly reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations and implement our strategy. On December 31, 2007, Mr. T. Wayne Wren, Jr. resigned as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Comverge, Inc. Mr. Wren continues to work with Comverge as a consultant focusing on mergers, acquisitions and other strategic opportunities at the Company’s request. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon the maintenance and protection of the intellectual property related to our capacity programs and the hardware, firmware and software that we have acquired or developed internally. Patent protection is unavailable for certain aspects of the technology that is important to our business. In addition, one or more of our pending patent applications may not be issued. To date, we have attempted to rely on copyright, trademark and trade secrecy laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our rights to this technology. However, we have not obtained confidentiality agreements from all of our customers and vendors, some of our licensing or confidentiality agreements are not in writing, and some customers are subject to laws and regulations that require them to disclose information that we would otherwise seek to keep confidential. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and expensive, as is enforcing our rights against unauthorized use. The steps that we have taken or may take may not prevent misappropriation of the technology on which we rely. In addition, effective protection may be unavailable or limited if we expand to other jurisdictions outside the U.S., as the intellectual property laws of foreign countries sometimes offer less protection or have onerous filing requirements. We have previously been engaged in litigation to protect certain of our intellectual property, and further litigation may be necessary to enforce or protect our rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others. Any litigation could be unsuccessful, cause us to incur substantial costs and divert resources away from our daily business. 20 Table of Contents We may be subject to damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation related to allegations that our products or services infringe on intellectual property held by others, which could result in the loss of use of the product or service. Third-party patent applications and patents may be applicable to our products. As a result, third-parties may in the future make infringement and other allegations that could subject us to intellectual property litigation relating to our products and services, which litigation could be time-consuming and expensive, divert attention and resources away from our daily business, impede or prevent delivery of our products and services, and require us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees and damages. In addition, parties making infringement and other claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our services and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, or at all. Electric utility industry sales cycles can be lengthy and unpredictable and require significant employee time and financial resources with no assurances that we will realize revenues. Sales cycles with our customers can generally be long and unpredictable. Our customers include electric utilities and large commercial and industrial energy consumers that generally have extended budgeting, procurement and regulatory approval processes. In addition, electric utilities tend to be risk averse and tend to follow industry trends rather than be the first to purchase new products or services, which can extend the lead time for or prevent acceptance of new products or services such as our capacity programs or advanced metering initiatives. Accordingly, our potential customers may take longer to reach a decision to purchase products. This extended sales process requires the dedication of significant time by our personnel and our use of significant financial resources, with no certainty of success or recovery of our related expenses. It is not unusual for an electric utility or commercial and industrial energy consumer to go through the entire sales process and not accept any proposal or quote. In addition, pilot test programs, which are often conducted and analyzed before a sale becomes final, generally result in operating losses to us due to the lack of scalability, start-up costs, development expenditures and other factors. If we are unable to expand the distribution of our products through strategic alliances, we may not be able to grow our Smart Grid Solutions or Enerwise Groups. The ability of our Smart Grid Solutions and Enerwise Groups to grow their businesses depends partly on our success in continuing to increase the number of customers they serve through a variety of strategic marketing alliances with channel partners, metering companies, communications providers, advanced meter reading providers, installation companies and other large multinational companies. Revenues from strategic alliances have not historically accounted for a significant portion of our total revenues, although we plan to increasingly rely on such alliances to grow our business in the future. We may not be able to maintain productive relationships with the companies with which we have strategic alliances, and we may not be able to establish similar relationships with additional companies on a timely and economic basis, if at all. An increased rate of terminations of residential, commercial and industrial energy consumers, or the use of more efficient products by such consumers, who are enrolled in our VPC or power pool programs, or who would enroll in such program, would negatively impact our business by reducing our revenues and requiring us to spend more money to maintain and grow our participant base. Our ability to provide electric capacity under our capacity contracts depends on the number of residential, commercial and industrial energy consumers who enroll and participate in our programs. The average annual rate of participant terminations for our VPC programs from inception through December 31, 2007 was approximately 5%. As a result, we will need to acquire new participants on an ongoing basis to maintain available capacity provided to our utility customers. In addition, to the extent existing or future customers install high efficiency air 21 Table of Contents conditioning units which could minimize the effectiveness of our solution as to that consumer, we may face lower measurement and verification results. If we are unable to recruit and retain participants for our capacity programs, we will face difficulties acquiring capacity to sell through such programs or the ISO markets. Furthermore, the increased competition and the length of contracts for commercial and industrial capacity consumers may result in an increase of such consumers not re-enrolling when their contract ends or terminating their contract for a more lucrative offer, which could further restrict our ability to acquire capacity to sell into such programs. If participant termination rates increase, we will need to acquire more participants in order to maintain our revenues and more participants than estimated to grow our business. This loss of revenues resulting from participant terminations can be significant, and limiting terminations is an important factor in our ability to achieve future profitability. If we are unsuccessful in controlling participant terminations, we may be unable to acquire a sufficient number of new participants or we may incur significant costs to replace participants, which could cause our revenues to decrease, and we might not become profitable. The success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to develop new products and services and increase the functionality of our current products. Since 2001, we have invested over $8.0 million in research and development costs associated with our current smart grid products. From time to time, our customers have expressed a need for increased functionality in our products and software. In response, and as part of our strategy to enhance our clean energy solutions and grow our business, we plan to continue to make substantial investments in the research and development of new technologies. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue to design and manufacture new competitive products and software, to enhance our existing products and to provide new value-added services. Product development initiatives will require continued investment, and we may experience unforeseen problems in the performance of our technologies or products, including new technologies that we develop and deploy. Furthermore, we may not achieve market acceptance of our new products, solutions and software. For example, in the past we incurred significant costs to develop a specific product for large commercial and industrial customers that has found limited market acceptance. If we are unable to develop new products and services, or if the market does not accept such products and services, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to maintain low costs for established products supplied under fixed fee contracts, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. If we fail to hire and train additional personnel and improve our controls and procedures to respond to the growth of our business, the quality of our products and services could materially suffer and cause us to lose customers. Our business and operations have expanded rapidly since our inception. For example, from January 2003 through December 31, 2007, the number of our employees increased more than 300%, growing from 70 to 280. To continue supporting our expanding customer base effectively and to meet our growth objectives for the future, we are currently working to fill multiple positions within our company. In addition, we must continue to successfully train, motivate and retain our existing and future employees. In order to manage our expanding operations, we will also need to continue to improve our management, operational and financial controls and our reporting systems and procedures. All of these measures will require significant expenditures and will demand the attention of management. If we are not able to hire, train and retain the necessary personnel, or if these operational and reporting improvements are not implemented successfully, the quality of our products and services could materially suffer as a result and cause us to lose customers. We may not be able to maintain quality customer care during periods of growth or in connection with the addition of new and complex products or services, which could adversely affect our ability to acquire and retain utility customers and participants in our capacity programs. In the past, during periods of growth, we have not been able to expand our customer care operations quickly enough to meet the needs of our increased customer base, and the quality of our customer care has suffered. As 22 Table of Contents we add new and complex products and services, we will face challenges in increasing and training our customer care staff. If we are unable to hire, train and retain sufficient personnel to provide adequate customer care in a timely manner, we may experience customer dissatisfaction and increased participant terminations. We will require significant additional capital to pursue our growth strategy, but we may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. The growth of our business will depend on significant amounts of additional capital for marketing and product development of our capacity programs and smart grid products. In addition, we will consider strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies to grow our business, which could require significant capital and could increase our capital expenditures related to future operation of the acquired business or technology. We may not be able to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms or at all. Because of our losses, we do not fit traditional credit lending criteria, which, in particular, could make it difficult for us to obtain loans or to access the capital markets. Moreover, our senior loan and security agreement and our credit agreement contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, which, if not waived, could prevent us from obtaining needed capital. Any future credit facilities would likely contain similar restrictions. A failure to obtain additional financing when needed could adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our business. Our loan and security agreements contain financial and operating restrictions that may limit our access to credit. If we fail to comply with covenants in our loan and security agreements, we may be required to repay our indebtedness thereunder, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Provisions in our credit agreement with General Electric Capital Corporation, our senior loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank and our loan and security agreement with Partners for Growth, L.P. impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur more debt; • pay dividends and make distributions; • make certain investments; • redeem or repurchase capital stock; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • merge or consolidate. These agreements also contain other customary covenants, including covenants which require us to meet specified financial ratios and financial tests. We may not be able to comply with these covenants in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default and cause us to be unable to borrow under our credit agreement with General Electric Capital Corporation or our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under these agreements, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under these agreements, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all. 23 Table of Contents Our business may become subject to modified or new government regulation, which may negatively impact our ability to market our products. Our products and services are not subject to existing federal and state regulations in the U.S. governing the electric utility industry. However, our products and their installation are sometimes subject to government oversight and regulation under state and local ordinances relating to building codes, public safety regulations pertaining to electrical connections and local and state licensing requirements. In the future, federal, state or local governmental entities or competitors may seek to change existing regulations or impose additional regulations. Any modified or new government regulation applicable to our products or services, whether at the federal, state or local level, may negatively impact the installation, servicing and marketing of our products and increase our costs and the price of our products and services. Changes in the availability and regulation of radio spectrum may cause us to lose utility customers. A significant number of our products use radio spectrum, which is subject to regulation in the U.S. by the Federal Communications Commission. Licenses for radio frequencies must be obtained and periodically renewed. Licenses granted to us or our customers may not be renewed on acceptable terms, if at all. The Federal Communications Commission may adopt changes to the rules for our licensed and unlicensed frequency bands that are incompatible with our business. These changes in frequency allocation may result in the termination of demand response programs by our utility customers or the replacement of our systems with ones owned by our competitors. This would erode our competitive advantage with respect to those utility customers and would force us to compete with other providers for their business. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk” below. Our ability to provide bid bonds, performance bonds or letters of credit is limited and could negatively affect our ability to bid on or enter into significant long-term agreements. We are occasionally required to provide bid bonds or performance bonds to secure our performance under customer contracts. Our ability to obtain such bonds primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and reputation and external factors beyond our control, including the overall capacity of the surety market. Surety companies consider those factors in relation to the amount of our tangible net worth and other underwriting standards that may change from time to time. Events that affect surety markets generally may result in bonding becoming more difficult to obtain in the future, or being available only at a significantly greater cost. In addition, some of our customers also require collateral in the form of letters of credit to secure performance or to fund possible damages as the result of an event of default under our contracts with them. Our ability to obtain letters of credit under our credit agreement with General Electric Capital Corporation and our senior loan agreement is limited to $7.0 million in the aggregate. As of December 31, 2007, we had $1.6 million of letters of credit outstanding from these facilities. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding or letters of credit and, as a result, to bid or enter into significant long-term agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and business prospects. 24 Table of Contents We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, and slower growth rates in our industry. Goodwill and indefinite lived assets are required to be tested for impairment at least annually. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined. This could adversely impact our results of operations. Shares eligible for future sale may cause the market price for our common stock to decline even if our business is doing well. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital in the future through the sale of our equity securities. Under our fifth amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we are authorized to issue up to 150,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 20,893,336 shares of common stock were outstanding as of December 31, 2007. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares of our common stock, or the perception of such sales or issuances, would have on the market price of our common stock. Our fifth amended and restated certificate of incorporation, second amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our fifth amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our second amended and restated bylaws and applicable provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our fifth amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our second amended and restated bylaws: • provide for a classified board of directors, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control; • authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of stock to elect some directors; • require super-majority voting to effect amendments to certain provisions of our fifth amended and restated certificate of incorporation and to effect amendments to our second amended and restated bylaws concerning the number of directors; • limit who may call special meetings; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a stockholders meeting; and • require that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office. 25 Table of Contents In addition, Delaware law prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our common stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 