Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before investing in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information contained in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Any of the risks described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If one or more of these risks and uncertainties is realized, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Market Restrictions imposed by regulatory actions could have an adverse effect on us and failure to comply with any of their provisions could result in further regulatory action or restrictions. The Company and its subsidiary, Westsound Bank, are subject to regulatory actions, including an FDIC order, with respect to their operations, described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Recent Developments.” The FDIC order identified deficiencies within credit administration in connection with a lack of sufficient or adequate policies, procedures, and control with respect to the underwriting, documentation and monitoring of loans, the detection of risks related to the concentration and other risks associated with the residential construction and other loans, the determination of our provision for loan losses and possible violations or contraventions of law. Further, in 2006 the FDIC found that we violated the reporting requirements of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and other consumer banking laws, imposed penalties of $6,000 and required our board to enter into a memorandum of understanding to correct the violations and related deficiencies in our internal controls. These regulatory actions may limit our growth and adversely affect our earnings. Our future prospects and competitive position could be diminished and our profitability could be reduced, as a result of adverse conditions in the markets in which we operate. Our rapid growth prior to 2007 was driven in large part by a strong residential housing market in west Puget Sound and our ability to identify attractive expansion opportunities. A downturn in local economic market conditions, particularly in the real estate market, a failure to attract and retain high performing employees, heightened competition from other financial services providers, and an inability to attract additional core deposits and lending customers, among other factors, could limit our ability to grow in the future. Over 91% of our loans are real estate related, including loans for construction and land development projects and for the purchase, improvement or refinancing of residential and commercial real estate. An adverse change in the real estate market could cause collateral for loans made by us to decline in value, and loan delinquencies and problem assets to increase. Approximately 91.5% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2007 was comprised of loans secured by real estate, including construction and development, commercial and residential real estate loans. Approximately 73% of our residential real estate loans are single family (1-4 units) and 27% are multifamily. A downturn in the real estate market could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the property collateralizing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Over 61.2% of our loans are real estate construction and development loans, which have a higher degree of risk and a greater potential for losses that would reduce our earnings. Approximately 61.2% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2007 consisted of real estate construction and development loans, which generally have a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing properties because repayment depends on the completion of the project and usually on the sale of the property. 21 Table of Contents In addition, these loans are normally interest only. Interest-only loans carry greater risk than principal and interest loans do, to the extent that no principal is paid prior to maturity, particularly during a period of rising interest rates and declining real estate values. If there is a significant decline in the real estate market due to a material increase in interest rates or for other reasons, many of these loans could default and result in foreclosure. Moreover, most of these loans are for projects located in the west Puget Sound area. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, we may not be able to recover all of the unpaid portion of the loan or we may be required to fund additional money to complete the project or hold the property for an indeterminate period of time. Any of these outcomes may result in losses and reduce our earnings. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses due to loan defaults and non-performance on loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States to provide for such defaults and other non-performance. As of December 31, 2007, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans was 4.71%. The determination of the appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control. In addition, our underwriting policies, adherence to credit monitoring processes, and risk management systems and controls may not prevent unexpected losses. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. Moreover, any increase in our allowance for loan losses will adversely affect our earnings. We serve a limited geographic area, and an economic downturn in the west Puget Sound or Seattle Metropolitan Statistical Area could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. Our current geographic market consists primarily of the west Puget Sound area, including Kitsap County. The FDIC has characterized our headquarters in downtown Bremerton as being located in a “low income” area and our other branches and loan production offices as being located in “middle income” areas. As of December 31, 2007, our Kitsap County customers accounted for approximately 63% of our deposits and 54% of our loans. Because of our relatively small size and geographic concentration, adverse changes in local economic conditions, such as income levels, deposits and housing starts, would have a relatively greater affect on us than they would on the larger national and regional competitors that are active in our market areas. If local or regional economic conditions were to deteriorate, demand for our products and services likely would decline and the quality of our loan portfolio could be reduced. Kitsap County’s economy substantially depends on the military and tourism. While we believe that the local economy is diverse, the military has a significant presence in Kitsap County, including two major Navy bases which account for significant employment in the county. Although the federal government recently decided not to close any military bases in our market area, we cannot be certain that it will not do so in the future. We believe that few of our customers come from the military or its members, because most of their needs are met by a credit union. However, a significant reduction in the military presence in our market could have a material adverse effect on the local economy and potentially on our customers and business. In addition, the west Puget Sound area serves as a seasonal destination for many residents of the Seattle Metropolitan Statistical Area and a decline in that economy could affect real estate prices due to a slowdown in purchases by Seattle area residents as well as service businesses that rely on the seasonal traffic. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in real estate and a substantial majority of our loans and operations are in west Puget Sound, and therefore our business is particularly vulnerable to a downturn in the local real estate market. As of December 31, 2007 approximately 91.5% of our loans were secured by real estate, primarily located in our west Puget Sound market. If the local economy, and particularly the real estate market, declines, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses in our loan portfolio would likely increase. As a result of this lack of diversification in our loan portfolio a downturn in the local real estate market could significantly reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. 22 Table of Contents We have a relatively high percentage of unseasoned credits, which are considered to pose a potential greater repayment risk than loans that have been outstanding for a longer period of time. As a result of our rapid growth prior to 2007 and our focus on real estate construction and development lending, a significant portion of our loan portfolio is represented by new credits. Generally, loans that are relatively new, referred to as unseasoned loans, do not have sufficient repayment history to determine the likelihood of repayment in accordance with their terms. At December 31, 2007, 85.1% of our total loan portfolio consisted of loans booked within the past two years, including loan renewals. We are subject to extensive government regulation. Non-compliance with or material changes to existing regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. For example, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board recently issued joint Guidance on Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices, that sets forth supervisory criteria to assist bank examiners in identifying banks with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny. The Guidance applies to Westsound Bank, based on our current loan portfolio, and we expect that our business and operations will be subject to enhanced regulatory review for the foreseeable future. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or changes to the existing regulatory structure, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our profitability depends on interest rates generally, and we may be adversely affected by changes in market interest rates. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest income. Our net interest income depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change so that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. In addition, an increase in interest rates could adversely affect borrowers’ ability to pay the principal or interest on existing loans or reduce their desire to borrow more money. This may lead to an increase in our nonperforming assets, a decrease in loan originations, or a reduction in the value of and income from our loans, any of which could have a material and negative effect on our results of operations. Fluctuations in market rates and other market disruptions are neither predictable nor controllable and may adversely affect our financial condition and earnings. The ratio of variable to fixed rate loans in our loan portfolio, the ratio of short-term (maturing at a given time within 12 months) to long-term loans, and the ratio of our demand, money market and savings deposits to CDs (and their time periods), are the primary factors affecting the sensitivity of our net interest income to changes in market interest rates. As of December 31, 2007, 39.4% of our $414.0 million gross loan portfolio were variable rate loans and 60.6% were fixed rate loans. Our short-term loans are typically priced at prime plus a margin, and our long-term loans are typically priced based on a U.S. Treasury index for comparable maturities, plus a margin. In 23 Table of Contents addition, approximately 75.4% of our fixed-rate loans receivable were short-term and approximately 24.6% were long-term, and 30.0% of our deposits were demand, money market and savings accounts and 70.0% were CDs. The composition of our rate sensitive assets or liabilities is subject to change and could result in a more unbalanced position that would cause market rate changes to have a greater impact on our earnings. We face strong competition from banks and other financial services providers that offer banking services, which may limit our ability to attract and retain banking clients. Competition in the banking industry generally, and in our geographic market specifically, is intense. Competitors include banks, as well as other financial services providers, such as savings and loan institutions, consumer finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include several larger national and regional financial institutions whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs, offer a wider array of banking services and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of a broader customer base than us. Larger competitors may also be able to offer better lending and deposit rates to customers, and could increase their competition as we become a public company and our growth becomes more visible. Moreover, larger competitors may not be as vulnerable as us to downturns in the local economy and real estate market since they have a broader geographic area and their loan portfolio is diversified. We also compete against community banks that have strong local ties. These smaller institutions are likely to cater to the same small- and medium-sized businesses that we target. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to grow or maintain our loan and deposit portfolios and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be adversely affected. Ultimately, we may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If we need additional capital in the future, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to maintain our capital levels or take advantage of growth opportunities. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. The unexpected loss of key officers would materially and adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy, and diminish our future prospects. The loss of the services of our interim chief executive officer and chief financial officer, Mark D. Freeman or that of other key executives could materially and adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business plan and, as a result, our future prospects. In light of the relatively small pool of persons involved in the banking industry in western Washington, we could have difficulty replacing any of our senior management team or senior officers with equally competent persons who also are familiar with our market area. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. Approximately 91.5% of our outstanding loan portfolio at December 31, 2007 was secured by real estate. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third-parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third-parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Our future earnings will be significantly affected by the legal and regulatory actions taken against us, as well as those legal actions that we have and may pursue. The Company and Westsound Bank have been sued or named in the securities class action lawsuits identified in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K, which, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Further, Westsound Bank is also involved in the regulatory, collection and potential foreclosure actions and proceedings described in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K. Because we are unable to predict the impact or resolution of these outstanding litigation and regulatory matters or to reasonably estimate the potential loss, if any, and no reserves have yet been established therefor. In this regard, we may determine in the future that it is necessary to establish such reserves and, if so established, such reserves could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Accordingly, our ability to successfully defend against claims asserted against us in various lawsuits arising out of the circumstances surrounding the loans, or any regulatory action taken against us, as well as any unanticipated litigation, regulatory, or other judicial proceedings may have a substantial impact on the profitability of the Company. Our future liquidity depends in part on our ability to attract and retain deposits, which could be adversely affected by adverse publicity in our market area related to the legal and regulatory actions in which we are involved. Our liquidity could be adversely affected by unexpected deposit outflows, excessive interest rates by competitors, adverse publicity relating to regulatory and legal actions in which we are involved and similar matters. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity.” We may be unable to, or choose not to, pay dividends on our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends depends on the following factors, among others: • we may not have sufficient earnings since our primary source of income, the payment of dividends to us by our subsidiary, Westsound Bank, is subject to federal and state laws that limit the ability of the Bank to pay dividends; • Federal Reserve Board policy requires bank holding companies to pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition; • we are also restricted from paying dividends on our common stock if we have deferred payments of the interest on, or an event of default has occurred with respect to, our junior subordinated debentures; and • our board of directors may determine that, even though funds are available for dividend payments, retaining the funds for internal uses, such as expansion of our operations, is a better strategy. We have not paid, and currently have no plans to pay, cash dividends to our shareholders, and the FDIC order prohibits us from doing so. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Recent Developments.” We face a variety of threats from technology based frauds and scams. Financial institutions are a prime target of criminal activities through various channels of information technology. We attempt to mitigate risk from such activities through policies, procedures, and preventative and defensive measures. In addition, we maintain insurance coverage designed to provide a level of financial protection to our business. However, risks posed by business interruption, fraud losses, business recovery expenses, and other potential losses or expenses that we may incur from a significant event are not readily predictable and, therefore, could have an impact on our results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and the failure of these systems could adversely affect our business. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. We outsource our major systems including our electronics funds transfer, or EFT, credit card and transaction processing and our online Internet bill payment and banking services. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal loans, provide customer service, facilitate collections and share data across our organization. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans and provide customer service or compromise our ability to collect loan payments in a timely manner. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved SEC staff comments. 