ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We depend on our ability to continue to obtain federal government dredging contracts, and are therefore greatly impacted by the amount of government funding for dredging projects. A reduction in government funding for dredging contracts can materially reduce our revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from federal government dredging contracts. Revenues related to contracts with federal agencies or companies operating under contracts with federal agencies and its percentage as a total of dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Federal government dredging revenue (in US$1,000) $ 285,183 $ 186,694 $ 156,348 Percent of dredging revenue from federal government 59 % 42 % 41 % Therefore, a reduction in government funding for dredging contracts can materially reduce our revenues and profits. If we are unable, in the future, to obtain bonding or letters of credit for our dredging contracts, our ability to obtain future dredging contracts will be limited, thereby adversely affecting our business. We, like all dredging service providers, are generally required to post bonds in connection with our domestic dredging contracts or letters of credit with our foreign dredging contracts to ensure job completion if we fail to finish a project. We have entered into a bonding agreement with Travelers pursuant to which Travelers acts as surety, issues bid bonds, performance bonds and payment bonds, and obligates itself upon other contracts of guaranty required by us in the day-to-day operations of our dredging business. However, Travelers is not obligated under the bonding agreement to issue future bonds for us. With respect to our foreign dredging business, we generally obtain letters of credit under our senior credit facility and a separate facility which is supported under Ex-Im's Working Capital Guarantee Program. However, the amount of letters of credit under these facilities is limited. In addition, access to the senior credit facility and the Ex-Im facility may be limited by failure to meet certain financial requirements or other defined requirements. If we were unable to obtain bonds or letters of credit, our ability to take on future work would be severely limited. Our business is subject to significant operating risks and hazards that could result in damage or destruction to persons or property, which could result in losses or liabilities to us. The dredging and demolition businesses are generally subject to a number of risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, encountering unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins below water levels, collisions, disruption of transportation services and flooding. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, dredges, transportation vessels, other maritime structures and buildings, and could also result in personal injury, environmental damage, performance delays, monetary losses or legal liability to third parties. We are subject to risks related to our international operations. Revenue from foreign contracts and its percentage to total dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Foreign revenue (in US $1000) $ 172,345 $ 140,468 $ 86,039 Percent of dredging revenue from foreign countries 36 % 32 % 23 % International operations subject us to additional potential risks, including: •uncertainties concerning import and export license requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; 15 Table of Contents •fluctuations in the price of oil, the primary export in the Middle East; •restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; •changes in foreign laws, policies and regulatory requirements; •difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; •taxation issues; •greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; •compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •difficulty in enforcing our contractual rights; •currency fluctuations; and •political, cultural and economic uncertainties, including acts of terrorism. Since 2005, we have committed more resources to international operations which has increased our exposure to these risks. The work currently performed internationally is primarily with one customer. Revenue from contracts with the government of Bahrain and entities with which it does business and its percentage to total foreign dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Bahrain government dredging revenue (in US$1,000) $ 161,254 $ 106,119 $ 78,183 Percent of foreign dredging revenue from the Bahrain government 94 % 76 % 91 % Revenue from foreign projects over the last three years has been concentrated in Bahrain and primarily with the government of Bahrain. The recent decline in oil prices and contraction in the Middle East real estate market has begun to slow that region's robust economic growth. Recently, we were asked by the customer to enter into discussions to restructure the second phase of the Diyar land reclamation project to allow them flexibility on the timing of project funding. If the government of Bahrain were to change its expansion strategy or diversify its use of dredging vendors, our revenues could decline significantly. The amount of our estimated backlog is subject to change and not necessarily indicative of future revenues. Our dredging contract backlog represents our estimate of the revenues that we will realize under contracts remaining to be performed based upon estimates relating to, among other things, the time required to mobilize the necessary assets to and from the project site, as well as the amount and type of material and the time it takes for that material to be dredged. However, these estimates are necessarily subject to fluctuations based upon the amount and type of material that actually must be dredged. Because of these factors, as well as factors affecting the time required to complete each job, backlog is not necessarily indicative of future revenues or profitability. In addition, a significant amount of our dredging backlog relates to government contracts, which can be canceled at any time without penalty, subject to our right, in some cases, to recover our actual committed costs and profit on work performed up to the date of cancellation. 16 Table of Contents Below is our dredging backlog from federal government contracts as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and the percentage of those contracts to total backlog as of the same period. Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Federal government dredging backlog (in US$1,000) $ 180,002 $ 212,313 $ 75,315 Percent of dredging backlog from federal government 43 % 66 % 21 % Our profitability is subject to inherent risks because of the fixed-price nature of most of our contracts. Substantially all of our contracts with our customers are fixed-price contracts. Under a fixed-price contract, the customer agrees to pay a specified price for our performance. Fixed-price contracts carry inherent risks, including risks of losses from underestimating costs, operational difficulties and other changes that may occur over the contract period. One of the most significant factors affecting the profitability of a dredging project is the weather at the project site. Inclement or hazardous weather conditions that exceed our project estimates can result in delays that cause additional contract expenses. Due to these factors, it is possible that we will not be able to perform our obligations under fixed-price contracts without incurring additional expenses. If we were to significantly underestimate the costs on one or more significant contracts, the resulting losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Our business could suffer in the event of a work stoppage by our unionized labor force. We are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements in the U.S. that govern our relationships with our unionized hourly workforce. However, four primary agreements apply to approximately 84% of such employees. The inability to successfully renegotiate contracts with these unions as they expire, any future strikes, employee slowdowns or similar actions by one or more unions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Our business would be adversely affected if we failed to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade, or if those provisions were modified or repealed. We are subject to the Jones Act and other federal laws that restrict dredging in U.S. waters and maritime transportation between points in the United States to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the United States, at least 75% owned and operated by U.S. citizens and manned by U.S. crews. Compliance with these laws increases our operating costs in comparison to non-U.S. dredging operations. We are responsible for monitoring the ownership of our common stock to ensure our compliance with these laws. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the U.S. market, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. dredging rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. In the past, interest groups have lobbied Congress to modify or repeal the Jones Act to facilitate foreign flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. flag vessels under the Jones Act. We believe that continued efforts may be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act laws currently benefiting U.S. flag vessels. If these efforts are successful, it could result in significantly increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. 17 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which makes us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding long-term indebtedness on our senior debt and senior subordinated notes of $216.5 million. This amount of debt is substantial and our debt could: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; or •increase our vulnerability to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; and limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel and may also increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of our older vessels will increase. The average age of our more significant vessels as of December 31, 2008, by equipment type, is as follows: Type of Equipment Quantity Average Age in Years Hydraulic Dredges 11 41 Hopper Dredges 10 27 Mechanical Dredges 5 33 Unloaders 2 24 Drillboats 2 18 Material and Other Barges 87 29 Total 117 31 Remaining economic life has not been presented because it is not reasonably quantifiable because, to the extent that market conditions warrant the expenditures, we can prolong the vessels' lives indefinitely. We operate in an industry where a significant portion of competitors' equipment is of a similar age. It is common in the dredging industry to make maintenance and capital expenditures in order to extend the economic life of equipment. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make additional expenditures. For example, if the U.S. Coast Guard enacts new standards, we may be required to make significant expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment. In order to satisfy any such requirement, we may need to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profit. We recognize contract revenue using the percentage-of-completion method. The majority of our work is performed on a fixed-price basis. Contract revenue is accrued based on engineering estimates for the physical 18 Table of Contents percent complete for dredging and estimates of remaining costs to complete for demolition. We follow the guidance of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, referred to in this annual report as "AICPA" Statement of Position No. 81-1, Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts, for accounting policies relating to our use of the percentage-of-completion method, estimating costs, revenue recognition, combining and segmenting contracts and change order/claim recognition. Percentage-of-completion accounting relies on the use of significant estimates in the process of determining income earned. The cumulative impact of revisions to estimates is reflected in the period in which these changes become known. Due to the various estimates inherent in our contract accounting, actual results could differ from those estimates, which may result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profit. Our employees are covered by federal laws that may provide seagoing employees remedies for job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. All of our seagoing employees are covered by provisions of the Jones Act and general maritime law. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers' compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal or state courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers' compensation statutes, we have greater exposure for claims made by these employees as compared to employers whose employees are not covered by these provisions. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all. We maintain various insurance policies, including, hull and machinery, general liability and personal injury. We partially self-insure risks covered by our policies. We are not required to, and do not, specifically set aside funds for the self-insured portion of claims. At any given time, we are subject to multiple personal injury claims and we maintain substantial loss accruals for these claims. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. We may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain such insurance coverage at acceptable rates or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. A portion of our self-insurance for personal injury of its maritime workforce is affected through our membership in The West of England Ship Owners Mutual Insurance Association (Luxembourg) referred to in this annual report as "West of England", an international protection and indemnity club that provides its members with liability insurance and ancillary cover. Under West of England's rules, its members for any policy year are required to pay certain amounts (referred to as "calls") to West of England based on its estimates of, among other things, requirements in respect of claims, reinsurance premiums and expenses for such policy year. For each policy year, West of England assesses members "advance calls" which constitute the members' basic rate of contributions. West of England may also assess its members "additional calls" for any open policy year in order to provide West of England with the amount of funds needed to satisfy its liquidity needs for the applicable policy year. Accordingly, we have exposure to West of England's investment volatility and claims experience. Environmental regulations could force us to incur significant capital and operational costs. Our operations and facilities are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to, among other things: dredging operations; the disposal of dredged material; protection of wetlands; storm water and waste water discharges; demolition activities; asbestos removal; transportation and disposal of other hazardous substances and materials; and air emissions. We are also subject to laws designed to protect certain marine species and habitats. Compliance with these statutes and regulations can delay performance of particular projects and increase related project costs. These delays and increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. 19 Table of Contents Our projects may involve demolition, excavation, transportation, management and disposal of hazardous waste and other hazardous substances and materials. Various laws strictly regulate the removal, treatment and transportation of hazardous waste and other hazardous substances and materials and impose liability for human health effects and environmental contamination caused by these materials. Our demolition business, for example, requires us to transport and dispose of hazardous substances and materials, such as asbestos. Services rendered in connection with hazardous substance and material removal and site development may involve professional judgments by licensed experts about the nature of soil conditions and other physical conditions, including the extent to which hazardous substances and materials are present, and about the probable effect of procedures to mitigate problems or otherwise affect those conditions. If the judgments and the recommendations based upon those judgments are incorrect, we may be liable for resulting damages that our customers incur, which may be material. The failure of certain contractual protections, including any indemnification from our customers or subcontractors, to protect us from incurring such liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Our demolition business (NASDI) depends on key customer relationships and our reputation in the Boston construction market, both of which have been developed and maintained by one individual. Loss of any of these elements would materially reduce our demolition revenues and profits. Demolition contracts are entered into on a project by project basis, so NASDI does not have continuing contractual commitments with its demolition customers beyond the terms of the current contract. We benefit from key relationships with certain general and construction contractors in the Boston market. We also benefit from our reputation in the Boston market developed over years of successfully performing on projects. Both of these aspects of the business were developed and are maintained by the president of NASDI's parent company. The inability to maintain relationships with these customers or obtain new customers based on NASDI's reputation would reduce the revenue and profitability from demolition contracts. The inability of NASDI to retain this individual would have a material adverse affect on NASDI's current customer relationships and reputation. If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, our revenue could suffer. Our contracts with federal, state and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations and other contract provisions. Certain violations of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and fines, and suspension from future government contracting. If we are suspended from government work for any reason, we could suffer a material reduction in revenue and cash flows. In addition, we may be subject to litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts ("qui tam"), which could include claims for up to treble damages. Qui tam actions are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information in the complaint are the complainant, the U.S. government, and the court. Therefore, it is possible that qui tam actions have been filed against us and that we are not aware of such actions or have been ordered by the court not to discuss them until the seal is lifted. Thus, it is possible that we are subject to liability exposure under the False Claims Act based on qui tam actions. Our common stock is subject to restrictions on foreign ownership. We are subject to government regulations pursuant to the Dredging Act, the Jones Act, the Shipping Act and the Vessel Documentation Act. These statutes require vessels engaged in the transport of merchandise or passengers or dredging in the navigable waters of the U.S. to be owned and controlled by U.S. citizens. The U.S. citizenship ownership and control standards require the vessel-owning entity to be at least 75% U.S.-citizen owned. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions limiting non-citizenship ownership of our capital stock. If our board of directors determines that persons who are not citizens of the U.S. own more than 22.5% of our outstanding capital stock or more than 22.5% of our voting power, we may redeem such stock. The required redemption price could be materially different from the current price of the common stock or the price at which the non-citizen acquired the common stock. If a non-citizen purchases the common stock, there can be 20 Table of Contents no assurance that he will not be required to divest the shares and such divestiture could result in a material loss. Such restrictions and redemption rights may make our equity securities less attractive to potential investors, which may result in our common stock having a lower market price than it might have in the absence of such restrictions and redemption rights. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for holders to resell our common stock when they want or at prices that they find attractive. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: •changes in market conditions; •quarterly variations in our operating results; •our operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; •changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; •announcements of strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; •the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; •future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; •changes in the economy and the financial markets; •departures of key personnel; •changes in governmental regulations; and •geopolitical conditions, such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. In addition, in recent years, global stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons often unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Our stockholders may not receive dividends because of restrictions in our debt agreements, Delaware law and state regulatory requirements. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by the agreements governing our debt, including our senior credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes, as well as Delaware law and state regulatory requirements. In addition, we and our subsidiaries are permitted under the terms of our debt agreements to incur additional indebtedness that may restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends. Under Delaware law, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of our surplus, as calculated in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law, or, if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. To the extent we do not have adequate surplus or net profits, we will be prohibited from paying dividends. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly, which could negatively impact our stock price. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future. You should not rely on the results of any past quarter or quarters as an indication of future performance in our 21 Table of Contents business operations or stock price. Our operating results could vary greatly from quarter to quarter due to factors such as: •inclement or hazardous weather conditions that may result in substantial delays in dredging and additional contract expenses; •unplanned equipment downtime; •environmental restrictions requiring that certain projects be performed in winter months to protect wildlife habitats; and •equipment mobilization to and from projects. If our results of operations from quarter to quarter fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could suffer or be negatively impacted. Future issuances of our common stock will dilute the ownership interests of stockholders and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could materially and adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have limited the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity are cash flow from our operations and borrowings under our senior credit facility. In the event these resources do not satisfy our liquidity needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. In late 2008, Lehman Brothers, a 6.5% participant in our credit facility, filed for bankruptcy and stopped funding its share of our revolver borrowings. As Lehman Brothers is a defaulting lender, we are no longer able to draw upon their pro-rata portion of the revolver commitment. As of December 31, 2008, we have drawn $2.7 million of the $10.0 million applicable to Lehman Brothers. As such, the remaining $7.3 million has not been included in the availability of the credit facility. It is uncertain whether a new lender will purchase Lehman Brothers' interest in our senior credit facility and fund the shortfall. In addition, there can be no assurance that our other lenders will continue to fund our senior credit facility. If our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during the third and fourth quarter of 2008. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and a global recession. Domestic and international equity markets have been experiencing 22 Table of Contents heightened volatility and turmoil. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on our business. In the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. There can be no assurance that actions taken by the U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, numerous regulatory and governmental actions have been proposed. The Federal Reserve has taken action through reduced federal funds rates and the expansion of acceptable collateral for its loans to provide additional liquidity. In October 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, referred to in this annual report as the "EESA," was signed into law. The EESA provides the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury with the authority to establish a Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. Additionally, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, referred to in this annual report as the "ARRA," was signed into law in February 2009. The ARRA is intended to provide a stimulus to the U.S. economy and includes federal tax cuts, expansion of unemployment benefits and other social welfare provisions, and domestic spending in education, health care and infrastructure, including marine infrastructure and dredging. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on our business or the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility, or that the EESA, the ARRA, or any monetary or fiscal actions of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board will have a stabilizing effect on the economy or a beneficial impact on economic growth. It is not possible to predict whether or when such actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations or financial condition or the trading price of our common stock. The current weakness in the economic environment and other factors could lead to our goodwill and other intangible assets becoming impaired, which may require us to take significant non-cash charges against earnings. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets have been impaired. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets as a result of such analysis would result in a non-cash charge against earnings, which charge could materially adversely affect our reported net income and our stock price. Due to the continuing economic uncertainty and market and credit crisis, we considered whether there were any indicators that our goodwill was impaired. We concluded that no indicators of impairment were present and therefore an additional impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2008 was not required. Our conclusion was based on our review of our market capitalization as of December 31, 2008. While we determined that goodwill did not need to be tested, a significant and sustained decline in the our future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the economic environment, slower growth rates or if our stock price falls below our net book value per share for a sustained period could result in the need to perform additional impairment analysis in future periods. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets is necessary, then we would be required to record a non-cash charge against earnings, which, in turn, could have a material adverse affect on our reported net income and the book value of our stockholders' equity. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates." Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 