Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment in our common stock, you should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, including our financial statements and the notes thereto and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The risks described below are those that we believe are the material risks that we face. Any of the risk factors described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose a part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred annual net losses since our inception, and we may continue to incur annual net losses in the future. Our annual net loss for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $31.4 million, $31.7 million and $94.1 million, respectively. Our accumulated deficit from inception through December 31, 2010, was $215.9 million. Initially, our net losses were driven principally by start-up costs and the costs of developing our technology. More recently, our net losses have been driven principally by our energy efficiency business, marketing, operating and depreciation expenses as well as impairment charges. To grow our revenues and customer base, we plan to continue emphasizing the expansion and development of our capacity programs, which will include increased marketing and operating expenses. In the short-term, our success in operating our capacity contracts will have a negative effect on earnings because of the consumer acquisition costs we incur during the installation phase of the contract. These increased costs may cause us to incur net losses in the foreseeable future, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to grow our revenues and expand our client base to become profitable. Furthermore, these expenses are not the only factors that may contribute to our net losses. For example, interest expense on our currently outstanding debt and any debt we incur in the future will contribute to our net losses. As a result, even if we significantly reduce our marketing or operating expenses, we may continue to incur net losses in the future. We may not receive the payments anticipated by our long-term contracts and recognize revenues or the anticipated margins from our backlog or expected business, and comparisons of period-to-period estimates are not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of actual payments. Payments from long-term contracts represent our estimate of the total payments that our contracts allow us to receive over the course of the contract term. Our estimated payments from these long-term contracts are based on a number of assumptions. The expectations regarding our annual and multi-year contracts include assumptions relating to purchase orders received, contractual minimum order volumes and purchase orders that we expect to receive under a contract if it is extended based on amounts and timing of historical purchases. We also assume that we will be able to meet our obligations under these contracts on a timely basis. The expectations regarding the build-out of our capacity contracts are based on our experience to date in building out the load management systems as well as future expectations for continuing to enroll participants in each contract’s service territory. In some instances, we may not build out to our contracted capacity due to enrollment rates varying from our expectations. We have also included assumptions for how we believe the programs will perform during the measurement and verification tests. If we are not able to meet this build-out schedule, we have higher than expected withdrawal by consumers from our programs or if the measurement and verification results are lower than expected, we may not be able to receive the full amount of estimated payments from long-term contracts. While we have historically recorded a $0.3 million penalty per megawatt in liquidated damages for each megawatt that we believed we would not fulfill for our energy efficiency contracts, we have not reduced our anticipated payments from long-term contracts for any penalties. As of December 31, 2010, we anticipated a potential payment of $0.3 million in liquidated damages for our energy efficiency contracts based on our build-out rate for the 2010 and 2011 program years. We have also assumed that no contracts will be terminated for convenience or other reasons by our customers and that the rate of replacement of participant terminations under our capacity contracts will remain consistent with our historical average. Changes in our estimates or any of these assumptions, the number of load control devices installed, changes in our measurement and verification test results and payments, contracts being rescheduled, cancelled or renewed, disputes as to actual capacity provided, or new contracts being signed before existing contracts are completed, and other factors, may result in actual payments from long-term contracts being significantly lower than estimated payments from long-term contracts. A comparison of estimated payments from long-term contracts from period to period is not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of actual payments. 10 Index to Form 10-K Our backlog represents our estimate of revenues from commitments, including purchase orders and long-term contracts, that we expect to recognize over the course of the next 12 months. The inaccuracy of any of our estimates and other factors may result in actual results being significantly lower than estimated under our reported backlog. Material delays, market conditions, cancellations or payment defaults could materially affect our financial condition, results of operation and cash flow. Accordingly, a comparison of backlog from period to period is not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of actual revenues. As of December 31, 2010, we had contractual backlog of $119 million through December 31, 2011. We operate in highly competitive markets; if we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share, revenues and profit. We face strong competition from traditional intelligent energy management and clean energy providers, both larger and smaller than us, from advanced metering infrastructure equipment and from energy service providers. In addition, we may face competition from large internet and/or software based companies. Advanced metering infrastructure systems generally include advanced meter reading with a demand response component, including a communications infrastructure. Energy service providers typically provide expertise to utilities and end-use consumers relating to energy audits, demand reduction or energy efficiency measures. We also compete against traditional supply-side resources such as natural gas-fired power plants and independent power producers. In addition, some providers of advanced meter reading products may add demand response products or energy services to their existing business, and other such providers may elect to add similar offerings in the future. Further, energy service providers may add their own demand response solutions, which could decrease our base of potential customers and could decrease our revenues and profitability. Certain energy service and advanced metering infrastructure providers are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are and these providers have the ability to combine (1) advanced meter reading or commodity sales and (2) demand response products into an integrated offering to a large existing customer base. Because many of our target customers already purchase either advanced meter reading, energy efficiency products or services, demand response products or services, or commodities from one or more of our competitors, our success depends on our ability to attract target customers away from their existing providers or to partner with one or more of these entities to distribute our products. In addition, the target market for our capacity programs has been composed largely of “early adopters,” or customers who have sought out new technologies and services. Because the number of early adopters is limited, our continued growth will depend on our success in marketing and selling our capacity programs to mainstream customers in our target markets. Larger competitors could focus their substantial financial resources to develop a competing business model that may be more attractive to potential customers than what we offer. Competitors who also provide advanced metering infrastructure or energy services may offer such services at prices below cost or even for free in order to improve their competitive positions. In addition, because of the other services that our competitors provide, they may choose to offer intelligent energy management services as part of a bundle that includes other products, such as residential advanced meter reading and automated invoicing, which we do not offer. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, cause us to lower our prices in order to compete and reduce our market share and revenues. Some of our strategic alliances are not exclusive, and accordingly, the companies with whom we have strategic alliances may in the future elect to compete with us by developing and selling competing products and services. In addition, these companies have similar, and often more established, relationships with our customers, and may recommend other products and services to their customers instead of our products and services. The significant competition in our industry has resulted in increasingly aggressive pricing, and we anticipate that prices may continue to decrease. We believe that in some instances our prices are currently higher than those of our competitors for similar solutions. Users of our solutions may switch to another clean energy provider based on price, particularly if they perceive the quality of our competitors’ products to be equal to or better than that of our products. Continued price decreases by our competitors could result in a loss of customers or a decrease in the growth of our business, or it may require us to lower our prices to remain competitive, which would result in reduced revenues and lower profit margins and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and delay or prevent our future profitability. 11 Index to Form 10-K Failure to provide quality products and services, including third party suppliers manufacturing quality products and third-party installers’ properly installing our products, could cause malfunctions of our products, potential recalls or replacements or delays in the delivery of our products or services, which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and negatively impact our revenues and growth. Our success depends on our ability to provide quality products and reliable services in a timely manner, which in part depends on the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned, operated and/or manufactured by third parties upon which we depend. For example, our reliance on third parties includes: · utilizing components that they manufacture in our products; · utilizing products that they manufacture for our various capacity programs; · outsourcing cellular and paging wireless communications that are used to execute instructions to our devices under our VPC programs and clients in open market programs; · outsourcing certain installation, maintenance, data collection and call center operations to third-party providers; and · buying capacity from third parties who have contracted with electricity consumers to participate in our VPC programs. Because we are wholly dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of certain products, the event of a significant interruption in the manufacturing or delivery of our products by these vendors or in defects from the manufacturers, could result in our being required to expend considerable time, effort and expense to establish alternate production lines at other facilities and our operations could be materially disrupted, which could cause us to not meet production deadlines and lose customers. In addition, our contracts often provide that we install products in the end-users’ facilities or premises using Comverge employees or third party installers. To the extent such installations are faulty or inadequate, considerable time, effort and expense may be incurred to remedy the situation and restore customer satisfaction. Any delays, malfunctions, inefficiencies or interruptions in these products, services or operations could adversely affect the reliability or operation of our products or services, which could cause us to experience difficulty retaining current customers and attracting new customers. In addition, our brand, reputation and growth could be negatively impacted. For example, in August, 2010, we were notified by the supplier of our thermostats, White-Rodgers, that White-Rodgers had filed with the Consumer Product Safety Commission, or the CPSC, to address a product issue with the thermostats that White-Rodgers had shipped to Comverge. White-Rodgers reported to the CPSC that it was aware of incidents of battery leakage in the model of thermostat sold to Comverge, in which battery leakage led to an overheating of the device. We are not aware of any reports of personal injury associated with these incidents, but are aware of claims for minor property damage. White-Rodgers informed us that in the event of battery leakage, electrolyte can contact the printed circuit board, which may result in the circuit board overheating. White-Rodgers has not conceded that the thermostats contain a defect or pose a substantial product hazard, but has nevertheless voluntarily proposed a corrective action plan that was approved by the CPSC in January 2011 to address thermostats in inventory and thermostats installed in the field. White-Rodgers has stated that it will cover reasonable costs associated with implementing the corrective action. Comverge is not aware of any information suggesting that Comverge’s communication module in these thermostats is related to the reported incidents. This corrective action by White-Rodgers could impact our current and future utility residential demand response business, including but not limited to continued business and installations in 2011. In relation to the White-Rodgers thermostat issue, Comverge was sued in the (i) Western District of Kentucky where Louisville Gas and Electric Company and Kentucky Utilities Company, collectively the Plaintiffs, filed a breach of warranty lawsuit against Comverge relating to certain White-Rodgers' brand thermostats and (ii) Eastern District of Kentucky where East Kentucky Power Cooperative filed similar claims against Comverge relating to certain White-Rodgers’ brand thermostats. For further information on lawsuits relating to the thermostat issue, see “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” contained in the Annual Report on Form 10-K. We rely on certain components and products from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. We rely on third party suppliers to manufacture and supply certain products for our various capacity programs. In addition, some of the components necessary for our products are currently provided to us by a single supplier, including the thermostats used in our utility residential demand response business, and we generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. Our reliance on these third parties involves a number of risks, including, among other things, the risk that: 12 Index to Form 10-K · we may not be able to control the quality and cost of these products or respond to unanticipated changes and increases in demand; · we may lose access to critical services and components, resulting in an interruption in the delivery of products or services to our customers; and · we may not be able to find new or alternative components for our use or reconfigure our products in a timely manner if the components necessary for our products become unavailable. If any of these risks materialize, it could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect the reliability or operation of our products or services. Lead times for materials and components ordered by us vary and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for a component at a given time. If these manufacturers or suppliers stop providing us with the components or services necessary for the operation of our business, we may not be able to identify alternate sources in a timely fashion. Any transition to alternate manufacturers or suppliers would likely result in increased expenses and operational delays, and we may not be able to enter into agreements with new manufacturers or suppliers in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. Any disruptions in product flow may harm our ability to generate revenue, lead to customer dissatisfaction, damage our reputation and result in additional costs. We depend on the electric utility industry and associated power pool markets for revenues, and as a result, our operating results have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant variability due to volatility in electric utility capital spending or the open market programs, and other factors affecting the electric utility industry. We derive substantially all of our revenues from the sale of solutions, products and services, directly or indirectly, to the electric utility industry and open market programs. In relation to our electric utility customers, purchases of our solutions, products or services by electric utilities may be deferred or cancelled as a result of many factors, including consolidation among electric utilities, changing governmental or grid operator regulations, weather conditions, rising interest rates, reduced electric utility capital spending and general economic downturns. In addition, a significant amount of revenue is dependent on long-term relationships with our utility customers, which are not always supported by long-term contracts. This revenue is particularly susceptible to variability based on changes in the spending patterns of our utility customers. The open market programs in which we participate could be materially altered in ways that negatively affect our ability to participate and, in turn, decrease revenues. For example, these markets typically utilize short-term contracts and often have price volatility. Prices in these markets typically fall whenever capacity providers place excessive amounts of capacity for auction in these markets. If prices decline below the point at which customers who typically participate in these programs recognize a benefit from participating or if they decide to participate with another provider, we would no longer be able to enroll these customers, which could result in us recognizing lower than expected revenues. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant variability in our revenues, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of these factors. Pronounced variability in the open markets or an extended period of reduction in spending by electric utilities could negatively impact our business and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast our future sales, which could lead to increased spending by us that is not matched with equivalent or better revenues. We could be required to make substantial refunds or pay damages to our customers if the actual amount of electric capacity we provide under our capacity programs is materially less than estimated or required under the applicable agreements. We typically operate our capacity programs through long-term, fixed price contracts with our utility customers. Under our base load contracts, our utility customers make periodic payments based on verified load reduction after inspecting and confirming the capacity reduced through energy efficiency measures. While the base load is able to be permanently reduced once the energy efficiency devices are installed and verified, the utility often retains the right to conduct follow up inspections for subsequent years. If the energy consumer removes the installed devices, shuts down operations or vacates the physical premises, there is the potential that any subsequent inspection by our utility customer would result in a lower amount of base load reduced capacity than originally verified, which may consequently obligate us to pay a penalty. In addition, our base load contracts require building out a specified amount of capacity (megawatts) at pre-determined dates throughout the contract life. Due to our potential participants’ limited capital spending and increased competition in the marketplace, we are experiencing challenges in meeting certain contractual build-out milestones in a timely manner. If we fail to fulfill the required contracted capacity by the dates specified in our contracts, we would be obligated to pay penalties of up to $0.3 million per megawatt that we fail to obtain in 2011 and 2012. As of December 31, 2010, we have recorded potential liquidated damages for capacity fulfillment delays related to certain 2010 and 2011 contractual milestones. 13 Index to Form 10-K In the open market programs, which typically have a term of one to three years, we sell capacity that we obtain through our programs to independent system operators. The independent system operator makes periodic payments to us based on estimates of the amount of electric capacity that we expect to make available during the contract year. We refer to these payments as proxy payments and electric capacity on which proxy payments are made as estimated capacity. A contract year generally begins on June 1st and ends May 31st of the following year. We and the independent system operator analyze results of the metering data collected during the capacity events or test events to determine the capacity that was available during the actual event. Any discrepancy between our analysis of the metering data and the analysis from the independent system operator could result in lower than expected revenues or potential damages payable by us. In addition, the PJM Interconnection, or PJM, open market program has amended rules which create potential penalties if the projected megawatts do not perform. To the extent PJM does not call an event, test events will be initiated before September 30 of each year to test the potential capacity. If we do not provide the required capacity during an event or test event, we may be subject to penalties. PJM has recently eliminated the Interruptible Load for Reliability (ILR) program effective 2012. Customers that currently participate as ILR resources must be moved into other open market programs by 2012 in order to avoid loss of revenue. This change also (i) requires additional capital support for both planned and new megawatts under the three-year Base Residual Auction and (ii) has increased the potential penalties for non-compliance. As a result of the elimination of the ILR program and the changing open market programs, we may incur significantly higher penalties in the future. Under our VPC contracts, which typically have a term of five to ten years, our utility customers make periodic payments to us based on estimates of the amount of electric capacity we expect to make available to them during the contract year. We refer to these payments as proxy payments and electric capacity on which proxy payments are made as estimated capacity. During contract negotiations or the first contract year of a VPC program, estimated capacity is negotiated and established by the contract. A contract year generally begins at the end of the summer months, after a utility’s seasonal peak energy demand for electricity. We refer to this seasonal peak energy demand as the cooling season. For example, the cooling season for one of our VPC contracts runs from June 1st to September 30th and the contract year for this agreement begins on October 1st and ends on September 30th. We and our utility customers analyze results of measurement and verification tests that are performed during the cooling season of each contract year to statistically determine the capacity that was available to the utility during the cooling season. We refer to measured and verified capacity as our available capacity. Available capacity varies with the electricity demand of high-use energy equipment, such as central air conditioning compressors, at the time measurement and verification tests are conducted, which, in turn, depends on factors beyond our control such as fluctuations in temperature and humidity. Although our contracts often contain restrictions regarding the time of day and, in some cases, the day of the week the measurement and verification tests are performed, the actual time within the agreed testing period that the tests are performed is beyond our control. If the measurement and verification tests are performed during a period of generally lower electricity usage, then the capacity made available through our system could be lower than estimated capacity for the particular contract being tested. The correct operation of, and timely communication with, devices used to control equipment are also important factors that affect available capacity under our VPC contracts. Any difference between our available capacity and the estimated capacity on which proxy payments were previously made will result in either a refund payment from us to our utility customer or an additional payment to us by our customer. We refer to this process as the annual settlement. For the contract year 2010, while we are still working toward final settlement in certain programs, we estimate that we will pay $0.1 million, in the aggregate, excluding the NV Energy program which expired in January 2011, as a result of the programs’ annual settlement. For 2009 and 2008, we paid $0.6 million and $0.2 million, respectively, as a result of the annual settlement. Any refund payments that we may be required to make (1) as a result of a subsequent inspection or failure to meet initial minimum capacity under our base load contracts, (2) to the power pool under our auction contracts, or (3) pursuant to an annual settlement determination under our VPC contracts could be substantial and could adversely affect our liquidity and anticipate revenue projections. In addition, because measurement and verification test results for each VPC contract generally establishes estimated capacity on which proxy payments will be made for the following contract year, a downward adjustment in estimated capacity for a particular VPC contract would decrease the dollar amount of proxy payments for the following contract year and could significantly decrease our estimated backlog and estimated payments from long-term contracts. In addition, such adjustment could result in significant year-to-year variations in our quarterly and annual revenues. 14 Index to Form 10-K A significant portion of our revenues are generated from contracts with a small number of customers, the postponement, modification or termination of which could significantly reduce our revenues. Our revenues historically have been generated from a small number of customers. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 71%, 67% and 71% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. In 2010, two customers accounted for more than 10% of our revenues: PJM Interconnection LLC (28%) and Pepco Holdings Inc. (12%). In 2009, two customers accounted for more than 10% of our revenues: PJM Interconnection LLC (20%) and NV Energy (12%). In 2008, three customers accounted for more than 10% of our revenues: PJM Interconnection LLC (19%), Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (14%), and NV Energy (12%). Our capacity contracts are multi-year contracts that are subject to postponement, modification or termination by our utility customers. Such action by a customer with respect to one or more of our significant contracts would significantly reduce our revenues. Our failure to meet product development and commercialization milestones may result in customer dissatisfaction, cancellation of existing customer orders or our failure to successfully compete in new markets. In the past, we have not met all of our product development and commercialization milestones. For example, we were behind schedule in developing a next-generation demand response product for a major customer. This delay resulted in a deferral of sales and gross profit associated with contracted delivery schedules for our products. In addition, we are behind schedule in developing a next-generation load management product, resulting in a delay in the planned commercialization of this product. We establish milestones to monitor our progress toward developing commercially feasible products or to meet contractual delivery requirements of our customers. In meeting these milestones, we often depend on third-party contractors in the U.S. and other countries for much of our hardware manufacturing and software development. Internal delays or delays by third-party contractors could cause us to miss product development or delivery deadlines. In addition, internal development delays could result in the loss of commercially available hardware and software products, as we are unable to rely on outside vendors to provide such products when contractual rights for the supply or license of such products expire. As an example, we are required to develop certain new products with certain milestones for our Pepco Holdings, Inc. agreement, announced on January 23, 2009. In addition, we are developing and enhancing our software platform, IntelliSOURCE (formerly known as Apollo). Delays in either development schedule could negatively affect our business. We may not successfully achieve our milestones in the future, which could distract our employees, harm our relationships with our existing and potential customers, and result in cancelled orders, deferred or lost revenues and/or margin compression and our inability to successfully compete in new markets. Changes in the availability and regulation of radio spectrum or paging providers limiting paging services may cause us to lose utility customers. A significant number of our products use radio spectrum, which is subject to regulation in the United States by the Federal Communications Commission. Licenses for radio frequencies must be obtained and periodically renewed. Licenses granted to us or our customers may not be renewed on acceptable terms, if at all. The Federal Communications Commission may adopt changes to the rules for our licensed and unlicensed frequency bands that are incompatible with our business. These changes in frequency allocation may result in the termination of demand response programs by our utility customers or the replacement of our systems with ones owned by our competitors. This would erode our competitive advantage with respect to those utility customers and would force us to compete with other providers for their business. In addition, paging providers may discontinue providing paging services, which may result in no coverage or an increase in our cost in seeking alternative providers. We may be subject to damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation related to allegations that our products or services infringe on intellectual property held by others, which could result in the loss of use of the product or service. Third-party patent applications and patents may be applicable to our products. As a result, third-parties have made and may in the future make infringement and other allegations that could subject us to intellectual property litigation relating to our products and services, which litigation is time-consuming and expensive, divert attention and resources away from our daily business, impede or prevent delivery of our products and services, and require us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees and damages. In addition, parties making infringement and other claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our services and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, or at all. 15 Index to Form 10-K The expiration of our capacity contracts without obtaining a renewal or replacement capacity contract, or finding another revenue source for the capacity our operating assets can provide, could materially affect our business. Although we have entered into additional long-term contracts in different geographic regions and are regularly in discussions with our customers to extend our existing contracts or enter into new contracts with these existing customers, there can be no assurance that any of these contracts will be extended or that we will enter into new contracts on favorable terms. If these contracts are not extended or replaced, we would expect to enroll the capacity that we make available under such contracts in another demand response capacity program, although there is no assurance we would be able to do so. For example, our capacity contract amendment with NV Energy was not continued in 2011. NV Energy accounted for 4%, 12% and 12% of our total revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Regulatory or legislative rule changes made by major grid operators, state commissions, or FERC, could adversely impact our revenues. We operate in a regulated market. Changes to rules, regulations, or laws may affect our business and anticipated revenues. During 2008, PJM Interconnection LLC, or PJM, announced a rule change for economic demand response programs in the PJM open market. The rule change reduced the price we receive under our economic or voluntary demand response programs for commercial and industrial consumers. Because such programs are voluntary, the lower price and operating rule changes in 2008 made it less compelling for our commercial and industrial consumers to participate in the demand response programs. We rely on our demand response programs to generate revenue and PJM or any other major grid operator may reduce incentives to consumers or make other economic rule changes in the future that would have a negative impact on our business. Rule changes relating to the capacity market at PJM expanding the availability of demand response resources outside of the summer months have been approved by the FERC, which could take effect three years from now. These rule changes are not clearly defined, and in turn, the effects any such rule changes could have on our revenues are unknown at this time; however, such rule changes have taken effect. We face risks related to potential expansion into international markets. We may expand our addressable market by pursuing opportunities to provide intelligent energy management solutions in international markets. We have had little experience operating large programs in markets outside of the United States. Accordingly, new markets may require us to respond to new and unanticipated regulatory, marketing, sales and other challenges. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in responding to these and other challenges we may face as we enter and attempt to expand in international markets. International operations also entail a variety of other risks, including: · unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries; · currency exchange fluctuations; · longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; and · significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. International operations are also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. One or more of these factors could adversely affect any international operations and result in lower revenue than we expect and could significantly affect our profitability. If we have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. There were no material weaknesses identified by management or our independent registered public accounting firm during the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. However, there is no assurance that we will not discover material weaknesses in internal controls in the future. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue the acquisition of complementary businesses. To the extent we acquire a new business, we must integrate the accounting system for the business with our own, and we may experience challenges in our internal control over financial reporting as a result. Any such difficulty we encounter could increase the risk of a material weakness. The existence of one or more material weaknesses in any period would preclude a conclusion that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. Such conclusion would be required to be disclosed in our future Annual Reports on Form 10-K and may impact the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting. 16 Index to Form 10-K Any internal or external security breaches involving our products could harm our reputation, and even the perception of security risks, whether or not valid, could inhibit market acceptance of our products and cause us to lose customers. Our customers use our products to compile and analyze sensitive and confidential information. The occurrence or perception of security breaches in our products or services could harm our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may come into contact with sensitive consumer information or data when we perform operational, support or maintenance functions for our utility customers. A failure to handle this information properly, or a compromise of our security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations. This risk is enhanced through the distribution of our new IntelliSOURCE software system and integration work with the utilities back office, as we anticipate our system and solutions will be utilized on a larger scale. Our loan and security agreements contain financial and operating restrictions that may limit our access to credit. If we fail to comply with covenants in our loan and security agreements, we may be required to repay our indebtedness thereunder, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Our loan and security agreements contain covenants that may limit our ability to operate our business, invest, sell assets, create liens or make distributions or other payments to our investors and creditors. All of these restrictions may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. For instance, provisions in our loan and security agreements with Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB, and Partners for Growth III, L.P., or PFG, impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things, incur more debt; pay dividends and make distributions; make certain investments; redeem or repurchase capital stock; create liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; and merge or consolidate. These agreements also contain other customary covenants, including covenants which require us to meet specified financial ratios and financial tests. We may not be able to comply with these covenants in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default and cause us to be unable to borrow under our loan and security agreements with SVB and PFG. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under these agreements, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under these agreements, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. Further, an event of default under our PFG agreement contractually qualifies as an event of default under our SVB agreement. The PFG agreement also sets forth certain quarterly revenue targets. If the revenue targets are not maintained, the lender has the right, but not the obligation, to begin requiring quarterly repayments of the loan balance over the remaining term of the loan. Such payments would be front-loaded, such that 45% of the loan balance would be due over the first twelve month after the lender’s election. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all. We will require significant capital to pursue our growth strategy, but we may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. The growth of our business will depend on significant amounts of capital for marketing and product development of our intelligent energy management solutions, including intelligent hardware and software. In addition, we will consider both international expansion and strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies to grow our business, which could require significant capital and could increase our capital expenditures related to future operation of the acquired business or technology. We may not be able to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms or at all. Because of our losses, we do not fit traditional credit lending criteria, which, in particular, could make it difficult for us to obtain loans or to access the capital markets. Moreover, our loan and security agreements contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, which, if not waived, could prevent us from obtaining needed capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing and a failure to obtain additional financing when needed could adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our business. The reorganization of our business may cause disruptions in our operations, customer relationships, employee turnover, or other business failure. We have implemented organizational changes as part of our strategic initiatives to better and more efficiently manage our business. The changes may result in additional employee turnover or loss of certain customer relationships if we fail to adequately perform. Implementing these organizational changes requires significant time and resource commitments from our senior management. In the event that we are unable to effectively implement these organizational changes, we are unable to recruit, maintain the caliber of, or retain key employees as a result of these initiatives or these initiatives do not yield the anticipated benefits, our business may be adversely affected. 17 Index to Form 10-K Our ability to provide bid bonds, performance bonds or letters of credit is limited and could negatively affect our ability to bid on or enter into significant long-term agreements. We are occasionally required to provide letters of credit, bid bonds or performance bonds to secure our performance under customer contracts or open market programs. Our ability to obtain such bonds primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and reputation and external factors beyond our control, including the overall capacity of the surety market. Surety companies consider those factors in relation to the amount of our tangible net worth and other underwriting standards that may change from time to time. Events that affect surety markets generally may result in bonding becoming more difficult to obtain in the future, or being available only at a significantly greater cost. In addition, some of our customers also require collateral in the form of letters of credit to secure performance or to fund possible damages as the result of an event of default under our contracts with them. Our ability to obtain letters of credit under our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank is limited to $30.0 million in the aggregate. As of December 31, 2010, we had $18.1 million of letters of credit outstanding from the facility. If we enter into significant long-term agreements or increase our bidding in certain open market power pools and either of which require the issuance of letters of credit, our liquidity could be negatively impacted. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding or letters of credit and, as a result, to bid or enter into significant long-term agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and business prospects. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon the maintenance and protection of the intellectual property related to our capacity programs and the solutions, hardware, firmware and software that we have acquired or developed internally. Patent protection is unavailable for certain aspects of the technology that is important to our business. In addition, one or more of our pending patent applications may not be issued. To date, we have attempted to rely on copyright, trademark and trade secrecy laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our rights to this technology. However, we have not obtained confidentiality agreements from all of our customers and vendors, some of our licensing or confidentiality agreements are not in writing, and some customers are subject to laws and regulations that require them to disclose information that we would otherwise seek to keep confidential. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and expensive, as is enforcing our rights against unauthorized use. The steps that we have taken or may take may not prevent misappropriation of the technology on which we rely. In addition, effective protection may be unavailable or limited if we expand to other jurisdictions outside the United States, as the intellectual property laws of foreign countries sometimes offer less protection or have onerous filing requirements. Any litigation could be unsuccessful, cause us to incur substantial costs and divert resources away from our daily business. We may not be able to maintain quality customer care during periods of growth or in connection with the addition of new and complex products or services, which could adversely affect our ability to acquire and retain utility customers and participants in our capacity programs. In the past, during periods of growth, we have not been able to expand our customer care operations quickly enough to meet the needs of our increased customer base, and the quality of our customer care has suffered. As we add new and complex products and services or we undergo product issues with corrective actions, we will face challenges in increasing and training our customer care staff. If we are unable to hire, train and retain sufficient personnel to provide adequate customer care in a timely manner, we may experience customer dissatisfaction and increased participant terminations. The risk is enhanced through selling solution based systems, contingent upon our IntelliSOURCE software, as the software and potential integration are complex and often times outside of our control (i.e. in the instance and to the extent we are required to integrate with an AMI provider’s meter software). Electric utility industry sales cycles can be lengthy and unpredictable and require significant employee time and financial resources with no assurances that we will realize revenues. Sales cycles with our customers can generally be long and unpredictable. Our customers include electric utilities and large commercial and industrial energy consumers that generally have extended budgeting, procurement and regulatory approval processes. In addition, electric utilities tend to be risk averse and tend to follow industry trends rather than be the first to purchase new products or services, which can extend the lead time for or prevent acceptance of new products or services such as our capacity programs or advanced metering initiatives. Accordingly, our potential customers may take longer to reach a decision to purchase products. This extended sales process requires the dedication of significant time by our personnel and our use of significant financial resources, with no certainty of success or recovery of our related expenses. It is not unusual for an electric utility or commercial and industrial energy consumer to go through the entire sales process and not accept any proposal or quote. In addition, pilot test programs, which are often conducted and analyzed before a sale becomes final, generally result in operating losses to us due to the lack of scalability, start-up costs, development expenditures and other factors. If we are unable to expand the distribution of our products through strategic alliances, we may not be able to grow our business. Part of our ability to grow our business depends on our success in continuing to increase the number of customers we serve through a variety of strategic marketing alliances or channel partnerships with metering companies, communications providers, advanced meter reading providers, installation companies and other large multinational companies. Revenues from strategic alliances have not historically accounted for a significant portion of our total revenues, although we plan to increasingly rely on such alliances to grow our business in the future. We may not be able to maintain productive relationships with the companies with which we have strategic alliances, and we may not be able to establish similar relationships with additional companies on a timely and economic basis, if at all. 18 Index to Form 10-K An increased rate of terminations of residential, commercial and industrial energy consumers, or the use of more efficient products by such consumers, who are enrolled in our VPC, open market, or turnkey programs, or who would enroll in such programs, would negatively impact our business by reducing our revenues and requiring us to spend more money to maintain and grow our participant base. Our ability to provide electric capacity under our capacity contracts depends on the number of residential, commercial and industrial energy consumers who enroll and participate in our programs. The average annual rate of participant terminations for our residential VPC programs from inception through December 31, 2010 was approximately 7%. As a result, we will need to acquire new participants on an ongoing basis to maintain available capacity provided to our utility customers. In addition, to the extent existing or future participants install high efficiency air conditioning units which could minimize the effectiveness of our solution as to that participant, we may face lower measurement and verification results. If we are unable to recruit and retain participants for our capacity programs, we will face difficulties acquiring capacity to sell through such programs. Furthermore, the increased competition and the length of contracts for commercial and industrial capacity consumers may result in an increase of such consumers not re-enrolling when their contract ends or terminating their contract for a more lucrative offer, which could further restrict our ability to acquire capacity to sell into such programs. If participant termination rates increase, we will need to acquire more participants in order to maintain our revenues and more participants than estimated to grow our business. This loss of revenues resulting from participant terminations can be significant, and limiting terminations is an important factor in our ability to achieve future profitability. If we are unsuccessful in controlling participant terminations, we may be unable to acquire a sufficient number of new participants or we may incur significant costs to replace participants, which could cause our revenues to decrease, and we might not become profitable. If we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, we may not be able to manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives. Many key responsibilities of our business have been assigned to a relatively small number of individuals. Our future success depends to a considerable degree on the vision, skills, experience and effort of our senior management team, including R. Blake Young, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Michael D. Picchi, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Edward J. Myszka, our Executive Vice President of Program Delivery; Christopher Camino, our Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing and Chief Marketing Officer; Steve Moffitt, our Executive Vice President of Engineering and Operations; Arthur Vos IV, our Senior Vice President of Product Management and Alliances; Matt Smith, our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary; and Teresa Naylor, our Senior Vice President of Human Resources. We do not maintain key-person insurance on any of these individuals. Any loss or interruption of the services of any of our key employees could significantly reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations and implement our strategy. The success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to develop new products and services and increase the functionality of our current products. From 2001 through December 31, 2010, we have invested over $20.3 million in research and development costs associated with our current products. From time to time, our customers have expressed a need for increased functionality in our products and software. In response, and as part of our strategy to enhance our solutions and grow our business, we plan to continue to make substantial investments in the research and development of new technologies. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue to design and manufacture new competitive products and software, to enhance our existing products and to provide new value-added services. Product development initiatives will require continued investment, and we may experience unforeseen problems in the performance of our technologies or products, including new technologies that we develop and deploy. Furthermore, we may not achieve market acceptance of our new products, solutions and software. For example, in the past we incurred significant costs to develop a specific product for large commercial and industrial customers that has found limited market acceptance. If we are unable to develop new products and services, or if the market does not accept such products and services, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to maintain low costs for established products supplied under fixed fee contracts, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. 19 Index to Form 10-K Current market developments may adversely affect our business, results of operations and access to capital. On October 3, 2008, former President George W. Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the U.S. banking system, housing and financial markets. Over the past few years, dramatic declines in the housing market, including increasing foreclosures have resulted in concern about the stability of the financial markets generally. Many lenders and institutional investors have continued to be criticized over their reluctance to provide funding. The resulting lack of available credit and lack of confidence in the financial markets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions and our access to capital. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: · continuing foreclosures in the housing market may cause a decline in participation in our demand response programs; · our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired due to slow payment, receivership or bankruptcy of our customers; and · our ability to borrow, or our customer’s availability to borrow, from other financial institutions could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by credit rating agencies and investor expectations. We face risks if we are unable to participate in the funding benefits of the Stimulus Bill. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act of 2009, or the Stimulus Bill, in response to the financial crises affecting the U.S. economy. The Stimulus Bill provides for funding for various energy and electrical projects, including smart grid funding. While we anticipate positive benefits from the Stimulus Bill, to the extent our utility customers delay potential demand response programs to focus on other stimulus funded roll-outs or we are unable to benefit and/or our competitors benefit from this bill, our business may be adversely affected. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions successfully, which may inhibit our rate of growth, and we may not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses and acquisitions that we complete which may expose us to a number of unanticipated operational or financial risks. In addition to organic growth, we have pursued, and to the extent we continue to pursue, growth through the acquisition of companies or assets, we may enlarge our geographic markets, add experienced management and increase our product and service offerings. However, we may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable acquisition candidates or reach agreement on potential acquisitions on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Moreover, our acquisition efforts involve certain risks, including: · difficulty integrating operations and systems; · the potential for key personnel and customers of the acquired company terminating their relationships with the acquired company as a result of the acquisition; · additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning and financial reporting; · additional risks and liabilities (including for environmental-related costs) as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not discover during our due diligence; · disruption of our ongoing business or insufficient management attention to our ongoing business; and · realizing cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. The rapid growth of the clean energy sector may cause us to experience more competition for acquisition opportunities, which could result in higher valuations for acquisition candidates. As a result, we may be required to pay more for acquisitions we believe are beneficial, which could, in turn, require us to recognize additional goodwill in connection with such acquisitions. To the extent that any acquisition results in additional goodwill, it will reduce our tangible net worth, which might have an adverse effect on our credit. In addition, in the event that we issue shares of our common stock as part or all of the purchase price, an acquisition will dilute the ownership of our then-current stockholders. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, synergies or productivity comparable to those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. For example, we did not experience the anticipated revenue growth during 2010, 2009 and 2008 from our acquisitions of Enerwise and PES, which was due in part to PES not reaching its anticipated build-out and in part to the regulatory rule change in 2008 that affected Enerwise’s economic program in PJM. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness and other expenses. There can be no assurance that our acquisition strategy will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Index to Form 10-K Our business may become subject to modified or new government regulation, which may negatively impact our ability to market our products. Our products and services are not subject to the majority of existing federal and state regulations in the U.S. governing the electric utility industry. However, our products and their installation are subject to government oversight and regulation under state and local ordinances relating to communication requirements, building codes, public safety regulations pertaining to electrical connections and local and state licensing requirements. In the future, federal, state or local governmental entities or competitors may seek to change existing regulations, impose additional regulations or apply current regulations to cover our products and services. If any of these things occur, as applicable to our products or services, whether at the federal, state or local level, they may negatively impact the installation, servicing and marketing of our products and increase our costs and the price of our products and services. We are currently evaluating various state regulations regarding installation work for one of our programs. While we do not know the outcome of our evaluation or the potential for any state regulatory board to address such work, there is the potential that we could suffer a loss of significant installation revenue, if not all installation revenue, for this contract. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see “Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, and slower growth rates in our industry. Goodwill and indefinite lived assets are required to be tested for impairment at least annually. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2008, we recorded significant charges to earnings in our consolidated financial statements as a result of our determination that certain goodwill and intangible assets were impaired. See “Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 7” for discussion on the impairment charges. We will continue to evaluate our remaining goodwill and intangible assets as required under generally accepted accounting principles and those results could adversely impact our results of operations in the future. If we fail to hire and train additional personnel and improve our controls and procedures to respond to the growth of our business, the quality of our products and services could materially suffer and cause us to lose customers. Our business and operations have expanded rapidly since our inception. For example, from January 2003 through December 31, 2010, the number of our employees increased more than 700%, growing from 70 to 562. To continue expanding our customer base effectively and to meet our growth objectives for the future, we are currently working to fill multiple positions within our company. In addition, we must continue to successfully train, motivate and retain our existing and future employees. In order to manage our expanding operations, we will also need to continue to improve our management, operational and financial controls and our reporting systems and procedures. All of these measures will require significant expenditures and will demand the attention of management. If we are not able to hire, train and retain the necessary personnel, or if these operational and reporting improvements are not implemented successfully, the quality of our products and services could materially suffer as a result and cause us to lose customers. Our business may be subject to additional obligations to collect and remit sales, use or other tax and, any successful action by state, foreign or other authorities to collect additional sales, use or other tax could adversely harm our business. We file sales and/or use tax returns in certain states within the U.S. as required by law and certain client contracts for a portion of the hardware, software and services that we provide. We do not collect sales or other similar taxes in other states and many of the states do not apply sales or similar taxes to the vast majority of the services that we provide. However, one or more states could seek to impose additional sales or use tax collection and record-keeping obligations on us. Any successful action by state, foreign or other authorities to compel us to collect and remit sales or use tax, either retroactively, prospectively or both, could adversely affect our results of operations and business. 21 Index to Form 10-K Natural disasters, widespread pandemics and other factors outside of our control could disrupt our business. We must protect our business and our network infrastructure against damage from earthquake, flood, hurricane and similar events. A natural disaster or other unanticipated problem could also adversely affect our business by, among other things, harming our primary data center or other internal operations, limiting our ability to communicate with our customers, and limiting our ability to sell our IEM solutions and services. We do not insure against several natural disasters, including earthquakes. Any outbreak of a widespread communicable disease pandemic, such as the outbreak of the H1N1 influenza virus in 2009 or the SARS epidemic of 2003, could similarly impact our operations. Such impact could include, among other things, the inability for our sales and operations personnel located in affected regions to travel and conduct business freely, the impact any such disease may have on one or more of the distributors for our solutions in those regions, and increased supply chain costs. Additionally, any future health-related disruptions at our third-party contract manufacturers or other key suppliers could affect our ability to supply our customers with our solutions and services in a timely manner, which would harm our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Shares eligible for future sale may cause the market price for our common stock to decline even if our business is doing well. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital in the future through the sale of our equity securities. Under our fifth amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we are authorized to issue up to 150,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 25,329,118 shares of common stock were outstanding as of December 31, 2010. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares of our common stock, or the perception of such sales or issuances, would have on the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid any dividends on our common stock to date, and we do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to reinvest all future earnings in the development and growth of our business. In addition, our senior loan agreement prohibits us from paying dividends and future loan agreements may also prohibit the payment of dividends. Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, business opportunities, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant. To the extent we do not pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in our common stock. Our fifth amended and restated certificate of incorporation, second amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our fifth amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our second amended and restated bylaws and applicable provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our fifth amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our second amended and restated bylaws: · currently provide for a classified board of directors, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control. At our 2010 Annual Meeting, our shareholders approved a stockholder proposal that requested the board to take the necessary steps to declassify the board and to adopt the annual election of each director. As discussed in this year’s proxy statement, stockholders will be asked to approve the amendment of our certification of incorporation in order to implement the declassification of the board. However, the approval of the amendment will require an affirmative stockholder vote by at least 66 2/3% of the total number of outstanding shares to amend the our certificate of incorporation; · authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors during a takeover attempt; · prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of stock to elect some directors; · require super-majority voting to effect amendments to certain provisions of our fifth amended and restated certificate of incorporation and to effect amendments to our second amended and restated bylaws concerning the number of directors; 22 Index to Form 10-K · limit who may call special meetings; · prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; · establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a stockholders meeting; and · require that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office. In addition, Delaware law prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our common stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 