Item 1A. Risk Factors. PAETEC’s business is subject to a variety of significant risks, including the following: Deterioration in the global economy has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on PAETEC’s business. PAETEC believes that the financial and economic pressures faced by its business customers in the current environment of diminished consumer spending, corporate downsizing and tightened credit have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on billable minutes of use and on customer attrition rates, and have resulted in and may continue to result in increased customer demands for price reductions in connection with contract renewals. For the remainder of 2009, PAETEC expects economic conditions to deteriorate further, and as a result, it anticipates an increase in uncollectible accounts and bad debt expense. PAETEC relies on other carriers to provide it with critical parts of its network under a regulatory framework that may change. PAETEC must interconnect and lease from incumbent carriers special access digital T1 transmission lines and unbundled network element, or “UNE,” digital T1 transmission lines and other elements to connect substantially all of its end-user customers to its network. To obtain these lines and, accordingly, to provide voice and data services, PAETEC depends on existing laws and regulations that require incumbent local exchange carriers to lease these special access digital T1s, UNE T1s and other network elements to competitive carriers. Regulatory developments may reduce the extent to which incumbent carriers are required to lease these network facilities to PAETEC or may permit incumbent carriers to increase the prices they charge for such lines or impose unacceptable terms and conditions. Changes in law or regulation could limit or terminate PAETEC’s affordable access to the network components it needs to provide voice and data services. If PAETEC cannot continue to interconnect with and obtain key network elements and special access services from some of its primary competitors on acceptable terms, it may not be able to offer its local voice and data services on a profitable basis, if at all. PAETEC will not be able to provide its local voice and data services on a profitable basis, if at all, unless it is able to continue to interconnect with and obtain key network elements and special access service from some of PAETEC’s primary competitors on acceptable terms. To offer local voice and data services in a market, PAETEC must connect its network with the networks of the incumbent carrier in that market. This relationship is governed by interconnection agreements between the incumbent carrier and PAETEC that are based on provisions of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 obligating incumbent carriers to interconnect with competitive carriers and provide them with access to various network elements. Access to “last mile” special access digital T1 transmission lines are governed by each incumbent local exchange carrier’s special access tariffs. These tariffs can be changed and the prices for the services increased. Interconnection agreements can be terminated or expire and thereby require renegotiation and renewal. In addition, changes in law or regulation that limit or narrow any of these obligations of the incumbent carrier would require modification of interconnection agreements to reflect the changes. If PAETEC is not able to renegotiate or enter into interconnection agreements on terms that are acceptable to it, or obtain special access services on competitive terms, or if a there is a change in law or regulation that limits or narrows the obligation of the incumbent carrier to provide access to competitive carriers, PAETEC’s cost of doing business could increase and its ability to compete could be impeded. The outcome of the pending FCC rulemaking proceeding that is reviewing the framework for intercarrier compensation could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC’s operating results. Significant changes to the current rules governing intercarrier compensation could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC’s collection and payment of reciprocal compensation and access fees. Intercarrier compensation, including exchange access and reciprocal compensation, currently is the subject of several ongoing interrelated proceedings before the FCC designed to reform the way in which carriers and service 25 Table of Contents providers pay other carriers and providers for the use of their respective networks. There is no clear consensus as to when or how the rules governing intercarrier compensation will be reformed. Whether and how intercarrier compensation reform will affect PAETEC and other carriers therefore remains unclear. PAETEC’s business is subject to a variety of risks based on its dependence on regulations that continue to change. Most of the network services and carrier services that PAETEC provides are subject to regulation and may be adversely affected by regulatory developments at the federal, state and local levels. The regulations, for example, can affect the types of services PAETEC may offer, the rates PAETEC is permitted to charge for its services and for the use of its network by other carriers, the manner in which PAETEC may bill its customers and the rates PAETEC must pay others for their services and for the use of their networks. In addition, the regulations may impose specific operational or compliance requirements related to the protection of customer proprietary network information, capability to associate a physical address with a calling party’s telephone number (E-911) or cooperation with law enforcement officials engaged in lawful communication intercept or monitoring activities. All of these requirements may reduce the revenue PAETEC generates from its operating activities or increase its operating costs. Federal and state regulations also determine the level of contribution payments PAETEC must make to the federal Universal Service Fund and other federal and state telecommunications subsidy programs, as well as the terms under which it may use any rights of way necessary for the operation of its business. If PAETEC fails to comply with applicable regulations, or if the regulations change in a manner adverse to PAETEC, its business and operating results may suffer. If PAETEC is required to reduce the prices it charges for some or all of its network services, PAETEC’s profitability may be negatively affected and its ability to continue to generate positive cash flows from operations may be diminished. PAETEC may be required to reduce the prices it charges for some or all of its network services for the following reasons, which could adversely affect its profit margins and its ability to generate positive cash flows from operations: • the incumbent carriers in the markets PAETEC serves already offer a bundle of local, long distance and data services that is the same as or similar to, and in some cases more robust than, the bundle of services that PAETEC offers; • PAETEC’s current and potential customers are increasingly using VoIP, which could, for example, reduce or eliminate long distance revenues generated by those customers; • the mergers between AT&T and SBC, between MCI and Verizon, and between AT&T and BellSouth may provide these carriers with significant operating efficiencies and substantial marketing, financial and technical resources as they compete with PAETEC; • regulatory authorities generally have decreased their oversight of incumbent carriers and from time to time are asked to forbear from applying a range of regulations to incumbent carriers, which may increase the benefits these companies experience from their longstanding customer relationships and greater financial and technical resources, and may increase their ability to reduce prices for local and other network services by offsetting those reductions with revenue or profits generated by unrelated businesses, products or services; and • regulatory authorities recently have permitted incumbent carriers to exercise pricing flexibility in setting the rates they charge for some of the network services that PAETEC also provides, rather than requiring the carriers to charge set rates. Industry consolidation and realignment may increase PAETEC’s costs. Before their respective mergers, AT&T and MCI offered some network services and elements in competition with the incumbent carriers. The mergers between AT&T and SBC, between MCI and Verizon and 26 Table of Contents between AT&T and BellSouth, however, could significantly increase the cost of the high-speed circuits PAETEC must lease to connect its customers to PAETEC’s switching equipment by reducing the number of providers that offer those high-speed circuits. PAETEC also may incur increased circuit costs in portions of the Qwest region, where these large incumbents may not have a significant presence. Such a development could decrease the competitive pressure on other carriers to maintain low rates for these circuits. The expansion of operations of medium-sized incumbent carriers into markets served by PAETEC, either through merger or the sale of exchanges by an RBOC to a smaller incumbent carrier, may negatively affect PAETEC operations if the non-RBOC incumbent carrier has less sophisticated systems and more costly terms for interconnection and access to last mile facilities. If PAETEC is unable to manage its business effectively, PAETEC’s prospects for profitable operations will be harmed. To achieve and sustain operating profitability, PAETEC is required to generate revenue growth, control expenses and otherwise manage its business efficiently. This places significant demands on PAETEC’s management and other employees, its operational and financial systems, and its internal controls and procedures. If PAETEC fails to manage PAETEC’s operations effectively, PAETEC may experience higher costs of operations, a decline in service quality, the loss of customers, and other limitations that would adversely affect PAETEC’s prospects for profitable operations. If PAETEC does not compete effectively in the highly competitive market for network services, it could lose customers and revenue and may face more difficulties as it expands in existing markets and enters new markets. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive, particularly with the advent of new technologies replacing traditional public switched telecommunications networks in favor of services transmitted over the Internet. This increased level of competition could diminish PAETEC’s market share and affect PAETEC’s ability to expand PAETEC’s business. PAETEC will compete with current and potential market entrants, including: • AT&T, Qwest and Verizon which are the large, former monopoly local telephone companies and their successors; • other competitive carriers, competitive access providers, Internet service providers and stand-alone Voice over Internet protocol, or “VoIP,” providers; and • cable television companies, wireless and satellite service providers. Many of the competitors identified above have significantly greater market presence, engineering and marketing capabilities, and financial, technological and personnel resources than PAETEC. Additionally, some of these competitors are currently subject to substantially less regulation than competitive and incumbent carriers and claim to be exempt from a number of taxes and regulatory charges that PAETEC is required to pay. As a result, compared to PAETEC, the company’s competitors may be able to develop and expand their network infrastructures and services offerings more efficiently or more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily, and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services. Further, they may succeed in developing and expanding their communications and network infrastructures more quickly than PAETEC. PAETEC faces price competition in the market for network services and, as a result, may not be able to sustain operating profitability, maintain adequate market share or achieve significant revenue growth. The demand for PAETEC’s services may not exist at prices that will enable it to maintain adequate market share or achieve significant revenue growth. In response to competition from incumbent carriers, and providers 27 Table of Contents using new technologies, including VoIP, competitive carriers like PAETEC have reduced the prices they charge for their network services in recent years. Moreover, in light of the mergers between AT&T and SBC, between MCI and Verizon, and between AT&T and BellSouth, PAETEC faces price and service competition with respect to its network services from these incumbents, which are the largest incumbent carriers in the United States, as well as from other large established telephone companies that are the dominant competitors in all of PAETEC’s service areas. PAETEC expects to continue experiencing an overall increase in downward pricing pressures, particularly with respect to its network services, due to competition, volume-based pricing and other factors. PAETEC’s ability to reduce its prices may be limited by its reliance on some of its principal competitors to provide key network elements that PAETEC needs to provide network services. In addition, if regulatory authorities were to prohibit PAETEC from including specified types of additional charges on bills for network services to offset expenses that PAETEC may incur, PAETEC could be required to increase its base prices for network services above competitive levels. An inability to market and develop additional services may adversely affect PAETEC’s ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. PAETEC offers local, long distance, data, Internet, VoIP and other telecommunications services. To address the future needs of PAETEC’s customers, PAETEC will need to market and develop additional services. PAETEC may not be able to continue to provide the range of telecommunications services that PAETEC’s customers need or seek. PAETEC may lose some of its customers or be unable to attract new customers if it cannot offer these services. Changes in technology, service offerings and customer preferences could affect PAETEC’s ability to compete in the marketplace for telecommunications and information services. PAETEC faces rapid and significant changes in technology. PAETEC’s ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers will be impaired if PAETEC is unable to deliver new technologies and services that have significant customer acceptance, to adopt those new technologies and offer those new services in a timely and effective manner, and to compete successfully against other service providers that introduce the same or similar new technologies and offer substantially similar new services. The telecommunications industry has changed significantly over the past several years and is continuing to evolve rapidly. Emerging technologies and services, such as VoIP applications, broadband services and advanced wireless offerings, are altering the economic conditions under which the telecommunications and information services industry operates. New technologies also could lead to the development of new, more convenient and cost-effective services. In addition, the preferences and requirements of customers are rapidly changing. For example, telecommunications customers are increasingly using wireless forms of communication, such as handheld Internet-access devices and mobile phones. The use of wireless communications has resulted in a decline in the volume of voice traffic carried by traditional wireline telecommunications networks and likely has resulted in a decrease in the average minutes of use generated by customers of wireline communications services providers, including PAETEC. We expect this trend to continue. The development and offering of new services in response to new technologies or consumer demands may require PAETEC to increase its capital expenditures significantly. In addition, new technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may be available only to PAETEC’s competitors and not to PAETEC. PAETEC may not be able to compete effectively if it is unable to install additional network equipment or to convert its network to more advanced technology. PAETEC’s long-term business strategy may require it to convert its existing network to a network using more advanced technology. PAETEC may not have or be able to raise the significant capital that a conversion may require, or be able to complete the installation of additional network equipment and the conversion to more advanced technology in a timely manner, at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. PAETEC also may face technological problems that cannot be resolved. If PAETEC is unable successfully to install or operate new 28 Table of Contents network equipment or to convert its network to a network using more advanced technology, PAETEC may not be able to compete effectively, and PAETEC’s results of operations could be adversely affected. PAETEC may experience difficulty integrating the businesses and operations of US LEC and McLeodUSA and may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of its mergers with US LEC and McLeodUSA. PAETEC’s future success will depend in significant part on its ability to realize the cost savings, operating efficiencies and new revenue opportunities that it expects to result from the integration of PAETEC’s business with the businesses of US LEC and McLeodUSA. PAETEC’s operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected if it is unable to integrate successfully the operations of PAETEC with US LEC and McLeodUSA, fails to achieve or achieve on a timely basis such cost savings, operating efficiencies and new revenue opportunities, or incurs unforeseen costs and expenses or experiences unexpected operating difficulties that offset anticipated cost savings. In particular, the integration of the acquired businesses may involve, among other matters, integration of sales, marketing, billing, accounting, quality control, management, personnel, payroll, regulatory compliance, network infrastructure and other systems and operating hardware and software, some of which may be incompatible and therefore may need to be replaced. If PAETEC does not successfully implement its acquisition strategy, its acquisition of other businesses could harm PAETEC’s results of operations and financial condition. As part of PAETEC’s growth strategy, PAETEC seeks to supplement internal expansion through targeted acquisitions. PAETEC is subject to various risks in connection with any acquisitions or series of acquisitions, including the risks that PAETEC: • may be unable to realize anticipated cost savings or operating efficiencies, to retain skilled management, technical, sales and back office personnel of acquired companies, to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout all of its acquired companies, or to manage successfully the risks associated with entering new geographical, customer or product markets in which it has little or no experience; • may suffer adverse developments in its relationships with vendors, face brand awareness issues related to the acquired assets or customers, be forced to limit the attention it can devote to any one acquired company, and suffer disruption of its ongoing business operations as a result of its acquisition and integration activities; • may encounter resistance by customers of acquired companies to PAETEC’s marketing programs, pricing levels or services and may not successfully incorporate the services of acquired businesses into PAETEC’s package of service offerings or successfully integrate the network equipment and operating support systems of acquired businesses; and • may experience difficulties in evaluating the historical or future financial performance of the acquired companies. Even if acquired companies eventually contribute to an improvement in PAETEC’s operating results or financial condition, the acquisitions may adversely affect PAETEC’s operating results and financial condition in the short term. PAETEC’s operating results may decrease as a result of transaction-related expenses PAETEC records for the period in which it completes an acquisition. PAETEC’s operating results may be further reduced by the higher operating and administrative expenses PAETEC may incur in the periods immediately following an acquisition as PAETEC seeks to integrate the acquired business into its operations. Any significant impairment of PAETEC’s goodwill would lead to a decrease in PAETEC’s assets and a reduction in its net operating performance. At December 31, 2008, PAETEC had goodwill of approximately $300.6 million, which constituted approximately 20.1% of PAETEC’s total assets at that date. If PAETEC makes changes in its business strategy or if market or other conditions adversely affect its business operations, PAETEC may be forced to record an impairment 29 Table of Contents charge, which would lead to a decrease in the company’s assets and reduction in net operating performance. For 2008, PAETEC recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $355.0 million. PAETEC tests goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, PAETEC is required to record an impairment change for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill in the period the determination is made. The testing of goodwill of impairment requires PAETEC to make significant estimates about the future performance and cash flows of the company, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in underlying business operations, future reporting unit operating performance, existing or new product market acceptance, changes in competition, or changes in technologies. Any changes in key assumptions, or actual performance compared with those assumptions, about PAETEC’s business and its future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value of one or more reporting units, resulting in an impairment change. Adverse developments in the credit and capital markets may negatively affect PAETEC’s ability to raise additional capital. Adverse conditions in the debt security and syndicated loan markets, which have significantly reduced the availability of corporate credit, are increasingly affecting the global financial system and equity markets. PAETEC’s ability to access the debt and equity markets may be restricted at a time when it would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an adverse effect on PAETEC’s flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The disruptions in the financial markets have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on the market value of PAETEC’s common stock, which could make it more difficult or costly for the company to raise capital through an offering of its equity securities. PAETEC’s significant level of debt and interest payment obligations may limit its ability to compete and expose it to interest rate risk to the extent of its variable-rate debt. As of March 1, 2009, PAETEC had a total of $935.5 million of indebtedness outstanding, including $300.0 million principal amount of senior notes, $579.7 million principal amount of borrowings outstanding under its senior secured term loan facilities and $50.0 million under its revolving credit facility. This substantial level of indebtedness may have important consequences. For example, it may: • make it more difficult for PAETEC to satisfy its financial obligations; • require PAETEC to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness; • limit PAETEC’s ability to pursue its acquisition strategy or react to changes to the economy or in its business or industry; and • place PAETEC at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies that have less indebtedness. Because a substantial portion of the borrowings under PAETEC’s senior secured credit facilities accrues interest at variable rates, PAETEC’s interest expense could increase if interest rates increase and it is not able to manage its related exposure through derivative financial instruments. Covenants under PAETEC’s debt agreements may restrict its future operations. PAETEC’s senior secured credit facilities and senior notes indenture impose operating and financial restrictions that limit PAETEC’s discretion on some business matters, which could make it more difficult for PAETEC to expand, finance its operations and engage in other business activities that may be in its interest. These restrictions include compliance with or maintenance of a maximum leverage ratio under PAETEC’s credit facilities, and will limit the ability of PAETEC and its subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase PAETEC’s capital stock, create restrictions on dividend and other payments to PAETEC from its subsidiaries, issue or sell stock of subsidiaries, and make investments or repay subordinated indebtedness; and 30 Table of Contents • engage in sale-leaseback transactions, sell assets, create liens, and engage in mergers, sales, acquisitions and consolidations. PAETEC may incur indebtedness in addition to the foregoing indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness it may incur in the future may subject PAETEC to similar or even more restrictive conditions. If PAETEC is unable to raise additional capital, its ability to expand its business and to meet its obligations will be limited. The development and expansion of PAETEC’s network will require substantial capital investment. If PAETEC chooses to accelerate the expansion of its business, PAETEC will require additional capital. PAETEC also may require additional capital to fund payments of its indebtedness as an increasing amount of such indebtedness becomes due and payable. If PAETEC cannot successfully obtain additional equity or debt financing for necessary purposes on acceptable terms, PAETEC could be at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with significant capital or the ability to raise significant capital for expansion. The terms of any financing PAETEC does obtain may be burdensome to PAETEC. PAETEC’s operating performance will suffer if it is not offered competitive rates for the access services PAETEC needs to provide its long distance services. PAETEC depends on other telecommunications companies to originate and terminate a significant portion of the long distance traffic initiated by its network services customers. Access charges historically have made up a significant percentage of the overall cost associated with the provision of long distance service by PAETEC. If the volume of long distance traffic PAETEC carries remains substantial, its operating performance will suffer if it is not offered these access services at rates that are substantially equivalent to the rates charged to its competitors or that otherwise do not enable it to have profitable pricing of its long distance services. Regulatory initiatives may continue to reduce the rates PAETEC is permitted to charge for some services that it provides to long distance and competing local exchange carriers. The rates that PAETEC charges long distance service providers for originating or terminating interstate and intrastate calls initiated by their customers to customers served by its network, and for transferring calls by PAETEC’s customers onto the long distance carrier’s network, cannot exceed the rates established by federal and, in some cases, state regulatory authorities. There are several pending FCC and state regulatory proceedings addressing these rates and state legislative proposals that would mandate reductions in competitive carrier rates for these services. The outcome of these proceedings and legislative initiatives could result in a material reduction in the rates PAETEC may charge some carriers for originating and terminating long distance traffic. Mandated reductions in switched access rates for all carriers also could adversely affect operating margins and revenues of PAETEC’s carrier services business, as PAETEC’s wholesale termination and origination services may not be offered at significantly lower cost than the reduced switched access rates. Similarly, the rates PAETEC may charge to local carriers to terminate local calls made by their customers to PAETEC’s customers are governed by state regulatory authorities and agreements between the local carriers and PAETEC. In the future, federal or state regulatory authorities may institute proceedings that could have the effect of reducing the rates PAETEC may charge local service providers for terminating local traffic. Such reductions in originating and terminating rates could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC’s business and cash flow. If PAETEC does not continue to attract and retain qualified personnel and independent sales agents or retain its key management, PAETEC may not be able to execute its business plan. PAETEC faces competition for qualified personnel, including management, technical and sales personnel. PAETEC also relies on a large number of independent sales agents to market and sell PAETEC’s services. If 31 Table of Contents PAETEC is unable to attract and retain experienced and motivated personnel, including a large and effective direct sales force, a substantial number of independent sales agents, and qualified information technology and other back office personnel, PAETEC may not be able to obtain new customers or effectively service existing customers, or sell sufficient amounts of service to execute PAETEC’s business plan. Additionally, the loss of key management personnel could impair PAETEC’s ability to implement its acquisition integration plan and execute its business strategy, which could hinder PAETEC’s ability to sustain profitable operations. Failure to obtain and maintain necessary permits and rights-of-way could interfere with PAETEC’s network infrastructure and operations. To obtain and maintain rights-of-way and similar rights and easements needed to install, operate and maintain fiber optic cable and its other network elements, PAETEC must negotiate and manage agreements with state highway authorities, local governments, transit authorities, local telephone companies and other utilities, railroads, long distance carriers and other parties. The failure to obtain or maintain any rights-of-way could interfere with PAETEC’s operations, interfere with its network infrastructure and its use of that infrastructure and adversely affect PAETEC’s business. For example, if PAETEC loses access to a right-of-way, it may need to spend significant sums to remove and relocate its facilities. PAETEC and other industry participants are frequently involved in disputes over issues that, if decided adversely to PAETEC, could harm PAETEC’s financial and operational prospects. PAETEC anticipates that it will continue to be subject to risks associated with the resolution of various disputes, lawsuits, arbitrations and proceedings affecting PAETEC’s business. The deregulation of the telecommunications industry, the implementation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and the distress of many carriers in the telecommunications industry as a result of continued competitive factors and financial pressures have resulted in the involvement of numerous industry participants, including PAETEC, in disputes, lawsuits, proceedings and arbitrations before state and federal regulatory commissions, private arbitration organizations such as the American Arbitration Association, and courts over many issues that will be important to PAETEC’s financial and operational success. These issues include the interpretation and enforcement of existing interconnection agreements and tariffs, the terms of new interconnection agreements, operating performance obligations, intercarrier compensation, access charges applicable to different categories of traffic (including traffic originating from or terminating on wireless networks), the jurisdiction of traffic for intercarrier compensation purposes, the wholesale services and facilities available to PAETEC, the prices PAETEC will pay for those services and facilities, and the regulatory treatment of new technologies and services. PAETEC’s business could suffer if third parties successfully claim that PAETEC has infringed their intellectual property rights. The dependence of the telecommunications industry on proprietary technology has resulted in increasingly frequent litigation based on allegations of the infringement of patents and other intellectual property. PAETEC may be subject to litigation to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Regardless of its merits, any intellectual property litigation could be time-consuming and costly and could divert management’s time and attention from PAETEC’s business operations. Adverse resolutions of any such litigation could adversely affect PAETEC’s business by requiring PAETEC to: • pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that it normally would not find acceptable; • stop selling or to redesign some of its products or services; or • satisfy indemnification obligations to its customers. 32 Table of Contents If PAETEC is unable to maintain or enhance its back office information systems, PAETEC may not be able to increase its revenue as planned or to compete effectively. Sophisticated back office information systems are vital to PAETEC’s revenue growth and PAETEC’s ability to monitor costs, bill customers, initiate, implement and track customer orders, and achieve operating efficiencies. To increase revenue, PAETEC must select products and services offered by third-party vendors and efficiently integrate those products and services into PAETEC’s existing back office operations. PAETEC may not successfully implement these products, services and systems on a timely basis, and PAETEC’s systems may fail to perform as the company expects. A failure or delay in the expected performance of PAETEC’s back office systems, or a failure or delay in effectively integrating the back office systems of acquired companies with PAETEC’s back office systems, could slow the pace of PAETEC’s expected revenue growth or harm PAETEC’s competitiveness by adversely affecting PAETEC’s service quality, which could lead to a loss of existing customers or a failure to attract and retain new customers. Network failures or system breaches could cause delays or adversely affect PAETEC’s service quality, which may cause it to lose customers and revenue. In operating its network, PAETEC must maintain connections for, and manage, a large number of customers and a large quantity of traffic at high speeds. Any failure or perceived failure to achieve or maintain high-speed data transmission could significantly reduce demand for PAETEC’s services and adversely affect PAETEC’s operating results. PAETEC has experienced outages, such as temporary switch outages, that have prevented PAETEC from providing uninterrupted services to some of its customers. Outages such as these have resulted in lost revenue and could cause PAETEC to lose customers. In the future, PAETEC may experience similar or more severe outages or other network failures or breaches. Computer viruses, break-ins, human error, natural disasters and other problems also may disrupt PAETEC’s network. The network security and stability measures PAETEC implements may be circumvented in the future or otherwise fail to prevent the disruption of PAETEC’s services. The costs and resources required to eliminate computer viruses and other security problems may result in interruptions, delays or cessation of services to PAETEC’s customers, which could result in a decrease in demand, decrease PAETEC’s revenue and slow PAETEC’s planned expansion. If PAETEC’s network or other ground facilities are damaged by natural catastrophes or terrorism, PAETEC’s ability to provide services may be interrupted and the quality of PAETEC’s services may be adversely affected. A major earthquake, hurricane, tornado, fire, terrorist attack on the United States, or other catastrophic event could damage PAETEC’s network, network operations centers, central offices or corporate headquarters. Such an event could interrupt PAETEC’s service, adversely affect service quality and harm PAETEC’s business. PAETEC does not have replacement or redundant facilities that it can use to provide alternative means of service to all customers or under every circumstance in the event of a catastrophic event. Any damage to PAETEC’s network could result in degradation of PAETEC’s service for some customers and could result in complete loss of service in affected areas. Future sales of PAETEC’s common stock in the public market could lower the price of PAETEC common stock and impair PAETEC’s ability to raise funds in future securities offerings. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of PAETEC common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of PAETEC common stock and could make it more difficult for PAETEC to raise funds through a public offering of its equity securities. PAETEC has entered into a registration rights agreement with some of McLeodUSA’s former stockholders, and PAETEC stockholders with rights under that registration rights agreement and a second registration rights agreement will have the benefit, subject to limitations and qualifications, to demand, piggyback and, in the case of the McLeodUSA stockholders, shelf registration rights with respect to their PAETEC common stock. 33 Table of Contents If PAETEC fails to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting or fails to implement any required changes, PAETEC’s ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could increase its operating costs and adversely affect its ability to operate its business. PAETEC is required to provide annual management assessments of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting and to provide reports on the effectiveness of its internal control by PAETEC’s independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. Ensuring that PAETEC has adequate internal control over financial reporting so that PAETEC can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort. Implementing any required changes to PAETEC’s internal controls may require modifications to PAETEC’s existing accounting systems or the engagement of additional accounting personnel. Any failure to maintain adequate internal controls, or the inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase PAETEC’s operating costs and impair PAETEC’s ability to operate its business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 