ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We depend on our ability to continue to obtain federal government dredging contracts, and are therefore impacted by the amount of government funding for dredging projects. A reduction in government funding for dredging contracts can reduce our revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from federal government dredging contracts. Revenues related to contracts with federal agencies or companies operating under contracts with federal agencies and its percentage as a total of dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Federal government dredging revenue (in US$1,000) $ 367,320 $ 347,923 $ 285,183 Percent of dredging revenue from federal government 60 % 61 % 59 % Amounts spent by the federal government on dredging are subject to the budgetary and legislative processes. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the federal government will allocate any particular amount or level of funds to be spent on dredging for any specified period. In addition, federal government contracts can be canceled at any time without penalty to the government, subject to our contractual right to recover our actual committed costs and profit on work performed up to the date of cancellation. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the federal government will not cancel any federal government contracts that have been or are awarded to us. Therefore, a reduction in government funding for dredging contracts can materially reduce our revenues and profits. Most of our dredging contracts are fixed-price contracts pursuant to which we charge a fixed price per unit of material dredged. If we are unable to accurately estimate our costs to complete our projects, our profitability could suffer. Most dredging contracts are fixed-price contracts where the customer pays a fixed price per unit (e.g., cubic yard) of material dredged. Fixed-price dredging contracts carry inherent risks, including risks of losses from underestimating costs, operational difficulties and other changes that sometimes occur over the contract period. One of the more significant factors that can adversely effect the profitability of a dredging project is inclement or hazardous weather conditions that exceed our estimates. Such an event can result in substantial delays in performance time and cause additional contract expenses. In addition, most of our demolition contracts are fixed-price contracts where the customer pays a fixed price for our performance under the contract. Fixed-price demolition contracts carry similar risks to our fixed-price dredging contracts. If we were to significantly underestimate the costs on one or more significant contracts, the resulting losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future. You should not rely on the results of any past quarter or quarters as an indication of future performance in our business operations or stock price. Our operating results could vary greatly from quarter to quarter due to factors such as: • inclement or hazardous weather conditions that may result in underestimated delays in dredging and additional contract expenses; • unplanned equipment downtime; 15 Table of Contents • environmental restrictions requiring that certain projects be performed in winter months to protect wildlife habitats; and • equipment mobilization to and from projects. If our results of operations from quarter to quarter fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could suffer or be negatively impacted. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Primary Factors that Determine Operating Profitability.” Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a change in previously recorded revenue and profit. We recognize contract revenue using the percentage-of-completion method. The majority of our work is performed on a fixed-price basis. Contract revenue is accrued based on engineering estimates for the physical percent complete for dredging and estimates of remaining costs to complete for demolition. We use accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for accounting policies relating to our use of the percentage-of-completion method, estimating costs, revenue recognition, combining and segmenting contracts and change order/claim recognition. Percentage-of-completion accounting relies on the use of estimates in the process of determining income earned. The cumulative impact of revisions to estimates is reflected in the period in which these changes become known. Due to the various estimates inherent in our contract accounting, actual results could differ from those estimates. We are subject to risks related to our international dredging operations. Revenue from foreign contracts and its percentage to total dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Foreign revenue (in US $1,000) $ 82,898 $ 134,123 $ 172,345 Percent of dredging revenue from foreign countries 14 % 23 % 36 % International operations subject us to additional potential risks, including: • uncertainties concerning import and export license requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; • reduced Middle Eastern demand as a result of fluctuations in the price of oil, the primary export in the Middle East; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; • requirements of foreign laws, policies and regulations; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations without additional expense; • taxation issues; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • difficulty in enforcing our contractual rights; • currency fluctuations; and • under insured political, cultural and economic uncertainties, including acts of terrorism and civil unrest. 16 Table of Contents One customer currently accounts for a significant portion of our international revenue. Revenue from contracts with the government of Bahrain and entities with which it does business and its percentage to total foreign dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Bahrain government dredging revenue (in US$ 1,000) $ 55,399 $ 126,026 $ 161,254 Percent of foreign dredging revenue from the Bahrain government 67 % 94 % 94 % Revenue from foreign projects over the last three years has been concentrated in Bahrain and primarily with the government of Bahrain. The contraction in the Middle East real estate market has slowed the rate of the region’s infrastructure development. If the government of Bahrain further curtails its infrastructure investment or diversifies its use of dredging vendors, our revenue from this customer could decline further. In February and March 2011, Bahrain experienced civil unrest that could result in governmental instability. In response thereto, the government of Bahrain has instituted several measures, including a national curfew, that have impacted our ability to execute on projects in Bahrain. It is uncertain whether this civil unrest will continue, whether the current protests and other activities will lead to any meaningful government changes, and what additional restrictions, if any, the Bahrain government will establish. If the government changes, these measures are sustained, or additional restrictions are established, our Bahrain dredging operations, including the value of our assets related to such operations, may be adversely affected. In addition, it is uncertain if current events in Bahrain will alter the government’s plans for infrastructure investment. There are integration and consolidation risks associated with the Matteson acquisition. Future acquisitions may result in significant transaction expenses, unexpected liabilities and risks associated with entering new markets, and we may be unable to profitably operate these businesses. On December 31, 2010, we acquired Matteson. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire additional companies that expand, complement, or diversify our business. We regularly review various opportunities and periodically engage in discussions regarding possible acquisitions. The Matteson acquisition and future acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including risks associated with entering new markets, diversion of management’s attention from our existing business, failure to retain key personnel or customers of any acquired business, assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business for which there are inadequate reserves and potential impairment of acquired intangible assets. In addition, we may not have the appropriate management, financial or other resources needed to integrate any businesses that we acquire. Any future acquisitions may result in significant transaction expenses and unexpected liabilities. The amount of our estimated backlog is subject to change and not necessarily indicative of future revenues. Our contract backlog represents our estimate of the revenues that we will realize under the portion of the contracts remaining to be performed. For dredging contracts these estimates are based primarily upon the time and costs required to mobilize the necessary assets to and from the project site, the amount and type of material to be dredged and the expected production capabilities of the equipment performing the work. For demolition contracts, these estimates are based on the time and remaining costs required to complete the project, relative to total estimated project costs and project revenues agreed to with the customer. However, these estimates are necessarily subject to variances based upon actual circumstances. Because of these factors, as well as factors affecting the time required to complete each job, backlog is not necessarily indicative of future revenues or 17 Table of Contents profitability. In addition, a significant amount of our dredging backlog relates to federal government contracts, which can be canceled at any time without penalty to the government, subject to our contractual right to recover our actual committed costs and profit on work performed up to the date of cancellation. Below is our dredging backlog from federal government contracts as of December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 and the percentage of those contracts to total backlog as of the same date. The amount of our federal government dredging backlog at December 31, 2010 includes amounts acquired in connection with the Matteson acquisition. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Federal government dredging backlog (in US $1,000) $ 141,411 $ 309,571 $ 180,002 Percent of dredging backlog from federal government 55 % 85 % 50 % If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, our revenue could suffer. Our contracts with federal, state and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations and other contract provisions. Serious violations of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and fines and suspension from future government contracting. If we are suspended from government work for any reason, we could suffer a material reduction in revenue and cash flows. In addition, we may be subject to litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, referred to in this annual report as “qui tam”, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Qui tam actions are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information in the complaint are the complainant, the U.S. government and the court. Therefore, it is possible that qui tam actions have been filed against us and that we are not aware of such actions or have been ordered by the court not to discuss them until the seal is lifted. Thus, it is possible that we are subject to liability exposure for qui tam actions. We have indebtedness, which makes us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions. As of December 31, 2010, we had indebtedness of $182.5 million consisting of $175 million of senior subordinated notes and a $7.5 million note issued as part of the Matteson acquisition. In January 2011, we refinanced our senior subordinated notes with the issuance of $250 million senior unsecured notes. In addition, we have the ability to borrow up to $145 million under our revolving credit facility. Our debt could: • require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures, pay dividends and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industries; • affects our competitiveness compared to our less leveraged competitors; • increase our exposure to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; and • limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable, in the future, to obtain bonding or letters of credit for our dredging contracts, our ability to obtain future dredging contracts will be limited, thereby adversely affecting our business. We, like all dredging service providers, are generally required to post bonds in connection with our domestic dredging contracts and bonds or letters of credit with our foreign dredging contracts to ensure job completion if we ever fail to finish a project. We have entered into a bonding agreement with Travelers, pursuant to which Travelers acts as surety, issues bid bonds, performance bonds and payment bonds, and provides guarantees required by us in the day-to-day operations of our dredging business. However, under certain circumstances as specified in the agreement, Travelers is not obligated under the bonding agreement to issue future bonds for us. With respect to our foreign dredging business, we generally obtain letters of credit under our senior credit facility and a separate facility which is supported by Ex-Im under Ex-Im’s Working Capital Guarantee Program. However, the amount of letters of credit under these facilities is limited. In addition, access to our senior credit facility and the Ex-Im facility may be limited by failure to meet certain financial requirements or other defined requirements. If we are unable to obtain bonds or letters of credit, our ability to take on future work would be severely limited. Our business would be adversely affected if we failed to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade, or if those provisions were modified or repealed. We are subject to the Jones Act and other federal laws that restrict dredging in U.S. waters and maritime transportation between points in the United States to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the United States, at least 75% owned and operated by U.S. citizens and manned by U.S. crews. We are responsible for monitoring the ownership of our common stock to ensure compliance with these laws. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the U.S. market, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. dredging rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. In the past, interest groups have unsuccessfully lobbied Congress to modify or repeal the Jones Act to facilitate foreign flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. flag vessels under the Jones Act. We believe that continued efforts may be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act or other federal laws currently benefiting U.S. flag vessels. If these efforts are ever successful, it could result in significantly increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel and may also increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of our vessels will increase. The average age of our more significant vessels as of December 31, 2010, by equipment type, is as follows: 19 Table of Contents Type of Equipment Quantity Average Age in Years Hydraulic Dredges 20 34 Hopper Dredges 10 29 Mechanical Dredges 5 35 Unloaders 2 33 Drillboats 2 20 Material and Other Barges 150 31 Total 189 31 Remaining economic life has not been presented because it is not reasonably quantifiable because, to the extent that market conditions warrant the expenditures, we can prolong the vessels’ lives indefinitely. We operate in an industry where a significant portion of competitors’ equipment is of a similar age. It is common in the dredging industry to make maintenance and capital expenditures in order to extend the economic life of equipment. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us, along with others in our industry, to make additional expenditures. For example, if the U.S. Coast Guard enacts new standards, we may be required to make significant expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment. In order to satisfy any such requirement, we may need to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. Environmental regulations could force us to incur capital and operational costs. Our industry, and more specifically, our operations, facilities and vessels, are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to, among other things: dredging operations; the disposal of dredged material; protection of wetlands; storm water and waste water discharges; demolition activities; asbestos removal; transportation and disposal of wastes and other regulated materials; air emissions; and remediation of contaminated soil, sediments, surface water and groundwater. We, and others who participate in the marine industry, are also subject to laws designed to protect certain marine species and habitats. Compliance with these statutes and regulations can delay permitting and/or performance of particular projects and increase related project costs. These delays and increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Non-compliance can also result in fines, penalties and claims by third parties seeking damages for alleged personal injury, as well as damages to property and natural resources. Certain environmental laws such as the US Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 impose strict and, under some circumstances joint and several, liability on owners and operators of facilities and vessels for investigation and remediation of releases and discharges of regulated materials, and also impose liability for related damages to natural resources. Our past and ongoing operations involve the use and from time to time the release or discharge of regulated materials which could result in liability under these and other environmental laws. We have remediated known releases and discharges as deemed necessary, but there can be no guarantee that additional costs will not be incurred if, for example, third party claims arise or new conditions are discovered. 20 Table of Contents Our projects may involve demolition, excavation, transportation, management and disposal of hazardous waste and other regulated materials. Various laws strictly regulate the removal, treatment and transportation of hazardous waste and other regulated materials and impose liability for human health effects and environmental contamination caused by these materials. Our demolition business, for example, requires us to transport and dispose of hazardous substances and other wastes, such as asbestos. Services rendered in connection with hazardous substance and material removal and site development may involve professional judgments by licensed experts about the nature of soil conditions and other physical conditions, including the extent to which hazardous substances and materials are present, and about the probable effect of procedures to mitigate problems or otherwise affect those conditions. If the judgments and the recommendations based upon those judgments are incorrect, we may be liable for resulting damages, which may be material. The failure of certain contractual protections, including any indemnification from our customers or subcontractors, to protect us from incurring such liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Environmental requirements have generally become more stringent over time, for example in the areas of air emissions controls for vessels and ballast treatment and handling. New or stricter enforcement of existing laws, the discovery of currently unknown conditions or accidental discharges of regulated materials in the future could cause us to incur additional costs for environmental matters which might be significant. We may be affected by market or regulatory responses to climate change. Increased concern about the potential impact of greenhouse gases (GHG) such as carbon dioxide resulting from combustion of fossil fuels on climate change has resulted in efforts to regulate their emission. For example, there is a growing consensus that new and additional regulations concerning GHG emissions including “cap and trade” legislation may be enacted, which could result in increased compliance costs for us. Legislation, international protocols, regulation or other restrictions on GHG emissions could also affect our customers. Such legislation or restrictions could increase the costs of projects for our customers or, in some cases, prevent a project from going forward, thereby potentially reducing the need for our services which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Additionally, in our normal course of operations, we use a significant amount of fossil fuels. The costs of controlling our GHG emissions or obtaining required emissions allowances in response to any regulatory change could increase materially. Our business could suffer in the event of a work stoppage by our unionized labor force. We are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements in the U.S. that govern our industry’s relationships with our unionized hourly workforce. Specifically, four primary agreements apply to approximately 65% of these employees. Our three contracts with Local 25 Operators Union for the northern, southern and gulf regions, representing approximately 43% of our unionized workforce, are set to expire in October 2012. Our agreement with Seafarers International Union expires in February 2012. The inability to successfully renegotiate contracts with these unions as they expire, or any future strikes, employee slowdowns or similar actions by one or more unions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Our employees are covered by federal laws that may provide seagoing employees remedies for job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. Substantially all of our seagoing employees are covered by provisions of the Jones Act and general maritime law. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal or state courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes with respect to our seagoing employees, we have 21 Table of Contents greater exposure for claims made by these employees as compared to industries whose employees are not covered by these provisions. Our business is subject to significant operating risks and hazards that could result in damage or destruction to persons or property, which could result in losses or liabilities to us. The dredging and demolition businesses are generally subject to a number of risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, encountering unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins below water levels, collisions, disruption of transportation services and flooding. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, dredges, transportation vessels, other maritime structures and buildings, and could also result in personal injury, environmental damage, performance delays, monetary losses or legal liability to third parties. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all. We maintain various insurance policies, including hull and machinery, general liability and personal injury. We partially self-insure risks covered by our policies. We are not required to, and do not, specifically set aside funds for the self-insured portion of claims. At any given time, we are subject to multiple personal injury claims and we maintain substantial loss accruals for these claims. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. We may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain such insurance coverage at acceptable rates or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Our demolition business includes key customer relationships and our reputation in the Massachusetts construction market, both of which have been developed and maintained primarily by our demolition employees. Loss of any of these elements could materially reduce our demolition revenues and profits. Demolition contracts are entered into on a project by project basis, so we do not have continuing contractual commitments with our demolition customers beyond the terms of the current contract. We benefit from key relationships with certain general and construction contractors in the Massachusetts market. We also benefit from our reputation in the Massachusetts market developed over years of successfully performing on projects. Both of these aspects of the business were developed and are maintained primarily by the officers of NASDI’s parent company. The inability to maintain relationships with these customers or obtain new customers based on NASDI’s reputation could reduce the revenue and profitability from demolition contracts. Our inability to retain certain executives could have a material adverse affect on our demolition segment’s current customer relationships and reputation. Our common stock is subject to restrictions on foreign ownership. We are subject to government regulations pursuant to the Dredging Act, the Jones Act, the Shipping Act and the vessel documentation laws set forth in Chapter 121 of Title 46 of the United States Code. These statutes require vessels engaged in the transport of merchandise or passengers or dredging in the navigable waters of the U.S. to be owned and controlled by U.S. citizens. The U.S. citizenship ownership and control standards require the vessel-owning entity to be at least 75% U.S.-citizen owned. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions limiting non-citizenship ownership of our capital stock. If our board of directors determines that persons who are not citizens of the U.S. own more than 22.5% of our outstanding capital stock or more than 22.5% of our voting power, we may redeem such stock. The required redemption price could be materially different from the current price of our common stock or the price at which the non-citizen acquired the common stock. If a non-citizen purchases our common stock, there can be no assurance that he will not be required to divest the shares and such divestiture could result in a material loss. Such restrictions and redemption rights 22 Table of Contents may make our equity securities less attractive to potential investors, which may result in our common stock having a lower market price than it might have in the absence of such restrictions and redemption rights. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover that you may consider favorable. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may also deter, delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us. These provisions include: • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend our charter documents, including stockholder supermajority voting requirements; • the inability of stockholders to call special meetings; • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for stockholder proposals; • the authority of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and to issue additional shares of our common stock. We are also subject to the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless board or stockholder approval were obtained. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, discourage others from making tender offers for our shares, lower the market price of our stock or impede the ability of our stockholders to change our management, even if such changes would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our stockholders may not receive dividends because of restrictions in our debt agreements, Delaware law and state regulatory requirements. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by the agreements governing our debt, including our senior credit agreement, our bonding agreements and the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes. In addition, under Delaware law, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of our surplus, as calculated in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law, or, if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. To the extent we do not have adequate surplus or net profits, we will be prohibited from paying dividends. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for holders to resell our common stock when they want or at prices that they find attractive. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • changes in market conditions; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; 23 Table of Contents • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; • changes in the economy and the financial markets; • departures of key personnel; • changes in governmental regulations; and • geopolitical conditions, such as acts or threats of terrorism, political instability, civil unrest or military conflicts. In addition, in recent years, global stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons often unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Future issuances of our common stock will dilute the ownership interests of stockholders and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could materially and adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The domestic and worldwide capital and credit markets have experienced and are experiencing significant volatility, disruptions and dislocations with respect to price and credit availability. Should we need additional funds or to refinance our existing indebtedness, we may not be able to obtain such additional funds. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity are cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior credit facility. In the event these resources do not satisfy our liquidity needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. If internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. We enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate paid with respect to our fixed rate indebtedness and heating oil commodity swap contracts to hedge the risk that fluctuations in diesel fuel prices will have an adverse impact on cash flows associated with our domestic dredging contracts. The United States 24 Table of Contents Congress has passed, and the President has signed into law, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Financial Reform Act”). The Financial Reform Act provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including foreign currency hedging transactions. The Financial Reform Act requires the Commodities Futures and Trading Commission to promulgate rules relating to the Financial Reform Act. When the rules relating to the Financial Reform Act are established, we will assess the effect, if any, they will have on us. The rules adopted by the Commodities Futures and Trading Commission may in the future significantly reduce our ability to execute strategic hedges to manage our interest expense and reduce our fuel commodity uncertainty and thus protect cash flows. In addition, the banks and other derivatives dealers who are our contractual counterparties will be required to comply with the Financial Reform Act’s new requirements, and the costs of their compliance will likely be passed on to customers such as ourselves, thus potentially decreasing the benefits to us of swap and hedging transactions and potentially reducing our profitability. The current weakness in the economic environment and other factors could lead to our goodwill and other intangible assets becoming impaired, which may require us to take significant non-cash charges against earnings. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets have been impaired. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets as a result of such analysis would result in a non-cash charge against earnings, which charge could materially adversely affect our reported net income and our stock price. We test goodwill annually for impairment in the third quarter of each year, or more frequently should circumstances dictate. A significant and sustained decline in our future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the economic environment, slower growth rates or our stock price falling below our net book value per share for a sustained period could result in the need to perform additional impairment analysis in future periods. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets is necessary, then we would be required to record a non-cash charge against earnings, which, in turn, could have a material adverse affect on our reported net income and the book value of our stockholders’ equity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 Table of Contents 