Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business and Structure — Pending legislation may allow us to incur additional leverage.” Our ability to recapitalize, incur additional debt and take a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the 7.375% Notes Due 2019 may have important consequences for you as a holder of the 7.375% Notes Due 2019, including making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the 7.375% Notes Due 2019 or negatively affecting the trading value of the 7.375% Notes Due 2019. Other debt we issue or incur in the future could contain more protections for its holders than the indenture and the 7.375% Notes Due 2019, including additional covenants and events of default. The issuance or incurrence of any such debt with incremental protections could affect the market for and trading levels and prices of the 7.375% Notes Due 2019. Even though the 7.375% Notes Due 2019 are listed on the NYSE, an active trading market for the 7.375% Notes Due 2019 may not develop, or if it does develop, it will be sustained, which could limit your ability to sell the 7.375% Notes Due 2019 or affect the market price of the 7.375% Notes Due 2019. We cannot provide any assurances that an active trading market will develop for the 7.375% Notes Due 2019 or that, if it does develop, it will be sustained or that you will be able to sell your 7.375% Notes Due 2019. The 7.375% Notes Due 2019 may trade at a discount from the price paid for the notes depending on 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS prevailing interest rates, the market for similar securities, our credit ratings, if any, general economic conditions, our financial condition, performance and prospects and other factors. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that a liquid trading market will develop for the 7.375% Notes Due 2019, or that, if an active trading market for the 7.375% Notes Due 2019 does develop, it will be sustained, that you will be able to sell your 7.375% Notes Due 2019 at a particular time or that the price you receive when you sell will be favorable. To the extent an active trading market does not develop the liquidity and trading price for the 7.375% Notes Due 2019 may be harmed. Accordingly, you may be required to bear the financial risk of an investment in the 7.375% Notes Due 2019 for an indefinite period of time. If we default on our obligations to pay our other indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on the Convertible Notes. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under the Convertible Notes due 2016 and other indebtedness to which we may be a party that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness could make us unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Convertible Notes and substantially decrease the market value of the Convertible Notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lender any debt we may incur in the future could elect to terminate its commitment, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to seek to obtain waivers from under any other debt that we may incur in the future to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under any debt and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under any debt, the lender could exercise its rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If we are unable to repay debt, lenders having secured obligations could proceed against the collateral securing the debt. Because the Convertible Notes have, and any future debt we issue will likely have, customary cross-default provisions, if the indebtedness under the Convertible Notes or any other debt we may issue is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 