ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We depend on our ability to continue to obtain federal government dredging contracts, and are therefore greatly impacted by the amount of government funding for dredging projects. A reduction in government funding for dredging contracts can materially reduce our revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from federal government dredging contracts. Revenues related to contracts with federal agencies or companies operating under contracts with federal agencies and its percentage as a total of dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Federal government dredging revenue (in US$1,000) $ 347,923 $ 285,183 $ 186,694 Percent of dredging revenue from federal government 61 % 59 % 42 % Therefore, a reduction in government funding for dredging contracts can materially reduce our revenues and profits. Our profitability is subject to inherent risks because of the fixed-price nature of most of our contracts. Substantially all of our contracts with our customers are fixed-price contracts. Under a fixed-price contract, the customer agrees to pay a specified price for our performance. Fixed-price contracts carry inherent risks, including risks of losses from underestimating costs, operational difficulties and other changes that may occur over the contract period. One of the most significant factors affecting the profitability of a dredging project is the weather at the project site. Inclement or hazardous weather conditions that exceed our estimates can result in substantial delays in dredging and additional contract expenses. Due to these factors, it is possible that we will not be able to perform our obligations under fixed-price contracts without incurring additional expenses. If we were to significantly underestimate the costs on one or more significant contracts, the resulting losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future. You should not rely on the results of any past quarter or quarters as an indication of future performance in our business operations or stock price. Our operating results could vary greatly from quarter to quarter due to factors such as: • inclement or hazardous weather conditions that may result in substantial delays in dredging and additional contract expenses; • unplanned equipment downtime; • environmental restrictions requiring that certain projects be performed in winter months to protect wildlife habitats; and • equipment mobilization to and from projects. If our results of operations from quarter to quarter fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could suffer or be negatively impacted. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Primary Factors that Determine Operating Profitability” Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profit. We recognize contract revenue using the percentage-of-completion method. The majority of our work is performed on a fixed-price basis. Contract revenue is accrued based on engineering estimates for the physical percent 14 Table of Contents complete for dredging and estimates of remaining costs to complete for demolition. We use accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for accounting policies relating to our use of the percentage-of-completion method, estimating costs, revenue recognition, combining and segmenting contracts and change order/claim recognition. Percentage-of-completion accounting relies on the use of significant estimates in the process of determining income earned. The cumulative impact of revisions to estimates is reflected in the period in which these changes become known. Due to the various estimates inherent in our contract accounting, actual results could differ from those estimates, which may result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profit. We are subject to risks related to our international dredging operations. Revenue from foreign contracts and its percentage to total dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Foreign revenue (in US $1000) $ 134,123 $ 172,345 $ 140,468 Percent of dredging revenue from foreign countries 23 % 36 % 32 % International operations subject us to additional potential risks, including: • uncertainties concerning import and export license requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; • reduced Middle Eastern demand as a result of fluctuations in the price of oil, the primary export in the Middle East; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; • changes in foreign laws, policies and regulatory requirements; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • taxation issues; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • difficulty in enforcing the Company’s contractual rights; • currency fluctuations; and • political, cultural and economic uncertainties, including acts of terrorism. The work currently performed internationally is primarily with one customer. Revenue from contracts with the government of Bahrain and entities with which it does business and its percentage to total foreign dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Bahrain government dredging revenue (in US$ 1,000) $ 126,026 $ 161,254 $ 106,119 Percent of foreign dredging revenue from the Bahrain government 94 % 94 % 76 % Revenue from foreign projects over the last three years has been concentrated in Bahrain and primarily with the government of Bahrain. The recent decline in oil prices and contraction in the Middle East real estate market has 15 Table of Contents slowed the rate of the region’s infrastructure development. For example, the downturn has impacted the scope of our Diyar land reclamation project. In the first quarter of 2009, part of the contracted backlog became an option that the customer may or may not award. In addition, the renegotiated contract provides longer payment terms. As a result of these factors, we expect revenue from this customer to decline, and if the government of Bahrain further curtails its infrastructure investment or diversifies its use of dredging vendors, our revenue from this customer could decline further. The amount of our estimated backlog is subject to change and not necessarily indicative of future revenues. Our contract backlog represents our estimate of the revenues that we will realize under the portion of the contracts remaining to be performed. For dredging contracts these estimates are based primarily upon the time and costs required to mobilize the necessary assets to and from the project site, the amount and type of material to be dredged and the expected production capabilities of the equipment performing the work. For demolition contracts, these estimates are based on the time and remaining costs required to complete the project. However, these estimates are necessarily subject to variances based upon actual circumstances. Because of these factors, as well as factors affecting the time required to complete each job, backlog is not necessarily indicative of future revenues or profitability. In addition, a significant amount of our dredging backlog relates to federal government contracts, which can be canceled at any time without penalty, subject to our right, in some cases, to recover our actual committed costs and profit on work performed up to the date of cancellation. Below is our dredging backlog from federal government contracts as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and the percentage of those contracts to total backlog as of the same period. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Federal government dredging backlog (in US $1,000) $ 309,571 $ 180,002 $ 212,313 Percent of dredging backlog from federal government 85 % 50 % 66 % If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, our revenue could suffer. Our contracts with federal, state and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations and other contract provisions. Certain violations of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and fines, and suspension from future government contracting. If we are suspended from government work for any reason, we could suffer a material reduction in revenue and cash flows. In addition, we may be subject to litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, referred to in this annual report as “qui tam”, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Qui tam actions are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information in the complaint are the complainant, the U.S. government, and the court. Therefore, it is possible that qui tam actions have been filed against us and that we are not aware of such actions or have been ordered by the court not to discuss them until the seal is lifted. Thus, it is possible that we are subject to liability exposure for qui tam actions. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which makes us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding senior debt and senior subordinated notes of $186 million. This amount of debt is substantial and our debt could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures, pay dividends and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industries; 16 Table of Contents • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; • increase our vulnerability to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; and • limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Our business is subject to significant operating risks and hazards that could result in damage or destruction to persons or property, which could result in losses or liabilities to us. The dredging and demolition businesses are generally subject to a number of risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, encountering unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins below water levels, collisions, disruption of transportation services and flooding. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, dredges, transportation vessels, other maritime structures and buildings, and could also result in personal injury, environmental damage, performance delays, monetary losses or legal liability to third parties. If we are unable, in the future, to obtain bonding or letters of credit for our dredging contracts, our ability to obtain future dredging contracts will be limited, thereby adversely affecting our business. We, like all dredging service providers, are generally required to post bonds in connection with our domestic dredging contracts or letters of credit with our foreign dredging contracts to ensure job completion if we fail to finish a project. We have entered into a bonding agreement with Travelers, pursuant to which Travelers acts as surety, issues bid bonds, performance bonds and payment bonds, and provides guarantees required by us in the day-to-day operations of our dredging business. However, Travelers is not obligated under the bonding agreement to issue future bonds for us. With respect to our foreign dredging business, we generally obtain letters of credit under our senior credit facility and a separate facility which is supported by Ex-Im under Ex-Im’s Working Capital Guarantee Program. However, the amount of letters of credit under these facilities is limited. In addition, access to our senior credit facility and the Ex-Im facility may be limited by failure to meet certain financial requirements or other defined requirements. If we are unable to obtain bonds or letters of credit, our ability to take on future work would be severely limited. Our business would be adversely affected if we failed to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade, or if those provisions were modified or repealed. We are subject to the Jones Act and other federal laws that restrict dredging in U.S. waters and maritime transportation between points in the United States to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the United States, at least 75% owned and operated by U.S. citizens and manned by U.S. crews. Compliance with these laws increases our operating costs in comparison to non-U.S. dredging operations. We are responsible for monitoring the ownership of our common stock to ensure compliance with these laws. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the U.S. market, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. dredging rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. In the past, interest groups have lobbied Congress to modify or repeal the Jones Act to facilitate foreign flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. flag vessels under the Jones Act. We believe that continued efforts may be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act laws currently benefiting U.S. flag vessels. If these efforts are successful, it could result in significantly increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel and may also increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of our vessels will increase. 17 Table of Contents The average age of our more significant vessels as of December 31, 2009, by equipment type, is as follows: Type of Equipment Quantity Average Age in Years Hydraulic Dredges 11 42 Hopper Dredges 10 28 Mechanical Dredges 5 34 Unloaders 2 32 Drillboats 2 19 Material and Other Barges 91 30 Total 121 31 Remaining economic life has not been presented because it is not reasonably quantifiable since, to the extent that market conditions warrant the expenditures, we can prolong the vessels’ lives indefinitely. We operate in an industry where a significant portion of competitors’ equipment is of a similar age. It is common in the dredging industry to make maintenance and capital expenditures in order to extend the economic life of equipment. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make additional expenditures. For example, if the U.S. Coast Guard enacts new standards, we may be required to make significant expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment. In order to satisfy any such requirement, we may need to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. Environmental regulations could force us to incur significant capital and operational costs. Our operations and facilities are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to, among other things: dredging operations; the disposal of dredged material; protection of wetlands; storm water and waste water discharges; demolition activities; asbestos removal; transportation and disposal of other hazardous substances and materials; and air emissions. We are also subject to laws designed to protect certain marine species and habitats. Compliance with these statutes and regulations can delay permitting and/or performance of particular projects and increase related project costs. These delays and increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Our projects may involve demolition, excavation, transportation, management and disposal of hazardous waste and other hazardous substances and materials. Various laws strictly regulate the removal, treatment and transportation of hazardous waste and other hazardous substances and materials and impose liability for human health effects and environmental contamination caused by these materials. Our demolition business, for example, requires us to transport and dispose of hazardous substances and materials, such as asbestos. Services rendered in connection with hazardous substance and material removal and site development may involve professional judgments by licensed experts about the nature of soil conditions and other physical conditions, including the extent to which hazardous substances and materials are present, and about the probable effect of procedures to mitigate problems or otherwise affect those conditions. If the judgments and the recommendations based upon those judgments are incorrect, we may be liable for resulting damages that our customers incur, which may be material. The failure of certain contractual protections, including any indemnification from our customers or subcontractors, to protect us from incurring such liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. We may be affected by market or regulatory responses to climate change. Growing concerns about climate change may result in the imposition of additional environmental regulations. For example, there is a growing consensus that new and additional regulations concerning greenhouse gas emissions 18 Table of Contents and/or “cap and trade” legislation may be enacted, which could result in increased compliance costs for us and our customers. Legislation, international protocols, regulation or other restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers. Such legislation or restrictions could increase the costs of projects for our customers or, in some cases, prevent a project from going forward, thereby potentially reducing the need for our services which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Additionally, in our normal course of operations, we use a significant amount of fossil fuels. The costs of controlling our emissions or obtaining required emissions allowances in response to any regulatory change could be significant. We cannot predict when or whether any of these various legislative and regulatory proposals may become law or what their effect will be on us or our customers. Our business could suffer in the event of a work stoppage by our unionized labor force. We are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements in the U.S. that govern our relationships with our unionized hourly workforce. Specifically, three primary agreements apply to approximately 84% of these employees. Our two contracts with Local 25 Operators Union for the northern and southern regions, representing approximately 51% of our unionized workforce are set to expire in October 2012. Our agreement with Seafarers International Union expires in February 2012. The inability to successfully renegotiate contracts with these unions as they expire, any future strikes, employee slowdowns or similar actions by one or more unions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Our employees are covered by federal laws that may provide seagoing employees remedies for job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. All of our seagoing employees are covered by provisions of the Jones Act and general maritime law. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal or state courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes, we have greater exposure for claims made by these employees as compared to employers whose employees are not covered by these provisions. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all. We maintain various insurance policies, including hull and machinery, general liability and personal injury. We partially self-insure risks covered by our policies. We are not required to, and do not, specifically set aside funds for the self-insured portion of claims. At any given time, we are subject to multiple personal injury claims and we maintain substantial loss accruals for these claims. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. We may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain such insurance coverage at acceptable rates or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. A portion of our self-insurance for personal injury of our maritime workforce is effected through our membership in The West of England Ship Owners Mutual Insurance Association (Luxembourg) referred to in this annual report as “West of England”, an international protection and indemnity club that provides its members with liability insurance and ancillary cover. Under West of England’s rules, its members for any policy year are required to pay certain amounts (referred to as “calls”) to West of England based on its estimates of, among other things, requirements in respect of claims, reinsurance premiums, investment earnings and expenses for such policy year. For each policy year, West of England assesses members “advance calls” which constitute the members’ basic rate of contributions. West of England may also assess its members “additional calls” for any open policy year in order to provide West of England with the amount of funds needed to satisfy its liquidity needs for the applicable policy year. Accordingly, we have exposure to West of England’s investment volatility and claims experience. 19 Table of Contents Our demolition business depends on key customer relationships and our reputation in the Boston construction market, both of which have been developed and maintained by one individual. Loss of any of these elements would materially reduce our demolition revenues and profits. Demolition contracts are entered into on a project by project basis, so we do not have continuing contractual commitments with our demolition customers beyond the terms of the current contract. We benefit from key relationships with certain general and construction contractors in the Boston market. We also benefit from our reputation in the Boston market developed over years of successfully performing on projects. Both of these aspects of the business were developed and are maintained by the president of NASDI’s parent company. The inability to maintain relationships with these customers or obtain new customers based on NASDI’s reputation would reduce the revenue and profitability from demolition contracts. Our inability to retain this individual would have a material adverse affect on our demolition segment’s current customer relationships and reputation. Our common stock is subject to restrictions on foreign ownership. We are subject to government regulations pursuant to the Dredging Act, the Jones Act, the Shipping Act and the vessel documentation laws set forth in Chapter 121 of Title 46 of the United States Code. These statutes require vessels engaged in the transport of merchandise or passengers or dredging in the navigable waters of the U.S. to be owned and controlled by U.S. citizens. The U.S. citizenship ownership and control standards require the vessel-owning entity to be at least 75% U.S.-citizen owned. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions limiting non-citizenship ownership of our capital stock. If our board of directors determines that persons who are not citizens of the U.S. own more than 22.5% of our outstanding capital stock or more than 22.5% of our voting power, we may redeem such stock. The required redemption price could be materially different from the current price of our common stock or the price at which the non-citizen acquired the common stock. If a non-citizen purchases our common stock, there can be no assurance that he will not be required to divest the shares and such divestiture could result in a material loss. Such restrictions and redemption rights may make our equity securities less attractive to potential investors, which may result in our common stock having a lower market price than it might have in the absence of such restrictions and redemption rights. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover that you may consider favorable. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may also deter, delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us. These provisions include: • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend our charter documents, including stockholder supermajority voting requirements; • the inability of stockholders to call special meetings; • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for stockholder proposals; • the authority of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and to issue additional shares of our common stock. We are also subject to the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless board or stockholder approval were obtained. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, discourage others from making tender offers for our shares, lower the market price of our stock or impede the ability of our stockholders to change our management, even if such changes would be beneficial to our stockholders. 20 Table of Contents Our stockholders may not receive dividends because of restrictions in our debt agreements, Delaware law and state regulatory requirements. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by the agreements governing our debt, including our senior credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes, as well as Delaware law and state regulatory requirements. In addition, we are permitted under the terms of our debt agreements to incur additional indebtedness that may restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends. Under Delaware law, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of our surplus, as calculated in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law, or, if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. To the extent we do not have adequate surplus or net profits, we will be prohibited from paying dividends. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for holders to resell our common stock when they want or at prices that they find attractive. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • changes in market conditions; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; • changes in the economy and the financial markets; • departures of key personnel; • changes in governmental regulations; and • geopolitical conditions, such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. In addition, in recent years, global stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons often unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Future issuances of our common stock will dilute the ownership interests of stockholders and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could materially and adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The domestic and worldwide capital and credit markets have experienced and are experiencing significant volatility, disruptions and dislocations with respect to price and credit availability. There is continued uncertainty as to if and when the capital and credit markets will improve. Should we need additional funds or to refinance our existing indebtedness, we may not be able to obtain such additional funds. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity are cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior credit facility. In the event these resources do not satisfy our liquidity needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. In late 2008, Lehman Brothers, a 6.5% participant in our credit facility, filed for bankruptcy and stopped funding its share of our revolver borrowings. As Lehman Brothers is a defaulting lender, we are no longer able to draw upon their pro-rata portion of the revolver commitment. As of December 31, 2009, we had drawn $0.7 million of the $10 million applicable to Lehman Brothers. As such, Lehman Brothers’ remaining $9.3 million commitment has not been included in our availability under our credit facility. It is uncertain whether a new lender will purchase Lehman Brothers’ interest in our senior credit facility and fund the shortfall. In addition, there can be no assurance that other lenders will continue to fund our senior credit facility. If internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The current weakness in the economic environment and other factors could lead to our goodwill and other intangible assets becoming impaired, which may require us to take significant non-cash charges against earnings. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets have been impaired. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets as a result of such analysis would result in a non-cash charge against earnings, which charge could materially adversely affect our reported net income and our stock price. We test goodwill annually for impairment in the third quarter of each year, or more frequently should circumstances dictate. A significant and sustained decline in the our future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the economic environment, slower growth rates or our stock price falling below our net book value per share for a sustained period could result in the need to perform additional impairment analysis in future periods. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets is necessary, then we would be required to record a non-cash charge against earnings, which, in turn, could have a material adverse affect on our reported net income and the book value of our stockholders’ equity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Table of Contents 