Item 1A. Risk Factors. PAETEC’s business, operating results, financial condition and prospects are subject to a variety of significant risks, many of which are beyond PAETEC’s control. The following is a description of some of the important risk factors that may cause PAETEC’s actual results in future periods to differ substantially from those the company currently expects or seeks. Deterioration in the global economy has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on PAETEC’s business. PAETEC believes that the financial and economic pressures faced by its business customers in the current environment of diminished consumer spending, corporate downsizing and tightened credit have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on billable minutes of use and on customer attrition rates. These pressures also have resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased customer demands for price reductions in connection with contract renewals. If PAETEC cannot continue to interconnect with and obtain key network elements and special access services from some of its primary competitors on acceptable terms, it may not be able to offer its voice and data services on a profitable basis, if at all. PAETEC will not be able to provide its voice and data services on a profitable basis, if at all, unless it is able to continue to interconnect with and obtain key network elements and special access services from some of PAETEC’s primary competitors on acceptable terms. To offer voice and data services in a market, PAETEC must interconnect its network with the network of the incumbent carrier in that market. This relationship is governed by interconnection agreements between the incumbent carrier and PAETEC that are based on provisions of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the “Telecom Act”) obligating incumbent carriers to interconnect with competitive carriers and provide them with access to various elements of the incumbent’s network on an unbundled basis at cost-based prices. In February 2011, the FCC asked in a notice of proposed rulemaking whether and how it should encourage carriers to transition to Internet Protocol, or “IP,” interconnection, and how IP interconnection fits within existing legal and technical frameworks. To the extent that the FCC determines that IP interconnection between PAETEC and incumbent carriers is not governed by the Telecom Act, PAETEC’s ability to interconnect and exchange traffic with incumbent carriers on reasonable rates, terms, and conditions could be adversely affected. Additional changes in law or regulation that limit PAETEC’s ability to use key network elements of the incumbent carrier may have an adverse impact on the company’s ability to serve its end-user customers. PAETEC must interconnect with and lease from incumbent carriers “last mile” facilities, which for services offered to PAETEC’s business customers, include special access digital T1 transmission lines and unbundled network element, or “UNE,” digital T1 transmission lines and other elements. To serve Cavalier’s consumer customers that purchase basic telephony services or digital subscriber line services, the last mile facilities include DS0 and 2-wire UNE loops. Access to last mile special access digital T1 transmission lines is governed by each incumbent local exchange carrier’s special access tariffs or contract tariffs. These tariffs can be changed and the prices for the services increased. Interconnection agreements can be terminated or expire and thereby require renegotiation and renewal. Current FCC rules permit the regional Bell operating companies, or “RBOCs,” to retire unilaterally without any regulatory oversight last mile copper loop facilities that PAETEC has used historically to reach its customers and, after its acquisition of Cavalier, now also uses to reach many of its new customers served by DS0 and 2-wire UNE loops. As incumbent carriers replace copper facilities with fiber loop facilities that the FCC has declared are not subject to unbundling obligations for serving consumer and very small business customers, such carriers may be able to eliminate PAETEC’s access to last mile facilities that it requires. Several competitive broadband carriers, including PAETEC, have petitioned the FCC to change the rules governing copper loop retirement to protect access to these last mile facilities, but the FCC has not yet made any decision on the petition. 23 Table of Contents Revised FCC policy or rules governing intercarrier compensation could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC’s operating results. Adoption of significant changes in policy or rules governing intercarrier compensation by the FCC and the time frame over which changes are to be implemented could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC’s collection and payment of reciprocal compensation and access fees. Intercarrier compensation, including exchange access and reciprocal compensation, currently is the subject of several ongoing proceedings before the FCC that are intended to reform the way in which carriers and service providers pay other carriers and providers for the use of their respective networks. In February 2011, the FCC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking in which it proposed some initial changes to the rules governing intercarrier compensation, and more generally proposed significant reforms to intercarrier compensation over a number of years. The initial proposed reforms would clarify specific calling party information that all service providers are to attach to traffic to ensure that all existing traffic may be billed and to clarify the applicable intercarrier compensation rate for interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol traffic. Additionally, the FCC proposed rules to reduce access rates a service provider may charge when it chooses to directly or indirectly share access revenues with a third party that causes a large amount of traffic to originate or terminate through that service provider’s network. Additionally, in the long term the FCC has proposed to reduce or eliminate intercarrier compensation and requested comment on the timing, speed, and sequencing of how to reduce current rates for categories of traffic that are subject to different compensation rates today. Given the breadth of questions on which the FCC seeks comment, there is no clear indication as to how the FCC will modify rules governing intercarrier compensation. PAETEC’s business is subject to a variety of risks based on its dependence on regulations that continue to change. Most of the network services and carrier services that PAETEC provides are subject to regulation and may be adversely affected by regulatory developments at the federal, state and local levels. For example, the regulations can affect the types of services PAETEC may offer, the rates PAETEC is permitted to charge for its services and for the use of its network by other carriers, the manner in which PAETEC may bill its customers and the rates PAETEC must pay others for their services and for the use of their networks. Services offered to residential customers and small business customers typically are subject to more extensive regulation than services offered to medium-sized and large business customers, and some sales techniques such as telemarketing typically used to market services to consumers and very small business customers are subject to regulations that do not apply to service provided through direct or agent sales channels. In addition, the regulations may impose specific operational or compliance requirements related to the protection of customer proprietary network information, capability to associate a physical address with a calling party’s telephone number, or cooperation with law enforcement officials engaged in lawful communication interception or monitoring activities. All of these requirements may reduce the revenue PAETEC generates from its operating activities or increase its operating costs. Federal and state regulations also determine the level of contribution payments PAETEC must make to the federal Universal Service Fund and other federal and state telecommunications subsidy programs, as well as the terms under which it may use any rights-of-way necessary for the operation of its business. If PAETEC fails to comply with applicable regulations, or if the regulations change in a manner adverse to PAETEC, its business and operating results may suffer. If PAETEC is required to reduce the prices it charges for some or all of its network services, PAETEC’s profitability may be negatively affected and its ability to continue to generate positive cash flows from operations may be diminished. PAETEC may be required to reduce the prices it charges for some or all of its network services, which could adversely affect its profit margins and its ability to generate positive cash flows from operations, for the following reasons: • the incumbent carriers in the markets PAETEC serves already offer a bundle of local, long distance and data services that is the same as or similar to, and in some cases more robust than, the bundle of services that PAETEC offers; 24 Table of Contents • PAETEC’s current and potential customers are increasingly using Voice over Internet Protocol, or “VoIP,” which could reduce or eliminate long distance revenues generated by those customers; • Cavalier’s residential service offering competes with consumer wireless services and providers such as Vonage Holdings Corp., magicjack, LP, Google Inc., Skype Inc. and cable companies that use IP technology, all of which offer services using either their private IP networks or the public Internet to access their customers; • the mergers between AT&T Inc. and SBC Communications, Inc., between MCI, Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc., and between AT&T and BellSouth Corporation, as well as the proposed merger between CenturyLink, Inc. and Qwest Corporation, provide, or are expected to provide, these carriers with significant operating efficiencies and substantially greater marketing, financial and technical resources as they compete with PAETEC; • regulatory authorities generally have decreased their oversight of incumbent carriers, including wholesale obligations of these carriers, and from time to time are asked to forbear from applying a range of regulations to incumbent carriers, which may increase the benefits these companies obtain from their longstanding customer relationships and facilitate their ability to reduce prices for local and other network services by offsetting those reductions with revenue or profits generated by unrelated businesses, products or services; • states, or the FCC, if it elects to preempt state jurisdiction, may impose limits on intrastate access rate levels that competitive carriers such as PAETEC may charge interexchange carriers when providing switched access services on intrastate long distance traffic; and • regulatory authorities have permitted incumbent carriers to exercise pricing flexibility in setting the rates they charge for some of the network services that PAETEC also provides, rather than requiring these incumbent carriers to charge set rates. Industry consolidation and realignment may increase PAETEC’s costs. Before their respective mergers, AT&T and MCI offered some network services and elements in competition with the incumbent carriers, including high-speed circuits (DS1 and DS3 and OCN), interoffice transport and last mile access loops to some premises. The mergers between AT&T and SBC and between AT&T and BellSouth have increased the cost of the high-speed circuits that PAETEC leases to connect its customers to PAETEC’s switching equipment. The merger between MCI and Verizon also could increase the cost of similar high-speed circuits in the Verizon region by reducing the number of providers that offer those high-speed circuits. PAETEC also may incur increased circuit costs in portions of the Qwest region, where these large incumbents may not have a significant presence. Such a development could decrease the competitive pressure on other carriers to maintain low rates for these circuits. The expansion of operations of medium-sized incumbent carriers into markets served by PAETEC, either through merger or the sale of exchanges by an RBOC to a smaller incumbent carrier, may negatively affect PAETEC’s operations if the non-RBOC incumbent carrier has less sophisticated systems and more costly terms for interconnection and access to last mile facilities. As a result of its proposed acquisition of Qwest announced in April 2010, CenturyLink will become the incumbent local exchange carrier in the existing Qwest 14-state region. In its filings to secure regulatory approval of the transaction, CenturyLink has not agreed to use the legacy Qwest operational support systems after 30 months following the transaction closing date. If CenturyLink subsequently attempts to change the existing Qwest operational support systems to significantly less advanced systems, such a change would negatively affect PAETEC’s ability to serve its existing customers and obtain new customers, and would increase PAETEC’s operating costs. PAETEC’s operating performance will suffer if it is not offered competitive rates for the access services PAETEC needs to provide its long distance services. PAETEC depends on other telecommunications companies to originate and terminate a significant portion of the long distance traffic initiated by PAETEC’s network services customers. Access charges historically have 25 Table of Contents made up a significant percentage of the overall cost associated with the provision of long distance service by PAETEC. If the volume of long distance traffic PAETEC carries remains substantial, its operating performance will suffer if it is not offered these access services at rates that are substantially equivalent to the rates charged to its competitors or that otherwise do not enable it to have profitable pricing of its long distance services. PAETEC’s customer churn rate may increase, which could have an adverse effect on PAETEC’s revenues. Higher customer “churn,” or attrition, rates could adversely impact PAETECs revenue growth, while a sustained or significant growth in the churn rate could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC’s financial condition. Customer churn occurs when a customer discontinues service with PAETEC either voluntarily, such as when a customer switches to a competitor, or involuntarily, such as when a customer goes out of business. Changes in the economy, increased competition from other providers, the types of customers PAETEC serves, or issues with PAETEC’s service quality could increase the company’s customer churn rate. PAETEC anticipates that lower prices offered by PAETEC’s competitors may contribute to greater customer churn. In addition, the churn rate may increase because the rate of attrition of small business and residential customers, many of which PAETEC acquired through its acquisition of Cavalier, is traditionally higher than the attrition rate for larger enterprise customers. If PAETEC does not compete effectively in the highly competitive market for network services, it could lose customers and revenue and may face more difficulties as it expands in existing markets and enters new markets. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive, particularly with the advent of new technologies replacing traditional public switched telecommunications networks in favor of services transmitted over the Internet. This increased level of competition could diminish PAETEC’s market share and affect PAETEC’s ability to expand PAETEC’s business. PAETEC will compete with current and potential market entrants, including: • AT&T, Qwest, Verizon and CenturyLink, which are the large, former monopoly local telephone companies and their successors; • other competitive carriers, competitive access providers, Internet service providers and stand-alone VoIP providers; and • for consumer services offered by Cavalier, wireless services providers such as Vonage, magicjack, Google and Skype, and cable companies. Many of the competitors identified above have significantly greater market presence, engineering and marketing capabilities, and financial, technological and personnel resources than PAETEC. Additionally, some of these competitors are currently subject to substantially less regulation than competitive and incumbent carriers and claim to be exempt from a number of taxes and regulatory charges that PAETEC is required to pay. As a result, PAETEC’s competitors may be able to develop and expand their network infrastructures and service offerings more efficiently or more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily, and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than PAETEC. Changes in technology, service offerings and customer preferences could affect PAETEC’s ability to compete in the marketplace for telecommunications and information services. PAETEC faces rapid and significant changes in technology. PAETEC’s ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers will be impaired if PAETEC is unable to deliver new technologies and services that have significant customer acceptance, to adopt those new technologies and offer those new services in a timely 26 Table of Contents and effective manner, and to compete successfully against other service providers that introduce the same or similar new technologies and offer substantially similar new services. The telecommunications industry has changed significantly over the past several years and is continuing to evolve rapidly. Emerging technologies and services, such as VoIP applications, broadband services and advanced wireless offerings, are altering the economic conditions under which the telecommunications and information services industry operates. New technologies also could lead to the development of new, more convenient and cost-effective services. In addition, the preferences and requirements of customers are rapidly changing. For example, telecommunications customers are increasingly using wireless forms of communication, such as handheld Internet-access devices and mobile phones. The use of wireless communications has resulted in a decline in the volume of voice traffic carried by traditional wireline telecommunications networks and likely has resulted in a decrease in the average minutes of use generated by customers of wireline communications services providers, including PAETEC. In addition, a significant percentage of residential customers in the United States have stopped subscribing to any landline telephone service and rely exclusively on wireless services, which PAETEC currently does not offer. PAETEC expects these trends to continue. The development and offering of new services in response to new technologies or consumer demands may require PAETEC to increase its capital expenditures significantly. For instance, PAETEC may be required to convert its existing network to a network using more advanced technology. If PAETEC is unable successfully to install or operate new network equipment or convert its network, or if the technology choices PAETEC makes prove to be incorrect, ineffective or unacceptably costly, PAETEC may not be able to compete effectively. In addition, new technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws, and, therefore, may be available only to PAETEC’s competitors. If PAETEC does not successfully implement its acquisition strategy, its acquisition of other businesses could harm PAETEC’s results of operations and financial condition. As part of PAETEC’s growth strategy, PAETEC seeks to supplement internal expansion through targeted acquisitions. PAETEC is subject to various risks in connection with any acquisitions or series of acquisitions, including the risks that PAETEC: • may be unable to realize anticipated cost savings or operating efficiencies, to retain skilled management, technical, sales and back office personnel of acquired companies, to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout all of its acquired companies, or to manage successfully the risks associated with its entry into new geographical, customer or product markets in which it has little or no experience; • may suffer adverse developments in its relationships with vendors, face brand awareness issues related to the acquired assets or customers, be forced to limit the attention it can devote to any one acquired company, and suffer disruption of its ongoing business operations as a result of its acquisition and integration activities; • may encounter resistance by customers of acquired companies to PAETEC’s marketing programs, pricing levels or services and may not successfully incorporate the services of acquired businesses into PAETEC’s package of service offerings or successfully integrate the network equipment, billing and operating support systems of acquired businesses; and • may experience difficulties in evaluating the historical or future financial performance of the acquired companies. Even if acquired companies eventually contribute to an improvement in PAETEC’s operating results or financial condition, the acquisitions may adversely affect PAETEC’s operating results and financial condition in the short term. PAETEC’s operating results may decrease as a result of transaction-related expenses PAETEC records for the period in which it completes an acquisition. PAETEC’s operating results may be further reduced by the higher operating and administrative expenses PAETEC may incur in the periods immediately following an acquisition as PAETEC integrates the acquired business into its operations. 27 Table of Contents Any significant impairment of PAETEC’s goodwill would lead to a decrease in PAETEC’s assets and a reduction in its net operating performance. At December 31, 2010, PAETEC had goodwill of approximately $439.6 million, which constituted approximately 21.9% of PAETEC’s total assets at that date. If PAETEC makes changes in its business strategy or if market or other conditions adversely affect its business operations, PAETEC may be forced to record an impairment charge, which would lead to a decrease in the company’s assets and reduction in net operating performance. For 2008, PAETEC recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $355.0 million. PAETEC tests goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, PAETEC is required to record an impairment change for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill in the period in which the determination is made. The testing of goodwill for impairment requires PAETEC to make significant estimates about the future performance and cash flows of the company, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in underlying business operations, future reporting unit operating performance, existing or new product market acceptance, changes in competition, or changes in technologies. Any changes in key assumptions, or actual performance compared with those assumptions, about PAETEC’s business and its future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value of one or more reporting units, and result in an impairment charge. Adverse developments in the credit and capital markets may negatively affect PAETEC’s ability to raise additional capital. Adverse conditions in the debt security and syndicated loan markets, which have significantly reduced the availability of corporate credit, are continuing to affect the global financial system and equity markets. PAETEC’s ability to access the debt and equity markets may be restricted at a time when it would like, or need, to access such markets. Such reduced access could have an adverse effect on PAETEC’s flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Further, the disruptions in the financial markets have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on the market value of PAETEC’s common stock, which could make it more difficult or costly for the company to raise capital through an offering of its equity securities. PAETEC’s significant level of debt and interest payment obligations may limit its ability to compete. As of March 1, 2011, PAETEC had a total of approximately $1,471 million in aggregate principal amount outstanding of indebtedness. This substantial level of indebtedness may have important consequences. For example, it may: • make it more difficult for PAETEC to satisfy its financial obligations; • require PAETEC to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit PAETEC’s ability to obtain additional financing to expand its business or alleviate liquidity constraints, as a result of financial and other restrictive covenants in its indebtedness; • limit PAETEC’s ability to pursue its acquisition strategy; • increase PAETEC’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit PAETEC’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in PAETEC’s business and the industry in which PAETEC operates; and • place PAETEC at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies that have less indebtedness. Covenants under PAETEC’s debt agreements may restrict its future operations. PAETEC’s senior secured credit facilities and notes indentures impose operating and financial restrictions that limit PAETEC’s discretion on some business matters, which could make it more difficult for PAETEC to 28 Table of Contents expand, finance its operations and engage in other business activities that may be in its interest. These restrictions include compliance with or maintenance of a maximum leverage ratio under PAETEC’s credit facilities, and will limit the ability of PAETEC and its subsidiaries to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase PAETEC’s capital stock, create restrictions on dividend and other payments to PAETEC from its subsidiaries, issue or sell stock of subsidiaries, and make investments or repay subordinated indebtedness; and • engage in sale-leaseback transactions, sell assets, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, engage in a merger or consolidation, or sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of PAETEC’s assets. PAETEC may incur indebtedness in addition to the foregoing indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness it may incur in the future may subject PAETEC to similar or even more restrictive conditions. If PAETEC is unable to raise additional capital, its ability to expand its business and to meet its obligations will be limited. The development and expansion of PAETEC’s network will require substantial capital investment. If PAETEC chooses to accelerate the expansion of its business, PAETEC will require additional capital. PAETEC also may require additional capital to fund payments of its indebtedness as an increasing amount of such indebtedness becomes due and payable. If PAETEC cannot successfully obtain additional equity or debt financing for necessary purposes on acceptable terms, PAETEC could be at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with significant capital or the ability to raise significant capital for expansion. The terms of any financing PAETEC does obtain may be burdensome to PAETEC. If PAETEC does not continue to attract and retain qualified personnel and independent sales agents or retain its key management, PAETEC may not be able to execute its business plan. PAETEC faces competition for qualified personnel, including management, technical and sales personnel. PAETEC also relies on a large number of independent sales agents to market and sell PAETEC’s services. If PAETEC is unable to attract and retain experienced and motivated personnel, including a large and effective direct sales force, a substantial number of independent sales agents, and qualified information technology and other back office personnel, PAETEC may not be able to obtain new customers or effectively service existing customers, or sell sufficient amounts of service to execute PAETEC’s business plan. Additionally, the loss of key management personnel could impair PAETEC’s ability to implement its acquisition integration plan and execute its business strategy, which could hinder PAETEC’s ability to sustain profitable operations. Failure to obtain and maintain necessary permits and rights-of-way could interfere with PAETEC’s network infrastructure and operations. To obtain and maintain rights-of-way and similar rights and easements needed to install, operate and maintain fiber optic cable and its other network elements, PAETEC must negotiate and manage agreements with state highway authorities, local governments, transit authorities, local telephone companies and other utilities, railroads, long distance carriers and other parties. The failure to obtain or maintain any rights-of-way could interfere with PAETEC’s operations, interfere with its network infrastructure and adversely affect PAETEC’s business. For example, if PAETEC loses access to a right-of-way, it may need to spend significant sums to remove and relocate its facilities. PAETEC and other industry participants are frequently involved in disputes over issues that, if decided adversely to PAETEC, could harm PAETEC’s financial and operational prospects. PAETEC anticipates that it will continue to be subject to risks associated with the resolution of various disputes, lawsuits, arbitrations and proceedings affecting PAETEC’s business. The deregulation of the 29 Table of Contents telecommunications industry, the implementation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the evolution of telecommunications infrastructure from time-division multiplexing to Internet Protocol, and the distress of many carriers in the telecommunications industry as a result of continued competitive factors and financial pressures have resulted in the involvement of numerous industry participants, including PAETEC, in disputes, lawsuits, proceedings and arbitrations before state and federal regulatory commissions, private arbitration organizations such as the American Arbitration Association, and courts over many issues that will be important to PAETEC’s financial and operational success. These issues include the interpretation and enforcement of existing interconnection agreements and tariffs, the terms of new interconnection agreements, operating performance obligations, intercarrier compensation, treatment of different categories of traffic (for example, traffic originated or terminated on wireless networks or VoIP), the jurisdiction of traffic for intercarrier compensation purposes, the wholesale services and facilities available to PAETEC, the prices PAETEC will pay for those services and facilities, and the regulatory treatment of new technologies and services. PAETEC’s business could suffer if third parties successfully claim that PAETEC has infringed their intellectual property rights. The dependence of the telecommunications industry on proprietary technology has resulted in increasingly frequent litigation based on allegations of the infringement of patents and other intellectual property. PAETEC may be subject to litigation to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Regardless of its merits, any intellectual property litigation could be time-consuming and costly and could divert management’s time and attention from PAETEC’s business operations. If PAETEC is unable to maintain or enhance its back office information systems, PAETEC may not be able to increase its revenue as planned or to compete effectively. Sophisticated back office information systems are vital to PAETEC’s revenue growth and PAETEC’s ability to monitor costs, bill customers, initiate, implement and track customer orders, and achieve operating efficiencies. To increase revenue, PAETEC must select products and services offered by third-party vendors and efficiently integrate those products and services into PAETEC’s existing back office operations. PAETEC may not successfully implement these products, services and systems on a timely basis, and PAETEC’s systems may fail to perform as the company expects. A failure or delay in the expected performance of PAETEC’s back office systems, or a failure or delay in effectively integrating the back office systems of acquired companies with PAETEC’s back office systems, could slow the pace of PAETEC’s expected revenue growth or harm PAETEC’s competitiveness by adversely affecting PAETEC’s service quality, which could lead to a loss of existing customers or a failure to attract and retain new customers. PAETEC’s business could suffer similar harm if incumbent local exchange carriers are permitted under applicable regulation to modify or degrade substantially any existing operational support systems that are used by PAETEC’s back office systems to order network elements or other services, correct service problems, and bill customers. Network failures or system breaches could cause delays or adversely affect PAETEC’s service quality, which may cause it to lose customers and revenue. In operating its network, PAETEC must maintain connections for, and manage, a large number of customers and a large quantity of traffic at high speeds. Any failure or perceived failure to achieve or maintain high-speed data transmission could significantly reduce demand for PAETEC’s services and adversely affect PAETEC’s operating results. In the past, PAETEC has experienced outages, such as temporary switch outages, that have prevented it from providing uninterrupted services to some of its customers. Such outages have resulted in lost revenue and could cause PAETEC to lose customers. In the future, PAETEC may experience similar or more severe outages or other network failures or breaches. Computer viruses, break-ins, human error, natural disasters and other problems also may disrupt PAETEC’s network. The network security and stability measures PAETEC 30 Table of Contents implements may be circumvented in the future or otherwise fail to prevent the disruption of PAETEC’s services. The costs and resources required to eliminate computer viruses and other security problems may result in interruptions, delays or cessation of services to PAETEC’s customers, which could result in reduced demand for PAETEC’s services, decrease PAETEC’s revenue and slow PAETEC’s planned expansion. If PAETEC’s network or other ground facilities are damaged by natural catastrophes or terrorism, PAETEC’s ability to provide services may be interrupted and the quality of PAETEC’s services may be adversely affected. A major earthquake, hurricane, tornado, fire, terrorist attack on the United States, or other catastrophic event could damage PAETEC’s network, network operations centers, central offices or corporate headquarters. Such an event could interrupt PAETEC’s services, adversely affect service quality and harm PAETEC’s business. PAETEC does not have replacement or redundant facilities that it can use to provide alternative means of service to all customers or under every circumstance in the event of a catastrophic event. Any damage to PAETEC’s network could result in degradation of PAETEC’s service for some customers and could result in complete loss of service in affected areas. Future sales of PAETEC’s common stock in the public market could lower the price of PAETEC common stock and impair PAETEC’s ability to raise funds in future securities offerings. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of PAETEC common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of PAETEC common stock and could make it more difficult for PAETEC to raise funds through a public offering of its equity securities. PAETEC stockholders with rights under existing registration rights agreements will have the benefit, subject to limitations and qualifications, to registration rights with respect to their PAETEC common stock that would permit the sale of such common stock in the public market. If PAETEC fails to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting or fails to implement any required changes, PAETEC’s ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could increase its operating costs and adversely affect its ability to operate its business. PAETEC is required to provide annual management assessments of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting and to provide reports by PAETEC’s independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Ensuring that PAETEC has adequate internal control over financial reporting so that PAETEC can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort. Implementing any required changes to PAETEC’s internal controls may require modifications to PAETEC’s existing accounting systems or the engagement of additional accounting personnel. Any failure to maintain adequate internal controls, or the inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase PAETEC’s operating costs and impair PAETEC’s ability to operate its business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 