Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of our operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We are dependent upon senior management personnel for our future success, and if we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel or if we lose any member of our senior management team, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed. We depend on the members of our senior management as well as other key personnel for the identification, final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. These employees have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. Our future success will depend on the continued service of our senior management team and our Board of Directors. The departure of any of the members of our senior management, or a significant number of our senior personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. As a result, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities will compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make in prospective portfolio companies. We will compete with a large number of private equity firms as well as other BDCs, investment funds, investment banks and other sources of financing, including traditional financial services companies, such as commercial banks and finance companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. This may enable some of our competitors to make commercial loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we typically offer. We may lose prospective portfolio companies if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we do match our competitors’ pricing, terms or structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit losses. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and build their market shares. Furthermore, many of our potential competitors have greater experience operating under, or are not subject to, the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC. As a result of this competition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and take advantage of attractive investment opportunities or that we will be able to fully invest our available capital. If we are not able to compete effectively, our business and financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. There is a risk that we may not make distributions. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders. We may not be able to achieve operating results that will allow us to make distributions at a specific level or to increase the amount of these distributions from time to time. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Also, restrictions and provisions under the Facility may limit our ability to make distributions. If we do not distribute a certain percentage of our income annually, we could fail to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC and we would be subject to corporate level federal income tax. We cannot ensure that we will make distributions at a particular level or at all. 33 Table of Contents Any unrealized losses we experience on our loan portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income available for distribution. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at the fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments will be recorded as unrealized depreciation. Any unrealized losses in our loan portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company’s inability to meet its repayment obligations to us with respect to the affected loans. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available for distribution in future periods. We will be exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. General interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest spreads on new investments could also have an adverse impact on our net interest income. An increase in interest rates could decrease the value of any investments we hold which earn fixed interest rates, including mezzanine securities and high-yield bonds, and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the value of our common stock. If we incur additional debt, it could increase the risk of investing in our Company. As of December 31, 2006, we had no outstanding indebtedness. However, we expect, in the future, to borrow from, and issue senior debt securities to, banks, insurance companies and other lenders, including pursuant to the Facility that we entered into on February 14, 2007. Lenders will have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our stockholders, and we may grant a security interest in our assets in connection with our borrowings. In the case of a liquidation event, those lenders would receive proceeds before our stockholders. In addition, borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in our securities. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to decline more than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our revenue in excess of interest expense on our borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage. Any decrease in our revenue would cause our net income to decline more than it would have had we not borrowed funds and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions on our common stock. Our ability to service any debt that we incur will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. As a BDC, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. If this ratio declines below 200%, we may not be able to incur additional debt and may need to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is disadvantageous to do so, and we may not be able to make distributions. Risks Related to Our Investments Our investments may be risky, and investors could lose all or part of their investments in the Company. We invest primarily in senior secured term loans, mezzanine debt and selected equity investments issued by middle market companies. Senior Secured Loans. When we extend senior secured term loans, we will generally take a security interest in the available assets of these portfolio companies, including the equity interests of their subsidiaries, which we 34 Table of Contents expect to help mitigate the risk that we will not be repaid. However, there is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital, and, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to exercise our remedies. Mezzanine Debt. Our mezzanine debt investments will generally be subordinated to senior loans and will generally be unsecured. This may result in an above average amount of risk and volatility or loss of principal. These investments may entail additional risks that could adversely affect our investment returns. To the extent interest payments associated with such debt are deferred, such debt will be subject to greater fluctuations in value based on changes in interest rates and such debt could subject us to phantom income. Since we will generally not receive any cash prior to maturity of the debt, the investment will be of greater risk. Equity Investments. We expect to make selected equity investments. In addition, when we invest in senior secured loans or mezzanine debt, we may acquire warrants. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of such equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Risks Associated with Middle Market Companies. Investments in middle market companies also involve a number of significant risks, including: • limited financial resources and being unable to meet their obligations, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing on any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • dependence on management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • less predictable operating results, being parties to litigation from time to time, engaging in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and requiring substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; • difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs; and • generally less publicly available information about their businesses, operations and financial condition. Many of our portfolio investments will be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. As a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of our investments. Our investments are expected to consist primarily of securities issued by privately-held companies, the fair value of which is not readily determinable. In addition, we are not permitted to maintain a general reserve for anticipated loan losses. Instead, we are required by the 1940 Act to specifically value each investment and record 35 Table of Contents an unrealized gain or loss for any asset that we believe has increased or decreased in value. We value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors, based on the recommendations of the Valuation Committee of the Board of Directors. These valuations are initially prepared by our management and reviewed by our Valuation Committee which utilizes its best judgment in arriving at the fair value of these securities. However, the Board of Directors retains ultimate authority as to the appropriate valuation of each investment. Where appropriate, our Board of Directors may utilize the services of an independent valuation firm to aid it in determining fair value. The types of factors that may be considered in valuing our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly-traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private investments and private companies, are inherently uncertain and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would be assessed if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. Our portfolio is and may continue to be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or by a downturn in the particular industry. Our portfolio is and may continue to be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries. At December 31, 2006, our largest investment, our 100% equity interests in Katonah Debt Advisors, represented approximately 15% of our investments at fair value. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and while we are not targeting any specific industries, our investments could be concentrated in relatively few industries. Additionally, a downturn in any particular industry in which we are invested could also significantly impact the aggregate returns we realize. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions may also decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. Defaults by our portfolio companies could harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other debt holders could lead to defaults and, potentially, acceleration of the time when the loans are due and foreclosure on its secured assets. Such events could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt that we hold and the value of any equity securities we own. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. When we are a debt or minority equity investor in a portfolio company, which we expect will generally be the case, we may not be in a position to control the entity, and its management may make decisions that could decrease the value of our investment. We anticipate that most of our investments will be either debt or minority equity investments in our portfolio companies. Therefore, we will be subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business 36 Table of Contents decisions with which we disagree, and the shareholders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. In addition, we will generally not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity. We are subject to the risk that the investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. When this occurs, we will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elects to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We invest primarily in debt securities issued by our portfolio companies. In some cases portfolio companies will be permitted to have other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders thereof are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company. Investments in equity securities involve a substantial degree of risk. We may purchase common stock and other equity securities, including warrants. Although equity securities have historically generated higher average total returns than fixed-income securities over the long term, equity securities have also experienced significantly more volatility in those returns and in recent years have significantly underperformed relative to fixed-income securities. The equity securities we acquire may fail to appreciate and may decline in value or become worthless, and our ability to recover our investment will depend on our portfolio company’s success. Investments in equity securities involve a number of significant risks, including the risk of further dilution as a result of additional issuances, inability to access additional capital and failure to pay current distributions. Investments in preferred securities involve special risks, such as the risk of deferred distributions, credit risk, illiquidity and limited voting rights. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We expect to invest in securities issued by private companies. These securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or otherwise be less liquid than publicly-traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. As a result, we do not expect to achieve liquidity in our investments in the near-term. Our investments are usually subject to contractual or legal restrictions on resale or are otherwise 37 Table of Contents illiquid because there is usually no established trading market for such investments. The illiquidity of most of our investments may make it difficult for us to dispose of them at a favorable price, and, as a result, we may suffer losses. If we incur indebtedness or issue senior securities, we will be exposed to additional risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. We may borrow funds or issue senior securities, pursuant to the Facility or other agreements, to make additional investments. With certain limited exceptions, we are only allowed to borrow amounts or issue senior securities such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least 200% after such borrowing or issuance. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our management’s and our Board of Directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. There is no assurance that a leveraging strategy will be successful. Leverage involves risks and special considerations of stockholders, including: • a likelihood of greater volatility of net asset value and market price of our common stock than a comparable portfolio without leverage; • exposure to increased risk of loss if we incur debt or issue senior securities to finance investments because a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on our returns and therefore the value of our common stock than if we did not use leverage; • that the covenants contained in the documents governing the Facility or other debt instruments could restrict our operating flexibility. Such covenants may impose asset coverage or investment portfolio composition requirements that are more stringent than those imposed by the 1940 Act and could require us to liquidate investments at an inopportune time; and • that we, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of leverage, including issuance and servicing costs (i.e., interest). Any requirement that we sell assets at a loss to redeem or pay interest or dividends on any leverage, or for other reasons, would reduce our net asset value and also make it difficult for the net asset value to recover. Our Board of Directors, in their judgment, nevertheless may determine to use leverage if they expect that the benefits to our stockholders of maintaining the leveraged position will outweigh the risks. The agreements governing the Facility contain various covenants that, among other things, limit our discretion in operating our business and provide for certain minimum financial covenants. We have entered into the Facility, which is backed by a revolving pool of loans. Under the Facility, we are subject to limitations as to how borrowed funds may be used, including restrictions on geographic and industry concentrations, loan size, payment frequency and status, average life, collateral interests and investment ratings. We are also subject to regulatory restrictions on leverage which may affect the amount of funding that we can obtain under the Facility. The Facility also includes certain requirements relating to portfolio performance, including required minimum portfolio yield and limitations on delinquencies and charge-offs, a violation of which could result in the early amortization of the Facility, limit further advances and, in some cases, result in an event of default. An event of default under the Facility would result, among other things, in termination of the availability of further funds under the Facility and an accelerated maturity date for all amounts outstanding under the Facility, which would likely disrupt our business and, potentially, the portfolio companies whose loans we financed through the Facility. This could reduce our revenues and, by delaying any cash payment allowed to us under the Facility until the lender has been paid in full, reduce our liquidity and cash flow and impair our ability to grow our business and maintain our status as a RIC. If we default under certain provisions of the Facility, the remedies available to the lender may limit our ability to declare dividends. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow funds under the Facility at any particular time or at all. 38 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Operation as a BDC Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates will be restricted. We will be prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and we will generally be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain “joint” transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we will be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person or certain of that person’s affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. As a result of these restrictions, we will be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any portfolio company of a private equity fund managed by Kohlberg & Co. without the prior approval of the SEC. Changes in the laws or regulations governing our business, or changes in the interpretations thereof, and any failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations, could negatively affect the profitability of our operations. Changes in the laws or regulations or the interpretations of the laws and regulations that govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders, could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including our loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply or we might have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we are unable to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC, we will be subject to corporate-level income tax, which will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Provided we qualify for tax treatment as a RIC, we can generally avoid corporate-level federal income taxes on income distributed to our stockholders as dividends. We will not qualify for this pass-through tax treatment, and thus will be subject to corporate-level federal income taxes, if we are unable to comply with the source of income, diversification and distribution requirements contained in the Code, or if we fail to maintain our election to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. If we fail to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC, the resulting taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution to our stockholders and the actual amount of our distributions. As such, our failure to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC would have a material adverse effect on us, the net asset value of our common stock and the total return obtainable from an investment in our common stock. We may, from time to time, organize and conduct the business of our wholly-owned portfolio company, Katonah Debt Advisors, through additional direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries which may, in some cases, be taxable as corporations. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Shares Shares of closed-end investment companies, including BDCs, frequently trade at a discount to their net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at discounts to their net asset values and our stock may also be discounted in the market. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies is separate 39 Table of Contents and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. We cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our net asset value. The risk of loss associated with this characteristic of closed-end investment companies may be greater for investors expecting to sell shares of common stock purchased in the IPO soon after the IPO. In addition, if our common stock trades below its net asset value, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at its market price without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders and our independent directors. Our common stock price may be volatile and may fluctuate substantially. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The liquidity of our common stock may be limited, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • our inability to deploy or invest our capital; • fluctuations in interest rates; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • changes in regulatory policies or tax rules, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs; • loss of RIC tax treatment; • changes in earnings or variations in operating results; • changes in the value of our portfolio; • general economic conditions and trends; and • departure of key personnel. Our principal stockholders may continue to have substantial ownership in us and this could limit other investors’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. In addition, some of our stockholders may have interests in Kohlberg Capital that differ from those of other stockholders. Individuals and entities affiliated with Kohlberg & Co. beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 19% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. James A. Kohlberg, the Vice-Chairman of our Board of Directors, is a founder and the Chairman of Kohlberg & Co. Christopher Lacovara, who serves as the Chairman of our Board of Directors and Investment Committee, and Samuel P. Frieder, who serves as a member of our Board of Directors and our Investment Committee, are co-managing partners of Kohlberg & Co. Our Board of Directors and our Investment Committee must approve of the acquisition and disposition of our investments. As a result, these individuals may be able to exert influence over our management and policies. Affiliates of Kohlberg & Co. may also acquire additional shares of our equity securities in the future. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our Company, deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our Company or may ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, Mr. Kratzman, who serves on our Investment Committee, is also employed by Katonah Debt Advisors and is compensated, in part, based upon the performance of Katonah Debt Advisors. As a result, Mr. Kratzman may have interests in Katonah Debt Advisors that differ from those of other stockholders of Kohlberg Capital. 40 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 