Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of our operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent upon senior management for our future success, and if we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel or if we lose any member of our senior management team, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed. We depend on the members of our senior management as well as other key personnel for the identification, final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. These employees have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. Our future success depends on the continued service of our senior management team and our Board of Directors. The departure of any of the members of our senior management or a significant number of our senior personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. As a result, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make in prospective portfolio companies. We compete with other BDCs, as well as a large number of investment funds, investment banks and other sources of financing, including traditional financial services companies, such as commercial banks and finance companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. This may enable some of our competitors to make commercial loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we typically offer. We may lose prospective portfolio investments if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we do match our competitors’ pricing, terms or structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit losses. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and build their market shares. Furthermore, many of our potential competitors have greater experience operating under, or are not subject to, the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC. As a result of this competition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and take advantage of attractive investment opportunities or that we will be able to fully invest our available capital. If we are not able to compete effectively, our business and financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Although Kohlberg & Co. has agreed pursuant to the License and Referral Agreement with us to notify us of equity investment opportunities that are presented to Kohlberg & Co. but do not fit the investment profile of Kohlberg & Co. or its affiliates, no such referral to date has resulted in an investment by us or Katonah Debt Advisors and the initial term of the agreement expired on October 31, 2011, and, as a result, Kohlberg & Co. may terminate the agreement at any time in its sole discretion. If we are unable to source investments effectively, we may be unable to achieve our investment objective. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our senior management team’s ability to identify, evaluate, finance and invest in suitable companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our marketing capabilities, our management of the investment process, our ability to provide efficient services and our access to financing sources on acceptable terms. In addition to monitoring the performance of our existing investments, members of our management team and our investment professionals may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. To grow, we need to continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees and to implement computer and 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS other systems capable of effectively accommodating our growth. However, we cannot provide assurance that any such employees will contribute to the success of our business or that we will implement such systems effectively. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is a risk that we may not make distributions. We intend to continue to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders. We may not be able to achieve operating results that will allow us to make distributions at historical or any specific levels or to increase the amount of these distributions from time to time. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, depending on the types of debt and equity securities we have outstanding, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. See “Item 1. Business — Leverage.” Also, restrictions and provisions in our outstanding indebtedness may limit our ability to make distributions. If we do not distribute a certain percentage of our income annually, we could fail to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC and we would be subject to corporate level U.S. federal income tax. Furthermore, in accordance with current IRS guidance, we may make distributions under special circumstances that would allow us to meet our annual RIC distribution requirement for 2009, 2010, and 2011 by distributing shares of our stock in lieu of a significant portion of the cash (or other property other than our stock) that we would otherwise be required to distribute to satisfy such distribution requirement. See “Item 1. Business — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” We cannot ensure that we will make distributions at historical or any other specified levels or at all. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash equal to such income. In accordance with GAAP and the Code, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as contracted non-cash PIK interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. In addition to the cash yields received on our loans, in some instances, certain loans may also include any of the following: end of term payments, exit fees, balloon payment fees or prepayment fees. The increases in loan balances as a result of contracted non-cash PIK arrangements are included in income for the period in which such non-cash PIK interest was received, which is often in advance of receiving cash payment, and are separately identified on our statements of cash flows. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. Any warrants that we receive in connection with our debt investments generally are valued as part of the negotiation process with the particular portfolio company. As a result, a portion of the aggregate purchase price for the debt investments and warrants is allocated to the warrants that we receive. This generally results in “original issue discount” for tax purposes, which we must recognize as ordinary income, increasing the amounts we are required to distribute to qualify as a RIC eligible for pass-through tax treatment. Because such original issue discount income might exceed the amount of cash received in a given year with respect to such investment, we might need to obtain cash from other sources to satisfy such distribution requirements. Other features of the debt instruments that we hold may also cause such instruments to generate original issue discount, resulting in a dividend distribution requirement in excess of current cash received. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. If we are unable to meet these distribution requirements, we will not qualify for tax treatment as a RIC or, even if such distribution requirement is satisfied, we may be subject to tax on the amount that is undistributed. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our assets, raise additional debt or equity securities or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements and avoid tax. See “Item 1. Business — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may incur losses as a result of “first loss” agreements into which we or Katonah Debt Advisors may enter in connection with warehousing credit arrangements which we put in place prior to raising a CLO Fund and pursuant to which we agree to reimburse credit providers for a portion of losses (if any) on warehouse investments. We and Katonah Debt Advisors have in the past entered, and may in the future enter, into “first loss” agreements in connection with warehouse credit lines to be established by Katonah Debt Advisors to fund the initial accumulation of loan investments for future CLO Funds that Katonah Debt Advisors will manage. Such agreements (referred to as “first loss agreements” or “first loss obligations”) frequently relate to (i) losses as a result of individual loan investments being ineligible for purchase by the CLO Fund (typically due to a payment default on such loan) when such fund formation is completed or, (ii) if the CLO Fund has not been completed before the expiration of the warehouse credit line, the loss (if any, and net of any accumulated interest income) on the resale of such loans funded by the warehouse credit line. As a result, we may incur losses if loans and debt obligations that had been purchased in the warehouse facility become ineligible for inclusion in the CLO Fund or if a planned CLO Fund does not close. Any unrealized losses we experience on our loan portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income available for distribution. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at the fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors pursuant to a valuation methodology approved by our Board of Directors. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments will be recorded as unrealized losses. An unrealized loss in our loan portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company’s inability to meet its repayment obligations with respect to the affected loans. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available for distribution in future periods. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results and credit spreads. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including our ability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, our level of expenses, variations in and timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates and spreads. Changes in interest rates may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our securities and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest spreads on new investments could also have an adverse impact on our net interest income. An increase in interest rates could decrease the value of any investments we hold which earn fixed interest rates, including mezzanine securities and high-yield bonds, and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net income. An increase in interest rates due to an increase in credit spreads, regardless of general interest rate fluctuations, could also negatively impact the value of any investments we hold in our portfolio. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the value of our common stock. We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in our securities. We have issued senior securities, and in the future may borrow from, or issue additional senior securities (such as preferred or convertible securities or the senior debt securities) to, banks and other lenders and investors, including debt guaranteed by the Small Business Administration (“SBA”). Subject to prevailing market conditions, we intend to grow our portfolio of 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS assets by raising additional capital, including through the prudent use of leverage available to us. Lenders and holders of such senior securities have fixed dollar claims on our consolidated assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders or any preferred stockholders. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. If the value of our consolidated assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value per share of our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not incurred leverage. Conversely, if the value of our consolidated assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not incurred leverage. Similarly, any increase in our consolidated income in excess of consolidated interest payable on our outstanding indebtedness would cause our net income to increase more than it would had we not incurred leverage, while any decrease in our consolidated income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not incurred leverage. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make common stock dividend payments. There can be no assurance that our leveraging strategy will be successful. As of December 31, 2011, we had $60 million in aggregate principal amount of our 8.75% convertible senior notes due 2016 outstanding. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Our ability to service our debt depends largely on our financial performance and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. The amount of leverage that we employ at any particular time will depend on our management’s and our Board of Directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. On February 24, 2012, the Company incurred additional borrowings totaling $30 million to fund new investments. Such additional borrowings may exacerbate the risks defined above regarding leverage. Our convertible senior notes impose, and additional debt we may incur in the future will likely impose, financial and operating covenants that restrict our business activities, including limitations that could hinder our ability to finance additional loans and investments or to make the distributions required to maintain our status as a RIC. A failure to add new debt facilities or issue additional debt securities or other evidences of indebtedness in lieu of or in addition to existing indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The following table illustrates the effect on return to a holder of our common stock of the leverage created by our use of borrowing at the convertible senior notes interest rate of 8.75% as of December 31, 2011, together with (a) total value of our assets of $248.1 million as of December 31, 2011, (b) $60 million of principal indebtedness outstanding as of December 31, 2011and (c) hypothetical annual returns on our portfolio of minus 15% to plus 15%. Assumed Return on Portfolio (Net of Expenses)(1) -15 % -10 % -5 % 0 % 5 % 10 % 15 % Corresponding Return to Common Stockholders(2) -17 % -12 % -7 % -2 % 3 % 8 % 13 % (1) The assumed portfolio return is required by SEC rules and is not a prediction of, and does not represent, our projected or actual performance. The table also assumes that we will maintain a constant level of leverage. The amount of leverage that we use will vary from time to time. Actual returns may be greater or smaller than those appearing in the table. (2) In order to compute the “Corresponding Return to Common Stockholders,” the “Assumed Return on Portfolio” is multiplied by the total value of our assets of $248.1 million at December 31, 2011to obtain an assumed return to us. From this amount, the interest expense (calculated by multiplying the convertible senior notes interest rate of 8.75% as of December 31, 2011 by the $60 million of principal indebtedness outstanding as of December 31, 2011) is subtracted to determine the return available to stockholders. The return available to stockholders is then divided by the total value of our net assets as of December 31, 2011 to determine the “Corresponding Return to Common Stockholders.” 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to respond to changes in our business. With certain limited exceptions, we are only allowed to borrow amounts or issue senior securities such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least 200% immediately after such borrowing or issuance. As of December 31, 2011, our asset coverage ratio was 401%. The amount of leverage that we employ in the future will depend on our management’s and our Board of Directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. There is no assurance that a leveraging strategy will be successful. As a result of the level of our leverage: • there is a likelihood of greater volatility of net asset value and market price of our common stock than without leverage; • our exposure to risk of loss is greater if we incur debt or issue senior securities to finance investments because a decrease in the value of our investments has a greater negative impact on our returns and, therefore, the value of our common stock than if we did not use leverage; • the decrease in our asset coverage ratio resulting from increased leverage and the covenants contained in documents governing our indebtedness (which may impose asset coverage or investment portfolio composition requirements that are more stringent than those imposed by the 1940 Act) limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry, as a result of which we could be required to liquidate investments at an inopportune time; • we are required to dedicate a portion of our cash flow to interest payments, limiting the availability of cash for dividends and other purposes; and • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired. If we have to sell assets at a loss to redeem or pay interest on our outstanding indebtedness or for other reasons, our net asset value will be reduced and may not fully recover. We cannot be sure that our leverage will not have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available when required or, if available, will be on terms satisfactory to us. Further, even if we are able to obtain additional financing, we may be required to use some or all of the proceeds thereof to repay our outstanding indebtedness. Our stockholders may experience dilution upon the conversion of our convertible senior notes. Our 8.75% convertible senior notes due 2016 are convertible into shares of our common stock at any time prior to the end of business on the business day preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, we will satisfy our conversion obligation by issuing shares of our common stock to the converting holder and, under certain limited circumstances, may elect to deliver cash in lieu of shares otherwise deliverable upon conversion to comply with certain listing standards of The NASDAQ Global Select Market. The current conversion price of the convertible senior is approximately 118.5255 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the convertible senior notes, equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $8.437 per share of our common stock. Our stockholders will experience dilution in their ownership percentage of common stock upon our issuance of common stock on any conversion of the convertible senior notes and any dividends paid on our common stock will also be paid on shares issued on any conversion. If market constraints prevent us from obtaining debt or additional equity capital, our liquidity could be adversely affected, our business prospects could be negatively impacted, we could lose key employees and our operating results could be negatively affected. Recent economic and capital market conditions in the U.S. have resulted in a severe reduction in the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole, and financial services firms in particular. These conditions have constrained us and other companies in the financial services sector, limiting or completely preventing access to markets for debt and equity capital needed to maintain operations, continue investment originations and to grow. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS generally. If we are unable to obtain new debt or additional equity capital, our liquidity may be impacted. If these conditions continue for a prolonged period of time, or worsen in the future, we could lose key employees and our business prospects could be negatively impacted. Even if we are able to incur new debt, we may not be able to do so on favorable terms. In addition, the debt or equity capital that will be available, if at all, may be at a high cost and/or on unfavorable terms and conditions. Equity capital is, and may continue to be, difficult to raise because, subject to some limited exceptions, we are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below NAV per share without stockholder approval. In addition, issuing equity at depressed stock prices can be dilutive to our stockholders. These events and our inability to raise capital have resulted in a reduction in new originations, curtailed our ability to grow and have had a negative impact on our liquidity and operating results. The continued inability to raise additional capital could further constrain our liquidity, negatively impact our business prospects, cause the departure of key employees and negatively impact our operating results. We obtained shareholder approval to sell our common stock at a price below net asset value at our 2011 annual meeting and such approval is effective for a period expiring on June 16, 2012, the one-year anniversary of the date of the shareholder approval. Because we intend to continue to distribute substantially all of our income and net realized capital gains to our stockholders, we will need additional capital to finance our growth. In order to qualify as a RIC, to avoid payment of excise taxes and to minimize or avoid payment of income taxes, we intend to continue to distribute to our stockholders substantially all of our net ordinary income and realized net capital gains except for certain net long-term capital gains (which we may retain, pay applicable income taxes with respect thereto, and elect to treat as deemed distributions to our stockholders). As a BDC, in order to incur new debt, we are generally required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total senior securities, which includes all of our borrowings and any preferred stock we may issue in the future, of at least 200%, as measured immediately after issuance of such security. This requirement limits the amount that we may borrow. Because we will continue to need capital to grow our loan and investment portfolio, this limitation may prevent us from incurring debt and require us to issue additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so. We cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, and debt financings may be restricted by the terms of such borrowings. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to continue to curtail or cease new lending and investment activities, and our NAV could decline. If we sell common stock at a discount to our net asset value per share, stockholders who do not participate in such sale will experience immediate dilution in an amount that may be material. As a BDC, we are generally not permitted to issue equity securities priced below NAV without stockholder approval. We obtained stockholder approval to sell our common stock at a price below NAV at our 2011 annual stockholder meeting and such approval is effective for a period expiring on June 16, 2012, the one-year anniversary of the date of the stockholder approval. We may seek such approval for future periods, including for the one-year period starting at our 2012 annual stockholder meeting. The issuance or sale by us of shares of our common stock at a discount to net asset value poses a risk of dilution to our stockholders. In particular, stockholders who do not purchase additional shares at or below the discounted price in proportion to their current ownership will experience an immediate decrease in NAV per share (as well as in the aggregate NAV of their shares if they do not participate at all). These stockholders will also experience a disproportionately greater decrease in their participation in our earnings and assets and their voting power than the increase we experience in our assets, potential earning power and voting interests from such issuance or sale. In addition, such sales may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades. 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may from time to time expand our business through acquisitions, which could disrupt our business, harm our financial condition and dilute current stockholders’ ownership interests in our Company. We may pursue potential acquisitions of, and investments in, businesses complementary to our business and from time to time engage in discussions regarding such possible acquisitions. For example, in February 2012, we completed the acquisition of Trimaran Advisors, L.L.C. (“Trimaran”). Such acquisition and any other acquisitions we may undertake involve a number of risks, including: • failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we expect; • substantial cash expenditures; • diversion of capital and management attention from operational matters; • our inability to retain key personnel of the acquired businesses; • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; and • the potential disruption and strain on our existing business and resources that could result from our planned growth and continuing integration of our acquisitions. If we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate, and management resources and attention may be diverted from other necessary or valuable activities. Any acquisition, including the Trimaran acquisition, may not result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. If we are unable to integrate or successfully manage any business that we acquire, we may not realize anticipated cost savings, improved efficiencies or revenue growth, which may result in reduced profitability or operating losses. Moreover, acquisitions of businesses may require the issuance of additional equity financing, which may result in dilution of our existing stockholders. Our Board of Directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice (except as required by the 1940 Act) and without stockholder approval. However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a BDC. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our stock. Nevertheless, the effects may adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions. Recent regulatory changes impact the operations of Katonah Debt Advisors and our ownership thereof. Katonah Debt Advisors and its asset manager affiliates (together, the “Advisers”), our wholly-owned asset managers that manage CLO Funds, rely on an exemption from registration as investment advisers set forth in Section 203(b)(3) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the “Advisers Act’), which provides generally that an investment adviser with fewer than 15 clients is not required to register with the SEC (i.e., the “private adviser” exemption). However, as a result of the elimination of the “private adviser” exemption by the Private Fund Investment Advisers Registration Act of 2010, we expect that the Advisers will be required to register as investment advisers under the Advisers Act by March 31, 2012, and in that regard have filed to register as investment advisers with the SEC. Certain provisions of the 1940 Act applicable to BDCs may be interpreted to prohibit BDCs from owning any security issued by or any other interest in the business of a person who is a registered investment adviser. If the 1940 Act were so interpreted, the Company may be in violation of the 1940 Act unless the Commission grants the Company exemptive relief. The Company has applied for this exemptive relief [and the Commission has published notice of its intent to grant the relief](1); however, at this time the relief has not yet been granted and may not be granted on the terms expected. If the Company is not successful in obtaining such exemptive relief before the Advisers are required to register as investment advisers, or at all, then the Company may be in violation of the 1940 Act or the (1) NTD: To be confirmed before filing. 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS Advisers may be in violation of the Advisers Act until the Company is able to obtain the necessary exemptive relief or otherwise resolve the matter. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to obtain the necessary exemptive relief in the timeframe required, or at all. If the Company does receive such exemptive relief from the SEC, it may be subject to conditions that will limit the Company’s or the Advisers’ ability to operate, structure or expand their businesses in the future. In addition, as registered investment advisers, the Advisers may be subject to increased regulatory risks, additional costs and expenses associated with operating as registered investment advisers. Our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation and regulatory proceedings, including those that are currently pending. From time to time, we may be subject to legal actions as well as various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. In any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us and may result in financial liability or an adverse effect on our reputation among investors. We may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. As a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. We are currently parties in ongoing litigation and regulatory proceedings. As described in greater detail in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below, pending proceedings involving us and/or our directors and officers include three purported class action lawsuits filed by our stockholders and an SEC investigation, and a derivative action filed by a shareholder, which has been dismissed and in which the stockholder has appealed, all of which relate to the valuation methodology and procedures used by us to value our investments and the restatement to our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 (and the quarterly periods included in such year) and the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009. While we believe that we have meritorious defenses in these proceedings and that the outcomes should not materially impact us, we anticipate continued elevated legal and related costs as the ultimate outcomes of the matters are uncertain. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal actions and regulatory matters, we cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of any pending matter or, if resolved adversely, the costs associated with any such matter, particularly where the claimant seeks very large or indeterminate damages or where the matter presents novel legal theories, involves a large number of parties or is at a preliminary stage. The resolution of any such matters may be time consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. The resolution of certain pending legal actions or regulatory matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the quarter in which such actions or matters are resolved or a reserve is established. The initial term of the agreement governing our strategic relationship with Kohlberg & Co. expired on October 31, 2011 and such agreement may be terminated. Our strategic relationship with Kohlberg & Co. is governed by the License and Referral Agreement between us and Kohlberg & Co. We believe that we derive substantial benefits from this relationship, including our use of the “Kohlberg” name. The initial term of the agreement expired on October 31, 2011, and, as a result, Kohlberg & Co. may terminate the agreement at any time in its sole discretion. As a result, there is no guarantee that the agreement will not be terminated and that we will continue to benefit from its provisions. If the agreement is terminated, we will not, among other things, be able to use the “Kohlberg” name, which may negatively adversely impact our brand and our business. 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Our Investments Our investments may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We invest primarily in senior secured term loans, mezzanine debt and selected equity investments issued by middle market companies. Secured Loans. When we extend secured term loans, we generally take a security interest (either as a first lien position or as a second lien position) in the available assets of these portfolio companies, including the equity interests of their subsidiaries, which we expect to assist in mitigating the risk that we will not be repaid. However, there is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital, and, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to exercise our remedies. Mezzanine Debt. Our mezzanine debt investments generally are subordinated to senior loans and generally are unsecured. This may result in an above average amount of risk and volatility or loss of principal. These investments may entail additional risks that could adversely affect our investment returns. To the extent interest payments associated with such debt are deferred, such debt is subject to greater fluctuations in value based on changes in interest rates and such debt could subject us to phantom income. Since we generally do not receive any cash prior to maturity of the debt, the investment is of greater risk. Equity Investments. We have made and expect to make selected equity investments. In addition, when we invest in senior secured loans or mezzanine debt, we may acquire warrants in the equity of the portfolio company. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of such equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Risks Associated with Middle Market Companies. Investments in middle market companies also involve a number of significant risks, including: • limited financial resources and inability to meet their obligations, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of our realizing the value of any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • dependence on management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • less predictable operating results, being parties to litigation from time to time, engaging in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence and requiring substantial additional capital expenditures to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; • difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs; and • generally less publicly available information about their businesses, operations and financial condition. 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our portfolio investments for which there is no readily available market, including our investment in Katonah Debt Advisors and our investments in CLO Funds, are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. As a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Our investments consist primarily of securities issued by privately-held companies, the fair value of which is not readily determinable. In addition, we are not permitted to maintain a general reserve for anticipated loan losses. Instead, we are required by the 1940 Act to specifically value each investment and record an unrealized gain or loss for any asset that we believe has increased or decreased in value. We value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors pursuant to a valuation methodology approved by our Board of Directors. These valuations are initially prepared by our management and reviewed by our Valuation Committee, which uses its best judgment in arriving at the fair value of these securities. However, the Board of Directors retains ultimate authority to determine the appropriate valuation for each investment. From time to time, our Board of Directors has used the services of an independent valuation firm to aid it in determining fair value, including in the case of our investments in CLO Funds and in Katonah Debt Advisors. Where applicable, an independent valuation firm provides third-party valuation consulting services, which typically consist of certain limited procedures that we identify and request an independent valuation firm to perform. The types of factors that may be considered in valuing our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly-traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Our investment in Katonah Debt Advisors is carried at fair value, which is determined after taking into consideration a percentage of assets under management and a discounted cash flow model incorporating different levels of discount rates depending on the hierarchy of fees earned (including the likelihood of realization of senior, subordinate and incentive fees) and prospective modeled performance. Such valuation includes an analysis of comparable asset management companies. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private investments and private companies, are inherently uncertain and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would be assessed if a ready market for these securities existed. Our NAV could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our illiquid investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. We are subject to additional risks in light of the restatement of our prior period financial statements. We have previously restated our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 (and the quarterly periods included in such year) as well as the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009. The restatement of our financial statements was due to errors in the application of accounting for the fair value of our illiquid investments and the revenue recognition for certain non-cash PIK investments, which errors impact the amount of unrealized gains (losses) reported for our illiquid investments, which affects the calculation of our net asset value and net income, and also impact net investment income as well as the cost basis and the net change in unrealized appreciation on certain non-cash PIK investments. The error related to fair value measurements was identified through the use and weighting of additional valuation techniques and a broader consideration of secondary market inputs, and with regard to our financial statements for the periods noted above, resulted from the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. This restatement has exposed us to certain legal and regulatory actions described in “Business — Legal Proceedings” below and could expose us to additional legal or regulatory actions. In addition, the defense of any such actions could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions if any such actions are not resolved in our favor. Even if resolved in our favor, such actions could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. We believe that we addressed the material weaknesses through the adoption of the revised valuation procedures and the implementation of a review process in 2010. We may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on the restatement and negative reactions from shareholders and others with whom we do business. 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we may invest a significant portion of our assets in a relatively small number of issuers, which subjects us to a risk of significant loss if any of these issuers defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or as a result of a downturn in the particular industry. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we may invest a significant portion of our assets in a relatively small number of issuers in a limited number of industries. As of December 31, 2011, our largest investment, our 100% equity interest in Katonah Debt Advisors, equaled approximately 17% of the fair value of our investments. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC (as described further in “Item 1. Business — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations”), we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and while we are not targeting any specific industries, relatively few industries may become significantly represented among our investments. In accordance with our current policy, we do not “concentrate” our investments, that is, invest 25% or more of our assets in any particular industry (determined at the time of investment). However, to the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our NAV may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer or a downturn in any particular industry. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Economic recessions or downturns could negatively impact our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions may also decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. Defaults by our portfolio companies could harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other debt holders could lead to defaults and, potentially, acceleration of the time when the loans are due and foreclosure on its secured assets. Such events could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt that we hold and the value of any equity securities we own. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. When we are a debt or minority equity investor in a portfolio company, which generally is the case, we may not be in a position to control the entity, and its management may make decisions that could decrease the value of our investment. Most of our investments are either debt or minority equity investments in our portfolio companies. Therefore, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. In addition, we generally are not in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could negatively impact our operating results. We are subject to the risk that the investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. When this occurs, we generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments typically have substantially lower 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS yields than the debt being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. Consequently, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elects to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equal with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We invest primarily in debt securities issued by our portfolio companies. In some cases portfolio companies are permitted to have other debt that ranks equal with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders thereof are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equal with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though we may have structured certain of our investments as senior loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the size of our investment and the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt investment and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. In addition, lenders can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them where they become too involved in the borrower’s business or exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken in rendering significant managerial assistance. Our investments in equity securities involve a substantial degree of risk. We may purchase common stock and other equity securities, including warrants. Although equity securities have historically generated higher average total returns than fixed-income securities over the long term, equity securities have also experienced significantly more volatility in those returns. The equity securities we acquire may fail to appreciate and may decline in value or become worthless, and our ability to recover our investment depends on our portfolio company’s success. Investments in equity securities involve a number of significant risks, including the risk of further dilution as a result of additional issuances, inability to access additional capital and failure to pay current distributions. Investments in preferred securities involve special risks, such as the risk of deferred distributions, credit risk, illiquidity and limited voting rights. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We invest in securities issued by private companies. These securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or otherwise be less liquid than publicly-traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. Our investments are usually subject to contractual or legal restrictions on resale or are otherwise illiquid because there is usually no established trading market for such investments. The illiquidity of most of our investments may make it difficult for us to dispose of them at a favorable price, and, as a result, we may suffer losses. 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may not receive all or a portion of the income we expect to continue to receive from Katonah Debt Advisors. We expect to receive distributions of recurring fee income, after the payment of its expenses, from the asset management activities of Katonah Debt Advisors. However, the existing asset management agreements pursuant to which Katonah Debt Advisors receives such fee income from the CLO Funds for which it serves as manager may be terminated for “cause” by the holders of a majority of the most senior class of securities issued by such CLO Funds and the holders of a majority of the subordinated securities issued by such CLO Funds. “Cause” is defined in the asset management agreements to include a material breach by Katonah Debt Advisors of the indenture governing the applicable CLO Fund, breaches by Katonah Debt Advisors of certain specified provisions of the indenture, material breaches of representations or warranties made by Katonah Debt Advisors, bankruptcy or insolvency of Katonah Debt Advisors, fraud or criminal activity on the part of Katonah Debt Advisors or an event of default under the indenture governing the CLO Funds. We expect that future asset management agreements will contain comparable provisions. Further, a significant portion of the asset management fees payable to Katonah Debt Advisors under the asset management agreements are subordinated to the prior payments of interest on the senior securities issued by the CLO Funds. If the asset management agreements are terminated or the CLO Funds do not generate enough income or otherwise have insufficient residual cash flow due to diversion of cash as a result of the failure by the CLO Funds to satisfy certain restrictive covenants contained in their indenture agreements to pay the subordinated management fees, we will not receive the fee income that we expect to continue to receive from Katonah Debt Advisors, which will reduce income available to make distributions to our stockholders. At December 31, 2011, Katonah Debt Advisors was receiving all (senior and subordinate) management fees payable by the CLO Funds managed by it. The fair value of Katonah Debt Advisors may be negatively affected by the costs associated with preparing any separate financial statements of Katonah Debt Advisors that are required by Rule 3-09 of Regulation S-X or any separate summarized financial information of KDA that is required by Rules 10-01, 4-08(g) and 1-02(bb) of Regulation S-X, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition, including the financial condition of Katonah Debt Advisors and our net asset value, as well as the trading price of our common stock. Because the fair value of Katonah Debt Advisors is based on the cash flows of Katonah Debt Advisors available for distribution to the Company, the costs associated with the evaluation of the requirements of Rule 3-09 of Regulation S-X in respect of separate financial statements of Katonah Debt Advisors, the preparation of any required separate financial statements or separate summarized financial information of Katonah Debt Advisors in accordance with Rules 3-09, 10-01, 4-08(g) and 1-02(bb) of Regulation S-X, and any additional audit or review work required to be performed by our independent registered public accountants in respect of any such separate financial statements or separate summarized financial information may reduce the fair value of Katonah Debt Advisors as reflected on the Company’s financial statements, which could result in a reduction to our net asset value. Any such reduction in the fair value of Katonah Debt Advisors could adversely affect our business and financial condition and could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We may not receive any return on our investment in the CLO Funds in which we have invested and we may be unable to raise additional CLO Funds. As of December 31, 2011, we had $41 million invested in the subordinated securities or preferred shares issued by CLO Funds managed by Katonah Debt Advisors and certain other third party asset managers. Subject to market conditions, we expect to continue to acquire subordinated securities in the future in CLO Funds managed by Katonah Debt Advisors and/or third party managers. These subordinated securities are the most junior class of securities issued by the CLO Funds and are subordinated in priority of payment to every other class of securities issued by these CLO Funds. Therefore, they only receive cash distributions if the CLO Funds have made all cash interest payments to all other debt securities issued by the CLO Fund. The subordinated securities are also unsecured and rank behind all of the secured creditors, known or unknown, of the CLO Fund, including the holders of the senior securities issued by the CLO Fund. Consequently, to the extent that the value of a CLO Fund’s loan investments has been reduced as a result of conditions in the 53 TABLE OF CONTENTS credit markets, or as a result of default loans or individual fund assets, the value of the subordinated securities at their redemption could be reduced. Additionally, we may not be able to continue to complete new CLO Funds due to prevailing CLO market conditions or other factors. Risks Related to Our Operation as a BDC A failure on our part to maintain our status as a business development company would significantly reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not continue to qualify as a business development company, we might be regulated as a registered closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act; our failure to qualify as a BDC would make us subject to additional regulatory requirements, which may significantly decrease our operating flexibility by limiting our ability to employ leverage and issue common stock. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities is our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we generally are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain “joint” transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, the SEC. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person or certain of that person’s affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. As a result of these restrictions, we may be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any portfolio company of our affiliates without the prior approval of the SEC. However, we may co-invest on a concurrent basis with any of our affiliates, subject to compliance with existing regulatory guidance, applicable regulations and our allocation procedures. Certain types of negotiated co-investments may be made only if we receive an order from the SEC permitting us to do so. There can be no assurance that any such order will be applied for or, if applied for, obtained. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. Our business requires a substantial amount of additional capital. We may acquire additional capital from the issuance of senior securities or other indebtedness, the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or from securitization transactions. However, we may not be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. We may issue debt securities or preferred securities, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” and we may borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act permits us to issue senior securities or incur indebtedness only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% immediately after such issuance or incurrence. With respect to certain types of senior securities, we must make provisions to prohibit any dividend distribution to our stockholders or the repurchase of certain of our securities, unless we meet the applicable asset coverage ratios at the time of the dividend distribution or repurchase. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy the asset coverage test. If that happens, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our investments and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. • Senior Securities. As a result of issuing senior securities, we would also be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we issue preferred securities they would rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure. Preferred stockholders would have separate voting rights and may have rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. Furthermore, the issuance of preferred securities could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stockholders or otherwise be in your best interest. 54 TABLE OF CONTENTS • Additional Common Stock. Our Board of Directors may decide to issue common stock to finance our operations rather than issuing debt or other senior securities. As a BDC, we are generally not able to issue our common stock at a price below NAV without first obtaining required approvals from our stockholders and our independent directors. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price, that in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any commission or discount). We may also make rights offerings to our stockholders at prices per share less than the NAV per share, subject to the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and you may experience dilution. • Securitization. In addition to issuing securities to raise capital as described above, we may securitize a portion of the loans we may obtain to generate cash for funding new investments. If we are unable to successfully securitize our loan portfolio our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy and our earnings (if any) may be adversely affected. Moreover, even successful securitization of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses, as the residual loans in which we do not sell interests tend to be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. Changes in the laws or regulations governing our business, or changes in the interpretations thereof, and any failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations, could negatively affect the profitability of our operations. Changes in the laws or regulations or the interpretations of the laws and regulations that govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders, could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including our loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply or we might have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in “qualifying assets,” we could fail to qualify as a BDC or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” for purposes of the 1940 Act unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are “qualifying assets.” See “Item 1. Business — Regulation.” We believe that most of the senior loans and mezzanine investments that we acquire constitute “qualifying assets.” However, investments in the equity securities of CLO Funds generally do not constitute “qualifying assets,” and we may invest in other assets that are not “qualifying assets.” If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in “qualifying assets,” we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments or could lose our status as a BDC, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These restrictions could also prevent us from making investments in the equity securities of CLO Funds, which could limit Katonah Debt Advisors’ ability to organize new CLO Funds. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position) or could require us to dispose of investments at inappropriate times in order to come into compliance with the 1940 Act. If we need to dispose of such investments quickly, it would be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. For example, we may have difficulty in finding a buyer and, even if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss. 55 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are unable to qualify as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, we will generally be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax, which will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Provided we qualify as a RIC, we will generally not be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income taxes on income distributed to our stockholders as dividends in accordance with the timing requirements of the Code. We generally will not continue to qualify for pass-through tax treatment as a RIC, and thus will be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income taxes, if we are unable to comply with the source-of-income, asset diversification and distribution requirements contained in the Code, or if we fail to maintain our election to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. Failure to meet the requirements for tax treatment as a RIC would subject us to taxes, which would reduce the return on your investment. As such, our failure to qualify for tax treatment as a RIC would have a material adverse effect on us, the NAV of our common stock and the total return obtainable from your investment in our common stock. We may, from time to time, organize and conduct the business of our wholly-owned portfolio company, Katonah Debt Advisors, through additional direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries which may, in some cases, be taxable as corporations. For additional information see “Item 1. Business — Regulation” and “Item 1. Business — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 