Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this Annual Report, as well as general economic and business risks, together with any other documents we file with the SEC. If any of the following events actually occur or risks actually materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have incurred significant net losses since inception, and we expect our operating expenses to increase significantly in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we may never achieve profitability. We incurred net losses of $5.4 million and $287,000 in 2012 and 2011, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit of $50.0 million as of December 31, 2012. We do not know when or if we will ever achieve profitability. Although our revenue has increased substantially in recent periods, it is likely that we will not be able to maintain this rate of revenue growth. Historically, our operating expenses have increased in proportion to our revenue. We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase in the foreseeable future to the extent that our revenue grows and as we increase headcount, particularly our sales and technology-related headcount, incur general and administrative expenses associated with being a public company and expand our facilities. Although we expect to achieve operating efficiencies and greater leverage of resources as we grow, if we are unable to do so, we may be unable to achieve profitability. If we are not able to achieve and maintain profitability, the value of our company and our common stock could decline significantly. We operate in an intensely competitive industry, and we may not be able to compete successfully. The mobile advertising market is highly competitive and we compete with numerous companies that provide mobile advertising services, some of which are significantly larger than us and have more capital to invest in their mobile advertising businesses. These competitors may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with their mobile operator partners, brand advertisers, app developers or other parties, thereby limiting our ability to promote our services and generate revenue. Competitors could also seek to gain market share from us by reducing the prices they charge to advertisers or by introducing new technology tools for developers. Moreover, increased competition for mobile advertising space from developers could result in an increase in the portion of advertiser revenue that we must pay to developers to acquire that advertising space. Our business will suffer to the extent that our developer clients and advertiser clients purchase and sell mobile advertising directly from each other or through other companies that are able to become intermediaries between developers and advertisers. For example, we are aware of companies that have substantial existing platforms for developers who had previously not heavily used those platforms for mobile advertising campaigns. These companies could compete with us to the extent they expand into mobile advertising. Other companies, such as large app developers with a substantial mobile advertising business, may decide to directly monetize some or all of their advertising space without utilizing our services. Other companies that offer analytics, mediation, exchange or other third-party services may also become intermediaries between mobile advertisers and developers and thereby compete with us. Any of these developments would make it more difficult for us to sell our services and could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses or the loss of market share. 14 Table of Contents The mobile advertising market may deteriorate or develop more slowly than expected, which could harm our business. Advertising on mobile connected devices is an emerging phenomenon. Advertisers have historically spent a smaller portion of their advertising budgets on mobile media as compared to traditional advertising methods, such as television, newspapers, radio and billboards, or online advertising over the internet, such as placing banner ads on websites. Future demand and market acceptance for mobile advertising is uncertain. Many advertisers still have limited experience with mobile advertising and may continue to devote larger portions of their advertising budgets to more traditional offline or online personal computer-based advertising, instead of shifting additional advertising resources to mobile advertising. In addition, our current and potential advertiser clients may ultimately find mobile advertising to be less effective than traditional advertising media or marketing methods or other technologies for promoting their products and services, and they may even reduce their spending on mobile advertising from current levels as a result. If the market for mobile advertising deteriorates, or develops more slowly than we expect, we may not be able to increase our revenue. Our business is dependent on the continued growth in usage of smartphones, tablets and other mobile connected devices. Our business depends on the continued proliferation of mobile connected devices, such as smartphones and tablets, that can connect to the internet over a cellular, wireless or other network, as well as the increased consumption of content through those devices. Consumer usage of these mobile connected devices may be inhibited for a number of reasons, such as: •inadequate network infrastructure to support advanced features beyond just mobile web access; •users' concerns about the security of these devices; •inconsistent quality of cellular or wireless connection; •unavailability of cost-effective, high-speed internet service; and •changes in network carrier pricing plans that charge device users based on the amount of data consumed. For any of these reasons, users of mobile connected devices may limit the amount of time they spend on these devices and the number of apps they download on these devices. If user adoption of mobile connected devices and consumer consumption of content on those devices do not continue to grow, our total addressable market size may be significantly limited, which could compromise our ability to increase our revenue and to become profitable. If mobile connected devices, their operating systems or content distribution channels, including those controlled by our primary competitors, develop in ways that prevent our advertising from being delivered to their users, our ability to grow our business will be impaired. Our business model depends upon the continued compatibility of our mobile advertising platform with most mobile connected devices, as well as the major operating systems that run on them and the thousands of apps that are downloaded onto them. The design of mobile devices and operating systems is controlled by third parties with whom we do not have any formal relationships. These parties frequently introduce new devices, and from time to time they may introduce new operating systems or modify existing ones. Network carriers, such as Verizon, AT&T or T-Mobile, may also impact the ability to download apps or access specified content on mobile devices. In some cases, the parties that control the development of mobile connected devices and operating systems include companies that we regard as our most significant competitors. For example, Apple controls two of the most popular mobile devices, the iPhone and the iPad, as well as the iOS operating system that 15 Table of Contents runs on them. Apple also controls the App Store for downloading apps that run on Apple's mobile devices. Similarly, Google controls the Android operating system and, through its ownership of Motorola Mobility, it controls a significant number of additional mobile devices. If our mobile advertising platform were unable to work on these devices or operating systems, either because of technological constraints or because a maker of these devices or developer of these operating systems wished to impair our ability to provide ads on them or our ability to fulfill advertising space, or inventory, from developers whose apps are distributed through their controlled channels, our ability to generate revenue could be significantly harmed. We do not control the mobile networks over which we provide our advertising services. Our mobile advertising platform is dependent on the reliability of network operators and carriers who maintain sophisticated and complex mobile networks, as well as our ability to deliver ads on those networks at prices that enable us to realize a profit. Mobile networks have been subject to rapid growth and technological change, particularly in recent years. We do not control these networks. Mobile networks could fail for a variety of reasons, including new technology incompatibility, the degradation of network performance under the strain of too many mobile consumers using the network, a general failure from natural disaster or a political or regulatory shut-down. Individuals and groups who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs could also attack mobile networks and the devices that run on those networks. Any actual or perceived security threat to mobile devices or any mobile network could lead existing and potential device users to reduce or refrain from mobile usage or reduce or refrain from responding to the services offered by our advertising clients. If the network of a mobile operator should fail for any reason, we would not be able to effectively provide our services to our clients through that mobile network. This in turn could hurt our reputation and cause us to lose significant revenue. Mobile carriers may also increase restrictions on the amounts or types of data that can be transmitted over their networks. We currently generate different amounts of revenue from our advertiser clients based on the kinds of ads we deliver, such as display ads, rich media ads or video ads. In some cases, we are paid by advertisers on a cost-per-thousand, or CPM, basis depending on the number of ads shown. In other cases, we are paid on a cost-per-click, or CPC, or cost-per-action, or CPA, basis depending on the actions taken by the mobile device user. Different types of ads consume differing amounts of bandwidth and network capacity. If a network carrier were to restrict the amounts of data that can be delivered on that carrier's network, or otherwise control the kinds of content that may be downloaded to a device that operates on the network, it could negatively affect our pricing practices and inhibit our ability to deliver targeted advertising to that carrier's users, both of which could impair our ability to generate revenue. Mobile connected device users may choose not to allow advertising on their devices. The success of our business model depends on our ability to deliver targeted, highly relevant ads to consumers on their mobile connected devices. Targeted advertising is done primarily through analysis of data, much of which is collected on the basis of user-provided permissions. This data might include a device's location or data collected when device users view an ad or video or when they click on or otherwise engage with an ad. Users may elect not to allow data sharing for targeted advertising for a number of reasons, such as privacy concerns, or pricing mechanisms that may charge the user based upon the amount or types of data consumed on the device. Users may also elect to opt out of receiving targeted advertising from our platform. In addition, the designers of mobile device operating systems are increasingly promoting features that allow device users to disable some of the functionality, which may impair or disable the delivery of ads on their devices, and device manufacturers may include these features as part of their standard device specifications. Although we are not aware of any such products that are widely used in the market today, as has occurred in the online advertising industry, companies may develop products that enable users to prevent ads from appearing on their mobile device screens. If any of these 16 Table of Contents developments were to occur, our ability to deliver effective advertising campaigns on behalf of our advertiser clients would suffer, which could hurt our ability to generate revenue and become profitable. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects and may increase your investment risk. We commenced operations in 2006 and, as a result, we have only a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. Although we have experienced significant revenue growth in recent periods, it is likely that we will not be able to sustain this growth. As part of the nascent mobile advertising industry, we will encounter risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early-stage companies in rapidly evolving industries, including the need to: •maintain our reputation and build trust with our advertiser and developer clients; •offer competitive pricing to both advertisers and developers; •maintain and expand our network of advertising space through which we deliver mobile advertising campaigns; •deliver advertising results that are superior to those that advertisers or developers could achieve directly or through the use of competing providers or technologies; •continue to develop and upgrade the technologies that enable us to provide mobile advertising services; •respond to evolving government regulations relating to the internet, telecommunications, privacy, direct marketing and advertising aspects of our business; •identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and •manage our expanding operations. If we do not successfully address these risks, our revenue could decline and our ability to pursue our growth strategy and attain profitability could be compromised. We may not be able to enhance our mobile advertising platform to keep pace with technological and market developments. The market for mobile advertising services is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new service introductions. To keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasing advertiser and developer requirements, maintain the attractiveness and competitiveness of our mobile advertising solutions and ensure compatibility with evolving industry standards and protocols, we will need to regularly enhance our current services and to develop and introduce new services on a timely basis. For example, advances in technology that allow developers to generate revenue from their apps without our assistance could harm our relationships with developers and diminish our available advertising inventory within their apps. Similarly, technological developments that allow third parties to better mediate the delivery of ads between advertisers and developers by introducing an intermediate layer between us and our developer clients could impair our relationships with those developers. Our inability, for technological, business or other reasons, to enhance, develop, introduce and deliver compelling mobile advertising services in response to changing market conditions and technologies or evolving expectations of advertisers or mobile device users could hurt our ability to grow our business and could result in our mobile advertising platform becoming obsolete. 17 Table of Contents We depend on developers for mobile advertising space to deliver our advertiser clients' advertising campaigns, and any decline in the supply of advertising inventory from these developers could hurt our business. We depend on developers to provide us with space within their apps on which we deliver ads. The developers that sell their advertising inventory to us are not required to provide any minimum amounts of advertising space to us, nor are they contractually bound to provide us with a consistent supply of advertising inventory. The tools that we provide to developers allow them to make decisions as to how to allocate advertising inventory among us and other advertising providers, some of which may be our competitors. A third party acting as a mediator on behalf of developers, or any competing mediation tools embedded within a developer's apps, could result in pressure on us to increase the prices we pay to developers for that inventory or otherwise block our access to developer inventory, without which we would be unable to deliver ads on behalf of our advertiser clients. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from the advertising inventory provided by a limited number of developers, and, as a nascent industry, the market for mobile applications is undergoing, and will likely continue to undergo, rapid change and significant consolidation. In most instances, developers can change the amount of inventory they make available to us at any time. Developers may also change the price at which they offer inventory to us, or they may elect to make advertising space available to our competitors who offer ads to them on more favorable economic terms. In addition, developers may place significant restrictions on our use of their advertising inventory. These restrictions may prohibit ads from specific advertisers or specific industries, or they could restrict the use of specified creative content or format. Developers may also use a fee-based or subscription-based business model to generate revenue from their content, in lieu of or to reduce their reliance on ads. If developers decide not to make advertising inventory available to us for any of these reasons, decide to increase the price of inventory, or place significant restrictions on our use of their advertising space, we may not be able to replace this with inventory from other developers that satisfy our requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner. If this happens, our revenue could decline or our cost of acquiring inventory could increase. Our business depends on our ability to collect and use data to deliver ads, and any limitation on the collection and use of this data could significantly diminish the value of our services and cause us to lose clients and revenue. When we deliver an ad to a mobile device, we are often able to collect anonymous information about the placement of the ad and the interaction of the mobile device user with the ad, such as whether the user visited a landing page or watched a video. We may also be able to collect information about the user's mobile location. As we collect and aggregate this data provided by billions of ad impressions, we analyze it in order to optimize the placement and scheduling of ads across the advertising inventory provided to us by developers. For example, we may use the collected information to limit the number of times a specific ad is presented to the same mobile device, to provide an ad to only certain types of mobile devices, or to provide a report to an advertiser client on the number of its ads that were clicked. We also compile the data derived from our platform to publish monthly reports of key mobile industry trends in the form of our S.M.A.R.T. and Mobile Mix reports, which we provide to advertisers and developers to enable them to improve their business decisions about mobile advertising or monetization strategies and to promote their use of our services. Although the data we collect is not personally identifiable information, our clients might decide not to allow us to collect some or all of this data or might limit our use of this data. For example, app developers may not agree to provide us with the data generated by interactions with the content on their apps, or device users may not consent to having information about their device usage provided to the developer. Any limitation on our ability to collect data about user behavior and interaction with mobile device content could make it more difficult for us to deliver effective mobile advertising programs that meet the demands of our advertiser clients. 18 Table of Contents Although our contracts with advertisers generally permit us to aggregate data from advertising campaigns, these clients might nonetheless request that we discontinue using data obtained from their campaigns that have already been aggregated with other clients' campaign data. It would be difficult, if not impossible, to comply with these requests, and these kinds of requests could also cause us to spend significant amounts of resources. Interruptions, failures or defects in our data collection, mining, analysis and storage systems, as well as privacy concerns and regulatory restrictions regarding the collection of data, could also limit our ability to aggregate and analyze mobile device user data from our clients' advertising campaigns. If that happens, we may not be able to optimize the placement of advertising for the benefit of our advertiser clients, which could make our services less valuable, and, as a result, we may lose clients and our revenue may decline. Our business depends in part on our ability to collect and use location-based information about mobile connected device users. Our business model depends in part upon our ability to collect data about the location of mobile connected device users when they are interacting with their devices, and then to use that information to provide effective targeted advertising on behalf of our advertising clients. Our ability to either collect or use location-based data could be restricted by a number of factors, including new laws or regulations, technology or consumer choice. Limitations on our ability to either collect or use location data could impact the effectiveness of our platform and our ability to target ads. Our business practices with respect to data could give rise to liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to consumer privacy and data protection. In the course of providing our services, we transmit and store information related to mobile devices and the ads we place, including a device's geographic location for the purpose of delivering targeted location-based ads to the user of the device, with that user's consent. Federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data that we collect across our mobile advertising platform. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, regulations, policies and legal obligations relating to privacy and data protection. However, it is possible that these requirements may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with U.S. federal, state, or international laws, including laws and regulations regulating privacy or consumer protection, could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others. We are aware of several ongoing lawsuits filed against companies in our industry alleging various violations of privacy-related laws. These proceedings could hurt our reputation, force us to spend significant amounts in defense of these proceedings, distract our management, increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the demand for our services and ultimately result in the imposition of monetary liability. We may also be contractually liable to indemnify and hold harmless our clients from the costs or consequences of inadvertent or unauthorized disclosure of data that we store or handle as part of providing our services. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is evolving, and various government and consumer agencies and public advocacy groups have called for new regulation and changes in industry practices, including some directed at the mobile industry in particular. For example, in early 2012, the State of California entered into an agreement with several major mobile app platforms under which the platforms have agreed to require mobile apps to meet specified standards to ensure consumer privacy. Subsequently, in January 2013, the State of California released a series of recommendations for privacy best practices for the mobile industry. It is possible that new laws and regulations will be adopted in the United States and internationally, or existing laws and regulations may be interpreted in new ways, that would affect our business, particularly with regard to location-based services, collection or use of data to target ads and communication with consumers via mobile devices. 19 Table of Contents The U.S. government, including the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and the Department of Commerce, is focused on the need for greater regulation of the collection of consumer information, including regulation aimed at restricting some targeted advertising practices. In December 2012, the FTC adopted revisions to COPPA that are scheduled to go into effect in July 2013. COPPA imposes a number of obligations on operators of websites and online services including mobile apps, such as obtaining parental consent, if the operator collects specified information from users and either the site or service is directed to children under 13 years old or the site or service knows that a specific user is a child under 13 years old. The changes will broaden the applicability of COPPA, including the types of information that will be subject to these regulations, and may apply to information that we or our clients collect through mobile devices or apps that, prior to the adoption of these new regulations, was not subject to COPPA. We expect that these revisions will impose new compliance burdens on us. In February 2013, the FTC issued a staff report containing recommendations for best practices with respect to consumer privacy for the mobile industry. To the extent that we or our clients choose to adopt these recommendations, or other regulatory or industry requirements become applicable to us, we may have greater compliance burdens. As we expand our operations globally, compliance with regulations that differ from country to country may also impose substantial burdens on our business. In particular, the European Union has traditionally taken a broader view as to what is considered personal information and has imposed greater obligations under data privacy regulations. In addition, individual EU member countries have had discretion with respect to their interpretation and implementation of the regulations, which has resulted in variation of privacy standards from country to country. In January 2012, the European Commission announced significant proposed reforms to its existing data protection legal framework, including changes in obligations of data controllers and processors, the rights of data subjects and data security and breach notification requirements. The EU proposals, if implemented, may result in a greater compliance burden if we deliver ads to mobile device users in Europe. Complying with any new regulatory requirements could force us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner that could compromise our ability to effectively pursue our growth strategy. In addition to compliance with government regulations, we voluntarily participate in several trade associations and industry self-regulatory groups that promulgate best practices or codes of conduct addressing the provision of location-based services, delivery of promotional content to mobile devices, and tracking of device users or devices for the purpose of delivering targeted advertising. We could be adversely affected by changes to these guidelines and codes in ways that are inconsistent with our practices or in conflict with the laws and regulations of U.S. or international regulatory authorities. If we are perceived as not operating in accordance with industry best practices or any such guidelines or codes with regard to privacy, our reputation may suffer and we could lose relationships with advertiser or developer partners. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results have historically fluctuated and our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include the following: •seasonal patterns in mobile advertisers' spending, which tend to be cyclical; •the addition of new advertiser or developer clients or the loss of existing advertisers or developers; •changes in demand for our mobile advertising services; •changes in the amount, price and quality of available advertising inventory from developers; 20 Table of Contents •the timing and amount of sales and marketing expenses incurred to attract new advertisers and developers; •changes in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy generally, which could alter current or prospective advertisers' spending priorities, or could increase the time it takes us to close sales with advertisers; •changes in our pricing policies, the pricing policies of our competitors or the pricing of mobile advertising generally; •changes in governmental regulation of the internet, wireless networks, mobile advertising or the collection of mobile device user data; •costs necessary to improve and maintain our technology platform; •timing differences at the end of each quarter between our payments to developers for advertising space and our collection of advertising revenue related to that space; and •costs related to acquisitions of other businesses. Our operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts and investors in some future periods. If this happens, even just temporarily, the market price of our common stock may fall. Seasonal fluctuations in mobile advertising activity could adversely affect our cash flows. Our cash flows from operations could vary from quarter to quarter due to the seasonal nature of our advertisers' spending. For example, many advertisers devote the largest portion of their budgets to the fourth quarter of the calendar year, to coincide with increased holiday purchasing. To date, these seasonal effects have been masked by our rapid revenue growth. However, if and to the extent that seasonal fluctuations become more pronounced, our operating cash flows could fluctuate materially from period to period as a result. We do not have long-term agreements with our advertiser clients, and we may be unable to retain key clients, attract new clients or replace departing clients with clients that can provide comparable revenue to us. Our success requires us to maintain and expand our current advertiser client relationships and to develop new relationships. Our contracts with our advertiser clients generally do not include long-term obligations requiring them to purchase our services and are cancelable upon short or no notice and without penalty. As a result, we may have limited visibility as to our future advertising revenue streams. We cannot assure you that our advertiser clients will continue to use our services or that we will be able to replace, in a timely or effective manner, departing clients with new clients that generate comparable revenue. If a major advertising client representing a significant portion of our business decides to materially reduce its use of our platform or to cease using our platform altogether, it is possible that we would not have a sufficient supply of ads to fill our developer clients' advertising inventory, in which case our revenue could be significantly reduced. Any non-renewal, renegotiation, cancellation or deferral of large advertising contracts, or a number of contracts that in the aggregate account for a significant amount of revenue, could cause an immediate and significant decline in our revenue and harm our business. Our sales efforts with both advertisers and developers require significant time and expense. Attracting new advertiser and developer clients requires substantial time and expense, and we may not be successful in establishing new relationships or in maintaining or advancing our current relationships. For example, it may be difficult to identify, engage and market to potential advertiser clients who do not currently spend on mobile advertising or are unfamiliar with our current services or platform. Furthermore, many of our clients' purchasing and design decisions typically require input from multiple internal constituencies. As a result, we must identify those involved in the purchasing decision and devote a sufficient amount of time to presenting our services to each of those individuals. 21 Table of Contents The novelty of our services and our business model often requires us to spend substantial time and effort educating potential advertiser and developer clients about our offerings, including providing demonstrations and comparisons against other available services. This process can be costly and time-consuming. If we are not successful in streamlining our sales processes with advertisers and developers, our ability to grow our business may be adversely affected. If we do not achieve satisfactory results under performance-based pricing models, we could lose clients and our revenue could decline. We offer our services to advertisers based on a variety of pricing models, including CPM, CPA and CPC. Under performance-driven CPA and CPC pricing models, from which we currently derive a significant portion of our revenue, advertisers only pay us if we provide the results they specify. These results-based pricing models differ from fixed-rate pricing models, like CPM, under which the fee is based on the number of times the ad is shown, without regard to its effectiveness. As a result, under our contracts with advertisers that provide for us to be paid on a CPC or CPA basis, we must be able to develop effective ad campaigns that result in the desired actions being taken by consumers. If we are not able to perform effectively under these arrangements, it could hurt our reputation with advertisers and developers and could cause our revenues to decline. If we cannot increase the capacity of our mobile advertising technology platform to meet advertiser or device user demand, our business will be harmed. We must be able to continue to increase the capacity of our MYDAS technology platform in order to support substantial increases in the number of advertisers and device users, to support an increasing variety of advertising formats and to maintain a stable service infrastructure and reliable service delivery for our mobile advertising campaigns. If we are unable to efficiently and effectively increase the scale of our mobile advertising platform to support and manage a substantial increase in the number of advertisers and mobile device users, while also maintaining a high level of performance, the quality of our services could decline and our reputation and business could be seriously harmed. In addition, if we are not able to support emerging mobile advertising formats or services preferred by advertisers, we may be unable to obtain new advertising clients or may lose existing advertising clients, and in either case our revenue could decline. If we fail to detect click fraud or other invalid clicks on ads, we could lose the confidence of our advertiser clients, which would cause our business to suffer. Our business relies on delivering positive results to our advertiser clients. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent and other invalid clicks or conversions that advertisers may perceive as undesirable. Because of their smaller sizes as compared to personal computers, mobile device usage could result in a higher rate of accidental or otherwise inadvertent clicks by a user. Invalid clicks could also result from click fraud, where a mobile device user intentionally clicks on ads for reasons other than to access the underlying content of the ads. If fraudulent or other malicious activity is perpetrated by others, and we are unable to detect and prevent it, the affected advertisers may experience or perceive a reduced return on their investment. High levels of invalid click activity could lead to dissatisfaction with our advertising services, refusals to pay, refund demands or withdrawal of future business. Any of these occurrences could damage our brand and lead to a loss of advertisers and revenue. System failures could significantly disrupt our operations and cause us to lose advertiser clients or advertising inventory. Our success depends on the continuing and uninterrupted performance of our own internal systems, which we utilize to place ads, monitor the performance of advertising campaigns and manage our inventory of advertising space. Our revenue depends on the technological ability of our platform to deliver ads and 22 Table of Contents measure them on a CPM, CPC or CPA basis. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to provide services to clients, including technological failures affecting our ability to deliver ads quickly and accurately and to process mobile device users' responses to ads, could significantly reduce the attractiveness of our services to advertisers and reduce our revenue. Our systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, power outages, malicious human acts and natural disasters. In addition, any steps we take to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems may be expensive and may not be successful in preventing system failures. Failure to adequately manage our growth may seriously harm our business. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant growth in our business. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our services may suffer, which could negatively affect our reputation and demand for our services. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational and financial resources and our infrastructure. Our future success will depend, in part, upon the ability of our senior management to manage growth effectively. This will require us to, among other things: •implement additional management information systems; •further develop our operating, administrative, legal, financial and accounting systems and controls; •hire additional personnel; •develop additional levels of management within our company; •locate additional office space; •maintain close coordination among our engineering, operations, legal, finance, sales and marketing and client service and support organizations; and •manage our expanding international operations. Moreover, as our sales increase, we may be required to concurrently deploy our services infrastructure at multiple additional locations or provide increased levels of customization. As a result, we may lack the resources to deploy our services on a timely and cost-effective basis. Failure to accomplish any of these requirements could impair our ability to deliver our mobile advertising platform in a timely fashion, fulfill existing client commitments or attract and retain new clients. Our increasing international operations subject us to increased challenges and risks. We have recently started to expand our operations internationally, including opening international offices in the United Kingdom in the first half of 2010, launching operations in Singapore in the fourth quarter of 2011 and opening offices in continental Europe and Southeast Asia during 2012. We expect to further expand our international operations by opening offices in new countries and regions worldwide. However, we have a limited operating history as a company outside the United States, and our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple cultures, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, regulatory systems and commercial infrastructures. International expansion will require us to invest significant funds and other resources. Expanding internationally may subject us to new risks that we have not faced before or increase risks that we currently face, including risks associated with: •recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees in foreign countries; •providing mobile advertising services among different cultures, including potentially modifying our platform and features to ensure that we deliver ads that are culturally relevant in different countries; 23 Table of Contents •increased competition from local providers of mobile advertising services; •compliance with applicable foreign laws and regulations; •longer sales or collection cycles in some countries; •credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; •compliance with anti-bribery laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Anti-Bribery Act; •currency exchange rate fluctuations; •foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the United States; •economic instability in some countries, particularly those in Europe given our recent expansion in the United Kingdom; •political instability; •compliance with the laws of numerous taxing jurisdictions, both foreign and domestic, in which we conduct business, potential double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in applicable U.S. and foreign tax laws; •the complexity and potential adverse consequences of U.S. tax laws as they relate to our international operations; •increased costs to establish and maintain effective controls at foreign locations; and •overall higher costs of doing business internationally. If our revenue from our international operations, and particularly from our operations in the countries and regions on which we have focused our spending, do not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining these operations, our business and operating results will suffer. If we do not retain our senior management team and other employees, or attract additional sales and technology talent, we may not be able to sustain our growth or achieve our business objectives. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management team, particularly Paul Palmieri, our chief executive officer, Chris Brandenburg, our chief technology officer, Stephen Root, our chief operating officer, Michael Avon, our chief financial officer, and Mollie Spilman, our chief marketing officer. We do not maintain key-person insurance on any of these employees. Our future success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly employees with technical skills that enable us to deliver effective mobile advertising solutions and sales and client support representatives with experience in mobile and other digital advertising and strong relationships with brand advertisers and app developers. Competition for these employees in our industry is intense. As a result, we may be unable to attract or retain these management, technical, sales and client support personnel that are critical to our success, resulting in harm to our key client relationships, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated recruitment and training costs. The loss of the services of our senior management or other key employees could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and pursue our business goals. Acquisitions or investments may be unsuccessful and may divert our management's attention and consume significant resources. A key part of our growth strategy is to pursue additional acquisitions or investments in other businesses or individual technologies, including additional technology tools for app developers that allow 24 Table of Contents them to generate revenue from their apps through advertising that we can supply. Any acquisition or investment may require us to use significant amounts of cash, issue potentially dilutive equity securities or incur debt. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: •difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, services and personnel of acquired businesses, especially if those businesses operate outside of our core competency of delivering mobile advertising; •cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; •ineffectiveness or incompatibility of acquired technologies or services; •potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; •inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses; •diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •litigation for activities of the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, clients, former stockholders or other third parties; •in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; •costs necessary to establish and maintain effective internal controls for acquired businesses; •failure to successfully further develop the acquired technology in order to recoup our investment; and •increased fixed costs. Activities of our advertiser clients could damage our reputation or give rise to legal claims against us. Our advertiser clients' promotion of their products and services may not comply with federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, laws and regulations relating to mobile communications. Failure of our clients to comply with federal, state or local laws or our policies could damage our reputation and expose us to liability under these laws. We may also be liable to third parties for content in the ads we deliver if the artwork, text or other content involved violates copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of third parties or if the content is defamatory, unfair and deceptive, or otherwise in violation of applicable laws. Although we generally receive assurance from our advertisers that their ads are lawful and that they have the right to use any copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property included in an ad, and although we are normally indemnified by the advertisers, a third party or regulatory authority may still file a claim against us. Any such claims could be costly and time-consuming to defend and could also hurt our reputation. Further, if we are exposed to legal liability as a result of the activities of our advertiser clients, we could be required to pay substantial fines or penalties, redesign our business methods, discontinue some of our services or otherwise expend significant resources. Our business depends on our ability to maintain the quality of our advertiser and developer content. We must be able to ensure that our clients' ads are not placed in developer content that is unlawful or inappropriate. Likewise, our developers rely upon us not to place ads in their apps that are unlawful or inappropriate. If we are unable to ensure that the quality of our advertiser and developer content does not decline as the number of advertisers and developers we work with continues to grow, then our reputation and business may suffer. 25 Table of Contents Our inability to use software licensed from third parties, or our use of open source software under license terms that interfere with our proprietary rights, could disrupt our business. Our technology platform incorporates software licensed from third parties, including some software, known as open source software, which we use without charge. Although we monitor our use of open source software, the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide our platform to our clients. In the future, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our platform, which licenses may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Alternatively, we may need to re-engineer our platform or discontinue use of portions of the functionality provided by our platform. In addition, the terms of open source software licenses may require us to provide software that we develop using such software to others on unfavorable license terms. Our inability to use third-party software could result in disruptions to our business, or delays in the development of future offerings or enhancements of existing offerings, which could impair our business. Software and components that we incorporate into our mobile advertising platform may contain errors or defects, which could harm our reputation and hurt our business. We use a combination of custom and third-party software, including open source software, in building our mobile advertising platform. Although we test software before incorporating it into our platform, we cannot guarantee that all of the third-party technology that we incorporate will not contain errors, bugs or other defects. We continue to launch enhancements to our mobile advertising platform, and we cannot guarantee any such enhancements will be free from these kinds of defects. If errors or other defects occur in technology that we utilize in our mobile advertising platform, it could result in damage to our reputation and losses in revenue, and we could be required to spend significant amounts of additional resources to fix any problems. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our services, weaken our competitive position and reduce our revenue. We regard the protection of our intellectual property, which includes trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, domain names and patent applications, as critical to our success. We strive to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our proprietary information. However, these contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary information or deter independent development of similar technologies by others. We have begun to seek patent protection for certain of our technologies and currently have nine U.S. and eight international patent applications on file, although there can be no assurance that these patents will ultimately be issued. We are also pursuing the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. Effective trade secret, copyright, trademark, domain name and patent protection is expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and the costs of defending our rights. We may be required to protect our intellectual property in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every location. We may, over time, increase our investment in protecting our intellectual property through additional patent filings that could be expensive and time-consuming. 26 Table of Contents We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, some of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. Further, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may also independently develop similar technology. In addition, the laws of many countries, such as China and India, do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of European countries and the United States. Further, the laws in the United States and elsewhere change rapidly, and any future changes could adversely affect us and our intellectual property. Our failure to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could result in competitors offering services that incorporate our most technologically advanced features, which could seriously reduce demand for our mobile advertising services. In addition, we may in the future need to initiate infringement claims or litigation. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time-consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and managerial personnel, which could harm our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination that is unfavorable to us. In addition, litigation is inherently uncertain, and thus we may not be able to stop our competitors from infringing upon our intellectual property rights. We operate in an industry with extensive intellectual property litigation. Claims of infringement against us may hurt our business. Our success depends, in part, upon non-infringement of intellectual property rights owned by others and being able to resolve claims of intellectual property infringement without major financial expenditures or adverse consequences. The mobile telecommunications industry generally is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation. Although our technology is relatively new and our industry is rapidly evolving, many participants that own, or claim to own, intellectual property historically have aggressively asserted their rights. From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, including currently pending proceedings related to alleged patent infringement, as described in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings," and we expect that third parties will continue to assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business. Future litigation may be necessary to defend ourselves or our clients by determining the scope, enforceability and validity of third-party proprietary rights or to establish our proprietary rights. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. In addition, patent holding companies that focus solely on extracting royalties and settlements by enforcing patent rights may target us. Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights have any merit, these claims are time-consuming and costly to evaluate and defend and could: •adversely affect our relationships with our current or future clients; •cause delays or stoppages in providing our mobile advertising services; •divert management's attention and resources; •require technology changes to our platform that would cause us to incur substantial cost; •subject us to significant liabilities; and •require us to cease some or all of our activities. 27 Table of Contents In addition to liability for monetary damages against us, which may be tripled and may include attorneys' fees, or, in some circumstances, damages against our clients, we may be prohibited from developing, commercializing or continuing to provide some or all of our mobile advertising solutions unless we obtain licenses from, and pay royalties to, the holders of the patents or other intellectual property rights, which may not be available on commercially favorable terms, or at all. Our business involves the use, transmission and storage of confidential information, and the failure to properly safeguard such information could result in significant reputational harm and monetary damages. We may at times collect, store and transmit information of, or on behalf of, our clients that may include certain types of confidential information that may be considered personal or sensitive, and that are subject to laws that apply to data breaches. We believe that we take reasonable steps to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the information we collect and store, but there is no guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information despite our efforts to protect this information. If such unauthorized disclosure or access does occur, we may be required to notify persons whose information was disclosed or accessed. Most states have enacted data breach notification laws and, in addition to federal laws that apply to certain types of information, such as financial information, federal legislation has been proposed in the past that would establish broader federal obligations with respect to data breaches. We may also be subject to claims of breach of contract for such disclosure, investigation and penalties by regulatory authorities and potential claims by persons whose information was disclosed. The unauthorized disclosure of information may result in the termination of one or more of our commercial relationships or a reduction in client confidence and usage of our services. We may also be subject to litigation alleging the improper use, transmission or storage of confidential information, which could damage our reputation among our current and potential clients, require significant expenditures of capital and other resources and cause us to lose business and revenue. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. Commencing with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2013, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our Form 10-K filing for that year, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This will require that we incur substantial additional professional fees and internal costs to expand our accounting and finance functions and that we expend significant management efforts. Prior to our initial public offering in March 2012, we were never required to test our internal controls within a specified period, and, as a result, we may experience difficulty in meeting these reporting requirements in a timely manner. We may in the future discover areas of our internal financial and accounting controls and procedures that need improvement. Our internal control over financial reporting will not prevent or detect all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud will be detected. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, or if we are unable to maintain proper and effective internal controls, we may not be able to produce timely and accurate financial statements, and we may conclude that our internal controls over 28 Table of Contents financial reporting are not effective. If that were to happen, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the New York Stock Exchange, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. We are an "emerging growth company," and if we decide to comply only with reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock could be less attractive to investors. We are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the JOBS Act, and, for as long as we continue to be an "emerging growth company," we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an "emerging growth company" through the year ending December 31, 2017, although a variety of circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies that become public can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. We may need additional capital in the future to meet our financial obligations and to pursue our business objectives. Additional capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, which could compromise our ability to meet our financial obligations and grow our business. We may need to raise additional capital to fund operations in the future or to finance acquisitions. If we seek to raise additional capital in order to meet various objectives, including developing future technologies and services, increasing working capital, acquiring businesses and responding to competitive pressures, capital may not be available on favorable terms or may not be available at all. In addition, pursuant to the terms of our credit facility, we may be restricted from using the net proceeds of financing transactions for our operating objectives. Lack of sufficient capital resources could significantly limit our ability to take advantage of business and strategic opportunities. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or debt securities with an equity component would dilute our stock ownership. If adequate additional funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate material parts of our business strategy, including potential additional acquisitions or development of new technologies. Our net operating loss carryforwards may expire unutilized or underutilized, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income. We may be limited in the portion of net operating loss carryforwards that we can use in the future to offset taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. At December 31, 2012, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of $51.3 million, which expire at various dates through 2033. Our gross state net operating loss carryforwards are equal to or less than the federal net operating loss carryforwards and expire over various periods based on individual state tax law. We periodically assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our net deferred tax assets. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, 29 Table of Contents expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible profits. As a result of this analysis of all available evidence, both positive and negative, we concluded that a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets should be applied as of December 31, 2012. To the extent we determine that all or a portion of our valuation allowance is no longer necessary, we will recognize an income tax benefit in the period such determination is made for the reversal of the valuation allowance. Once the valuation allowance is eliminated or reduced, its reversal will no longer be available to offset our current tax provision. These events could have a material impact on our reported results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock An active trading market for our common stock may not continue to develop or be sustained. Prior to our initial public offering in March 2012, there was no public market for our common stock, and we cannot assure you that an active trading market for our shares will continue to develop or be sustained. If an active market for our common stock does not continue to develop or is not sustained, it may be difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares without depressing the market price for the shares or to sell such shares at all. The trading price of the shares of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. Since our initial public offering in March 2012, our stock price has exhibited significant volatility. The stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price paid for the shares. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: •actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; •changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; •conditions or trends in our industry; •stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that operate in the advertising, internet or media industries; •announcements by us or our competitors of new product or service offerings, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; •announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; •capital commitments; •additions or departures of key personnel; and •sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors and officers or specific stockholders. In addition, in the past, stockholders have initiated class action lawsuits against technology companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of these companies' stock. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. As a newly public company, we have only limited research coverage by equity research analysts. Equity research analysts may elect not to initiate or to 30 Table of Contents continue to provide research coverage of our common stock, and such lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Even if we do have equity research analyst coverage, we will not have any control over the analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or issue other unfavorable commentary or research. If one or more equity research analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The issuance of additional stock in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, our stock incentive plans or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 250,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by our board of directors. Subject to compliance with applicable rules and regulations, we may issue our shares of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition, investment, our stock incentive plans or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. There are provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws that may make it difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of our company, even if a change in control was considered favorable by you and other stockholders. For example, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The board of directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction. As a result, the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders may be adversely affected. An issuance of shares of preferred stock may result in the loss of voting control to other stockholders. Our charter documents also contain other provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including: •only one of our three classes of directors is elected each year; •stockholders are not entitled to remove directors other than by a 662/3% vote and only for cause; •stockholders are not permitted to take actions by written consent; •stockholders cannot call a special meeting of stockholders; and •stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or submit proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions by prohibiting Delaware corporations from engaging in specified business combinations with particular stockholders of those companies. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our common stock, including transactions that may be in your best interests. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management or limit the price that investors are willing to pay for our stock. 31 Table of Contents Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders. Concentration of ownership of our common stock among our existing executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of December 31, 2012, our executive officers, directors and current beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock and their respective affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 63% of our outstanding common stock. These persons, acting together, are able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and our stock may not appreciate in value. We have not declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock to date. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any existing or future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or that the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares will be able to be maintained. We will incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies in the United States. As a public company listed in the United States, and particularly after we cease to be an "emerging growth company," we will incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations implemented by the SEC and stock exchanges, may increase legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If notwithstanding our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards, we fail to comply, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Failure to comply with these rules might also make it more difficult for us to obtain some types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we might be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors or as members of senior management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 32 Table of Contents 