ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We depend on our ability to continue to obtain federal government dredging contracts, and are therefore greatly impacted by the amount of government funding for dredging projects. A reduction in government funding for dredging contracts can materially reduce our revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from federal government dredging contracts. Revenues related to contracts with federal agencies or companies operating under contracts with federal agencies and its percentage as a total of dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Federal government dredging revenue (in US$1,000) $ 186,694 $ 156,348 $ 297,101 Percent of dredging revenue from federal government 42 % 41 % 79 % Domestic dredging revenue has been impacted in the last three years by the Corps' funding issues as it struggles with administrative difficulties and budget constraints. This has resulted in a decrease in our revenue from the federal government and it is unclear whether our percentage of work with the federal government will increase in the foreseeable future. See "Business—Current Status of the Dredging Market". If we are unable, in the future, to obtain bonding for our dredging contracts, our ability to obtain future dredging contracts will be limited, thereby adversely affecting our business. We, like all dredging service providers, are generally required to post bonds in connection with our domestic dredging contracts to ensure job completion if we fail to finish a project. We have entered into a bonding agreement with Travelers pursuant to which Travelers acts as surety, issues bid bonds, performance bonds and payment bonds, and obligates itself upon other contracts of guaranty required by us in the day-to-day operations of our dredging and marine construction business. However, Travelers is not obligated under the bonding agreement to issue future bonds for us. Therefore, if we were unable to obtain additional bonds, our ability to take on future work would be severely limited. If we are unable, in the future, to obtain letters of credit for our foreign dredging contracts, our ability to obtain future dredging contracts will be limited, thereby adversely affecting our business. Foreign dredging contracts generally require letters of credit to ensure job completion. We obtain letters of credit under our Credit Agreement or a separate facility which is supported by the Export-Import Bank of the United States ("Ex-Im") under Ex-Im's Working Capital Guarantee Program. However, the amount of letters of credit under these facilities is limited. In addition access to the facility may be limited by failure to meet certain financial requirements or other defined requirements. Therefore, if we were unable to obtain letters of credit, our ability to take on foreign dredging contracts in the future would be severely limited. Our business is subject to significant operating risks and hazards that could result in damage or destruction to persons or property, which could result in losses or liabilities to us. The dredging and demolition businesses are generally subject to a number of risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, encountering unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins below water levels, collisions, disruption of transportation services and flooding. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, dredges, transportation vessels, other maritime structures and buildings, and could also result in personal injury, environmental damage, performance delays, monetary losses or legal liability. 14 We are subject to risks related to our international operations. Revenue from foreign contracts and its percentage to total dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Foreign revenue (in US $1000) $ 140,468 $ 86,039 $ 47,402 Percent of revenue from foreign contracts 32 % 23 % 13 % International operations subject us to additional potential risks, including: •uncertainties concerning import and export license requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; •restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; •changes in foreign laws, policies and regulatory requirements; •difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; •taxation issues; •greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; •compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •difficulty in enforcing our contractual rights; •currency fluctuations; and •political, cultural and economic uncertainties, including acts of terrorism. Due to the slow down in the domestic market we have committed more resources to international operations which has increased our exposure to these risks. The work currently performed internationally is primarily with one customer. Revenue from contracts with the government of Bahrain and its percentage to total foreign dredging revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Bahrain government dredging revenue (in US$1,000) $ 106,119 $ 78,183 $ 39,003 Percent of foreign dredging revenue from the Bahrain government 76 % 91 % 82 % Revenue from foreign projects over the last three years has been concentrated in Bahrain and primarily with the government of Bahrain. If the government of Bahrain were to change its expansion strategy or diversify its use of dredging venders, our revenue could decline significantly. The amount of our estimated backlog is subject to change and not necessarily indicative of future revenues. Our dredging contract backlog represents our estimate of the revenues that we will realize under contracts remaining to be performed based upon estimates relating to, among other things, the time required to mobilize the necessary assets to and from the project site, as well as the amount and type of material and the time it takes for that material to be dredged. However, these estimates are necessarily subject to fluctuations based upon the amount and type of material that actually must be dredged, as well as factors affecting the time required to complete each job. Consequently, backlog is not necessarily indicative of future revenues or profitability. In addition, a significant amount of our dredging backlog relates to government contracts, which can be canceled at 15 any time without penalty, subject to our right, in some cases, to recover our actual committed costs and profit on work performed up to the date of cancellation. Below is our dredging backlog from federal government contracts as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 and the percentage of those contracts to total backlog as of the same period. December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Government contracts in backlog (in US$1,000) $ 212,313 $ 75,315 $ 99,630 Percent of government contracts to total backlog 66 % 21 % 38 % Our profitability is subject to inherent risks because of the fixed-price nature of most of our contracts. Substantially all of our contracts with our customers are fixed-price contracts. Under a fixed-price contract, the customer agrees to pay a specified price for our performance of the entire contract. Fixed-price contracts carry inherent risks, including risks of losses from underestimating costs, operational difficulties and other changes that may occur over the contract period. One of the most significant factors affecting the profitability of a dredging project is the weather at the project site. Inclement or hazardous weather conditions can result in substantial delays in dredging and additional contract expenses. Due to these factors, it is possible that we will not be able to perform our obligations under fixed-price contracts without incurring additional expenses. If we were to significantly underestimate the costs on one or more significant contracts, the resulting losses could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business could suffer in the event of a work stoppage by our unionized labor force. We are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements in the U.S. that govern our relationships with our unionized hourly workforce. However, four primary agreements apply to approximately 84% of such employees. The inability to successfully renegotiate contracts with these unions as they expire, any future strikes, employee slowdowns or similar actions by one or more unions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Our business would be adversely affected if we failed to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade, or if those provisions were modified or repealed. We are subject to the Jones Act and other federal laws that restrict dredging in U.S. waters and maritime transportation between points in the United States to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the United States, at least 75% owned and operated by U.S. citizens and manned by U.S. crews. Compliance with these laws increases our operating costs in comparison to non-U.S. dredging operations. We are responsible for monitoring the ownership of our common stock to ensure our compliance with these laws. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the U.S. market, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. dredging rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. In the past, interest groups have lobbied Congress to modify or repeal the Jones Act to facilitate foreign flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. flag vessels under the Jones Act. We believe that continued efforts may be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act laws currently benefiting U.S. flag vessels. If these efforts are successful, it could result in significantly increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which makes us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding long-term indebtedness of $196.5 million. This amount of debt is substantial and our debt could: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; or •increase our vulnerability to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; and limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel and may also increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of our older vessels will increase. The average age of our more significant vessels as of December 31, 2007, by equipment type, is as follows: Type of Equipment Quantity Weighted Average Age in Years Hydraulic Dredges 11 40 Hopper Dredges 10 26 Mechanical Dredges 5 32 Unloaders 2 23 Drillboats 2 17 Material and Other Barges 87 28 Total 117 30 Remaining economic life has not been presented because it is difficult to quantify. To the extent that market conditions warrant the expenditures, we can prolong the vessels' lives indefinitely. We operate in an industry where a significant portion of competitors' equipment is of a similar age. It is common in the dredging industry to invest maintenance and capital expenditures into equipment to extend the economic life. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make additional expenditures. For example, if the U.S. Coast Guard enacts new standards, we may be required to make significant expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment. In order to satisfy any such requirement, we may need to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. Our employees are covered by federal laws that may provide seagoing employees remedies for job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. All of our seagoing employees are covered by provisions of the Jones Act and general maritime law. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers' compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for 17 job-related injuries in federal courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers' compensation statutes, we have greater exposure for claims made by these employees as compared to employers whose employees are not covered by these provisions. For example, in the normal course of business, we are a party to various personal injury lawsuits. We maintain insurance to cover claims that arise from injuries to our hourly workforce subject to a deductible. Over the last two years, there has been an increase in suits filed in Texas due in large part to two Texas law firms aggressively pursuing personal injury claims on behalf of dredging workers resident in Texas. Aggressive medical advice is increasing the severity of claimed injuries and the amount demanded in settlement. In fiscal 2007 and 2006, $3.9 and $4.5 million, respectively, was recorded for our self-insured portion of these liabilities. While our recorded self insurance reserves represent our best estimate of the outcomes of these claims, should these trends persist, we could continue to be negatively impacted in the future. See Note 18, "Commitments and Contingencies" in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all. We maintain various insurance policies, including, hull and machinery, general liability and personal injury. We partially self-insure risks covered by our policies. We are not required to, and do not, specifically set aside funds for the self-insured portion of claims. At any given time, we are subject to multiple personal injury claims. We maintain substantial loss accruals for these claims and insurance costs have been rising for several years notwithstanding our emphasis on safety. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. We may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain such insurance coverage at acceptable rates or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Environmental regulations could force us to incur significant capital and operational costs. Our operations and facilities are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to, among other things: dredging operations; the disposal of dredged material; protection of wetlands; storm water and waste water discharges; demolition activities; asbestos removal; transportation and disposal of other hazardous substances and materials; and air emissions. We are also subject to laws designed to protect certain marine species and habitats. Compliance with these statutes and regulations can delay performance of particular projects and increase related project costs. These delays and increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our projects may involve demolition, excavation, transportation, management and disposal of hazardous waste and other hazardous substances and materials. Various laws strictly regulate the removal, treatment and transportation of hazardous waste and other hazardous substances and materials and impose liability for human health effects and environmental contamination caused by these materials. Our demolition business, for example, requires us to transport and dispose of hazardous substances and materials, such as asbestos. Services rendered in connection with hazardous substance and material removal and site development may involve professional judgments by licensed experts about the nature of soil conditions and other physical conditions, including the extent to which hazardous substances and materials are present, and about the probable effect of procedures to mitigate problems or otherwise affect those conditions. If the judgments and the recommendations based upon those judgments are incorrect, we may be liable for resulting damages that our clients incur, which may be material. The failure of certain contractual protections, including any indemnification from our clients or subcontractors, to protect us from incurring such liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 18 Our demolition business (NASDI) depends on key customer relationships and our reputation in the Boston contract market developed and maintained by our key operations manager. Loss of any of these elements would materially reduce our demolition revenues and profits. Demolition contracts are entered into on a project by project basis, so NASDI does not have continuing contractual commitments with its demolition customers beyond the terms of the current contract. We benefit from key relationships with certain general and construction contractors in the Boston market. We also benefit from our reputation in the Boston market developed over years of successfully performing on projects. Both of these aspects of the business were developed and are maintained through the demolition business' key manager. The inability to maintain relationships with these customers or obtain new customers based on NASDI's reputation would reduce the revenue and profitability from demolition contracts. The inability of NASDI to retain its key demolition manager would have a material adverse affect on NASDI's current customer relationships and reputation. During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may incur civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services allegedly contributed to any property damage or personal injury. With respect to such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, we accrue reserves in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In the event that such actions are ultimately resolved unfavorably at amounts exceeding our accrued reserves, the outcome could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are currently engaged in litigation related to claims arising from Hurricane Katrina. See "Business—Legal Proceedings." If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, our revenue could suffer. Our contracts with federal, state and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations and other contract provisions. Certain violations of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and fines, and suspension from future government contracting. If we are suspended from government work for any reason, we could suffer a material reduction in revenue. In addition, we may be subject to litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts ("qui tam"), which could include claims for up to treble damages. Qui tam actions are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information in the complaint are the complainant, the U.S. government, and the court. Therefore, it is possible that qui tam actions have been filed against us and that we are not aware of such actions or have been ordered by the court not to discuss them until the seal is lifted. Thus, it is possible that we are subject to liability exposure under the False Claims Act based on qui tam actions. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profit. In particular, as is more fully discussed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies," we recognize contract revenue using the percentage-of-completion method. The majority of our work is performed on a fixed-price basis. Contract revenue is accrued based on engineering estimates for the physical percent complete for dredging and estimates of remaining costs to complete for demolition. We follow the guidance of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") Statement of Position 81-1, Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts, for accounting policies relating to our use of the percentage-of-completion method, estimating costs, revenue recognition, combining and segmenting contracts and change order/claim recognition. Percentage-of-completion accounting relies on the use of significant estimates in the process of 19 determining income earned. The cumulative impact of revisions to estimates is reflected in the period in which these changes become known. Due to the various estimates inherent in our contract accounting, actual results could differ from those estimates, which may result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profit. Our common stock is subject to restrictions on foreign ownership. We are subject to government regulations pursuant to the Dredging Act, the Jones Act, the Shipping Act and the Vessel Documentation Act. These statutes require vessels engaged in the transport of merchandise or passengers or dredging in the navigable waters of the U.S. to be owned and controlled by U.S. citizens. The U.S. citizenship ownership and control standards require the vessel-owning entity to be at least 75% U.S.-citizen owned. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions limiting non-citizenship ownership of our capital stock. If our board of directors determines that persons who are not citizens of the U.S. own more than 22.5% of our outstanding capital stock or more than 22.5% of our voting power, we may redeem such stock or, if redemption is not permitted by applicable law or if our board of directors, in its discretion, elects not to make such redemption, we may require the non-citizens who most recently acquired shares to divest such excess shares to persons who are U.S. citizens in such manner as our board of directors directs. The required redemption price could be materially different from the current price of the common stock or the price at which the non-citizen acquired the common stock. If a non-citizen purchases the common stock, there can be no assurance that he will not be required to divest the shares and such divestiture could result in a material loss. Such restrictions and redemption rights may make our equity securities less attractive to potential investors, which may result in our common stock having a lower market price than it might have in the absence of such restrictions and redemption rights. Our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must consider the benefits of controls relative to their costs. Inherent limitations within a control system include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be prevented or detected. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") to implement Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management to include in our annual report on Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. We may potentially in the future discover areas of internal control over financial reporting which may require improvement. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective now or in any future period, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor 20 confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for holders to resell our common stock when they want or at prices that they find attractive. The price of our common stock on NASDAQ Global Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: •changes in market conditions; •quarterly variations in our operating results; •our operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; •changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; •announcements of strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; •the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; •future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; •changes in the economy and the financial markets; •departures of key personnel; •changes in governmental regulations; and •geopolitical conditions, such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons often unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Future issuances of our common stock will dilute the ownership interests of stockholders and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could materially and adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 