Item 1A. Risk Factors. PAETEC’s business is subject to a variety of significant risks, including the following: PAETEC may experience difficulty integrating the businesses and operations of US LEC and McLeodUSA and may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of its mergers with US LEC and McLeodUSA. PAETEC’s future success will depend in significant part on its ability to realize the cost savings, operating efficiencies and new revenue opportunities that it expects to result from the integration of PAETEC’s business with the businesses of US LEC and McLeodUSA. PAETEC’s operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected if it is unable to integrate successfully the operations of PAETEC with US LEC and McLeodUSA, fails to achieve or achieve on a timely basis such cost savings, operating efficiencies and new revenue opportunities, or incurs unforeseen costs and expenses or experiences unexpected operating difficulties that offset anticipated cost savings. In particular, the integration of the acquired businesses may involve, among other matters, integration of sales, marketing, billing, accounting, quality control, management, personnel, payroll, regulatory compliance, network infrastructure and other systems and operating hardware and software, some of which may be incompatible and therefore may need to be replaced. If PAETEC does not successfully implement its acquisition strategy, any businesses that PAETEC may acquire could harm PAETEC’s results of operations and financial condition. As part of PAETEC’s growth strategy, PAETEC seeks to supplement internal expansion through targeted acquisitions. PAETEC is subject to various risks in connection with any acquisitions or series of acquisitions, including the risks that PAETEC: • may be unable to realize anticipated cost savings or operating efficiencies, to retain skilled management, technical, sales and back office personnel of acquired companies, to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout all of its acquired companies, or to manage successfully the risks associated with entering new geographical, customer or product markets in which it has little or no experience; • may suffer adverse developments in its relationships with vendors, face brand awareness issues related to the acquired assets or customers, be forced to limit the attention it can devote to any one acquired company, and suffer disruption of its ongoing business operations as a result of its acquisition and integration activities; • may encounter resistance by customers of acquired companies to PAETEC’s marketing programs, pricing levels or services and may not successfully incorporate the services of acquired businesses into PAETEC’s package of service offerings or successfully integrate the network equipment and operating support systems of acquired businesses; and • may experience difficulties in evaluating the historical or future financial performance of the acquired companies. Even if acquired companies eventually contribute to an improvement in PAETEC’s operating results or financial condition, the acquisitions may adversely affect PAETEC’s operating results and financial condition in the short term. PAETEC’s operating results may decrease as a result of transaction-related expenses PAETEC records for the period in which it completes an acquisition. PAETEC’s operating results may be further reduced by the higher operating and administrative expenses PAETEC may incur in the periods immediately following an acquisition as PAETEC seeks to integrate the acquired business into its operations. If PAETEC is unable to manage its business effectively, PAETEC’s prospects for profitable operations will be harmed. To achieve and sustain operating profitability, PAETEC is required to maintain its revenue, control expenses and otherwise manage its business efficiently. This places significant demands on PAETEC’s 28 Table of Contents management and other employees, its operational and financial systems, and its internal controls and procedures. If PAETEC fails to manage PAETEC’s operations effectively, PAETEC may experience higher costs of operations, a decline in service quality, the loss of customers, and other limitations that would adversely affect PAETEC’s prospects for profitable operations. If PAETEC does not retain its senior management and continue to attract and retain qualified personnel and independent sales agents, PAETEC may not be able to execute its business plan. PAETEC’s senior management team has extensive experience in the telecommunications industry. As a result, the loss of the services of one or more members of PAETEC’s senior management could impair PAETEC’s ability to implement its integration plan and execute its business strategy, which could hinder PAETEC’s ability to sustain profitability. PAETEC also could be less prepared to respond to technological or marketing developments, which could reduce PAETEC’s ability to serve its customers and could lower the quality of its services. PAETEC has not entered into employment agreements with, and does not maintain key-man life insurance covering, any members of PAETEC’s senior management team. PAETEC faces competition for qualified personnel, including management, technical and sales personnel. PAETEC also relies on a large number of independent sales agents to market and sell PAETEC’s services. If PAETEC is unable to attract and retain experienced and motivated personnel, including a large and effective direct sales force, a substantial number of sales agents, and qualified information technology and other back office personnel, PAETEC may not be able to obtain new customers or effectively service existing customers, or sell sufficient amounts of service to execute PAETEC’s business plan. PAETEC relies on other carriers to provide it with critical parts of its network under a regulatory framework that may change. PAETEC must lease from incumbent carriers special access digital T1 transmission lines and an increasing number of unbundled network element, or “UNE,” digital T1 transmission lines and other elements to connect substantially all of its end-user customers to its network. To obtain these lines and, accordingly, to provide its local voice and data services, PAETEC depends on existing regulations that require these special access T1s, UNE T1s and other elements to be provided to competitive carriers on specified terms. As described under “Business–Regulation,” recent and pending regulatory developments may reduce the extent to which incumbent carriers are required to lease special access and UNE lines to PAETEC or may permit incumbent carriers to increase the prices they charge for such lines or impose unacceptable terms and conditions. These developments or similar future developments could limit or terminate PAETEC’s affordable access to the network components it needs to provide local and long distance voice and data services. Although PAETEC historically has relied more on special access than on UNE lines to connect end-user customers to its network, PAETEC’s acquisition of US LEC and McLeodUSA has increased PAETEC’s overall reliance on UNE lines for such purposes. As a result, although the majority of PAETEC’s end-user connections use special access lines, PAETEC today is more vulnerable to changes in the rates, terms and conditions of UNEs than it was in the past. If PAETEC cannot continue to secure access to UNEs at regulated cost-based rates and on acceptable terms and conditions, or if PAETEC cannot successfully convert end-user connections that currently rely on these UNEs to special access or other commercial arrangements purchased on economically viable terms and conditions under such circumstances, PAETEC may not be able to provide its services at an acceptable profit. If PAETEC does not compete effectively in the highly competitive market for network services, it could lose customers and revenue and may face more difficulties as it expands in existing markets and enters new markets. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive, particularly with the advent of new technologies replacing traditional public switched telecommunications networks in favor of services transmitted over the 29 Table of Contents Internet. This increased level of competition could diminish PAETEC’s market share and affect PAETEC’s ability to expand PAETEC’s business. PAETEC will compete with current and potential market entrants, including: • AT&T, Inc., Qwest Communications International Inc., and Verizon Communications Inc., which are the large, former monopoly local telephone companies and their successors; • other competitive carriers, competitive access providers, Internet service providers and stand-alone VoIP providers; and • cable television companies, electric utilities, and wireless and satellite service providers. Many of the competitors identified above have significantly greater market presence, engineering and marketing capabilities, and financial, technological and personnel resources than PAETEC. Additionally, some of these competitors are currently subject to substantially less regulation than competitive and incumbent carriers and claim to be exempt from a number of taxes and regulatory charges that PAETEC is required to pay. As a result, compared to PAETEC, the company’s competitors may be able to develop and expand their network infrastructures and services offerings more efficiently or more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily, and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services. Further, they may succeed in developing and expanding their communications and network infrastructures more quickly than PAETEC. PAETEC faces increased price competition in the market for network services and, as a result, may not be able to sustain operating profitability, maintain adequate market share or achieve significant revenue growth. The demand for PAETEC’s services may not exist at prices that will enable it to maintain adequate market share or achieve significant revenue growth. In response to increased competition from incumbent carriers, and providers using new technologies, including VoIP, competitive carriers like PAETEC have reduced the prices they charge for their network services significantly in recent years. Moreover, in light of the mergers between AT&T and SBC Communications Inc., between MCI, Inc. and Verizon, and between AT&T and BellSouth Corporation, PAETEC faces significant price and service competition with respect to its network services from these incumbents, which are the largest incumbent carriers in the United States, as well as from other large established telephone companies that are the dominant competitors in all of PAETEC’s service areas. PAETEC expects to experience an overall increase in pricing pressures, particularly with respect to its network services, due to competition, volume-based pricing and other factors. PAETEC’s ability to reduce its prices may be limited by its reliance on some of its principal competitors to provide it with the key network elements PAETEC needs to provide network services. In addition, if regulatory authorities were to prohibit PAETEC from including specified types of additional charges on bills for network services to offset expenses that PAETEC may incur, PAETEC could be required to increase its base prices for network services above competitive levels. PAETEC also expects a continuation of the trend toward decreasing prices for digital communications services. As a result, PAETEC’s customers may not continue to select its services over those of its competitors. PAETEC’s business is subject to a variety of risks based on its dependence on regulations that continue to change. Most of the network services and carrier services that PAETEC provides are subject to significant regulation and may be adversely affected by regulatory developments at the federal, state and local levels, including the developments described under “Business–Regulation.” The regulations, for example, can affect the types of services PAETEC may offer, the rates PAETEC is permitted to charge for its services and for the use of its network by other carriers, the manner in which PAETEC may bill its customers and the rates PAETEC must pay others for their services and for the use of their networks. In addition, the regulations may impose specific operational or compliance requirements related to the protection of customer proprietary network information, 30 Table of Contents capability to associate a physical address with a calling party’s telephone number (E-911) or cooperation with law enforcement officials engaged in lawful communication intercept or monitoring activities. All of these requirements may reduce the revenue PAETEC generates from its operating activities or increase its operating costs. Federal and state regulations also determine the level of contribution PAETEC must make to federal and state telecommunications subsidy programs, as well as the terms under which it may use any rights of way necessary for the operation of its business. If PAETEC fails to comply with applicable regulations, or if the regulations change in a manner adverse to PAETEC, including in any of the ways described in these risk factors or under “Business–Regulation,” its business and operating results may suffer. If PAETEC is required to reduce the prices it charges for some or all of its network services, PAETEC’s profitability may be negatively affected and its ability to continue to generate positive cash flows from operations may be diminished. PAETEC may be required to reduce the prices it charges for some or all of its network services for the following reasons, which could adversely affect its profit margins and its ability to generate positive cash flows from operations: • the incumbent carriers in the markets PAETEC serves already offer a bundle of local, long distance and data services that is the same as or similar to the bundle of services that PAETEC offers; • PAETEC’s current and potential customers are increasingly using VoIP, which could, for example, reduce or eliminate long distance revenues generated by those customers; • the mergers between AT&T and SBC, between MCI and Verizon, and between AT&T and BellSouth may provide these carriers with significant operating efficiencies and substantial marketing, financial and technical resources as they compete with PAETEC; • regulatory authorities generally have decreased their oversight of incumbent carriers and from time to time are asked to forbear from applying a range of regulations to incumbent carriers, which may increase the benefits these companies experience from their longstanding customer relationships and greater financial and technical resources, and may increase their ability to reduce prices for local and other network services by offsetting those reductions with revenue or profits generated by unrelated businesses, products or services; and • regulatory authorities recently have permitted incumbent carriers to exercise pricing flexibility in setting the rates they charge for some of the network services that PAETEC also provides, rather than requiring the carriers to charge set rates. If PAETEC cannot continue to interconnect with and obtain key network elements and special access services from some of its primary competitors on acceptable terms, it may not be able to offer its local voice and data services on a profitable basis, if at all. PAETEC will not be able to provide its local voice and data services on a profitable basis, if at all, unless it is able to continue to interconnect with and obtain key network elements and special access service from some of PAETEC’s primary competitors on acceptable terms. To offer local voice and data services in a market, PAETEC must connect its network with the networks of the incumbent carrier in that market. This relationship is governed by an interconnection agreement between the incumbent carrier and PAETEC. Interconnection agreements can be terminated or expire and thereby require renegotiation and renewal. If PAETEC is not able to renegotiate or enter into interconnection agreements on terms that are favorable to it, PAETEC’s cost of doing business could increase and its ability to compete could be impeded. For additional information concerning the terminated interconnection agreements between PAETEC’s McLeodUSA operating subsidiary, and concerning additional initiatives by which incumbent carriers may seek to prevent PAETEC’s ability to interconnect with those carriers in the future, see “Business–Regulation.” 31 Table of Contents Industry consolidation may increase PAETEC’s costs. Before their respective mergers, AT&T and MCI offered some network services and elements in competition with the incumbent carriers. However, the mergers between AT&T and SBC, between MCI and Verizon and between AT&T and BellSouth could significantly increase the cost of the high-speed circuits PAETEC must lease to connect its customers to PAETEC’s switching equipment by reducing the number of providers that offer those high-speed circuits. PAETEC also may incur increased circuit costs in portions of the Qwest region, where these large incumbents may not have a significant presence. Such a development could decrease the competitive pressure on other carriers to maintain low rates for these circuits. Failure to obtain and maintain necessary permits and rights-of-way could interfere with PAETEC’s network infrastructure and operations. To obtain and maintain rights-of-way and similar rights and easements needed to install, operate and maintain fiber optic cable and its other network elements, PAETEC must negotiate and manage agreements with state highway authorities, local governments, transit authorities, local telephone companies and other utilities, railroads, long distance carriers and other parties. The failure to obtain or maintain any rights-of-way could interfere with PAETEC’s operations, interfere with its network infrastructure and its use of that infrastructure and adversely affect PAETEC’s business. For example, if PAETEC loses access to a right-of-way, it may need to spend significant sums to remove and relocate its facilities. PAETEC’s operating performance will suffer if it is not offered competitive rates for the access services PAETEC needs to provide its long distance services. PAETEC depends on other telecommunications companies to originate and terminate a significant portion of the long distance traffic initiated by its network services customers. To the extent that the volume of long distance traffic PAETEC carries remains substantial, its operating performance will suffer if it is not offered these access services at rates that are substantially equivalent to the rates charged to its competitors or that otherwise do not enable it to have profitable pricing of its long distance services. Access charges historically have made up a significant percentage of the overall cost associated with the provision of long distance service by PAETEC and its operating subsidiaries. PAETEC’s business and operating results will be adversely affected if PAETEC cannot obtain access rates at parity with its competitors. Regulatory initiatives may continue to reduce the maximum rates PAETEC is permitted to charge for some services that it provides to long distance service carriers. The rates that PAETEC charges long distance service providers for originating or terminating interstate and intrastate calls initiated by their customers to customers served by its network, and for transferring calls by PAETEC’s customers onto the long distance carrier’s network, cannot exceed the rates established by federal and, in some cases, state regulatory authorities. There are several pending FCC and state regulatory proceedings addressing these rates. The outcome of these proceedings could result in a material reduction in the permissible rates PAETEC may charge some carriers for originating and terminating traffic. Similarly, the rates PAETEC may charge to local carriers to terminate local calls made by their customers to PAETEC’s customers are governed by state regulatory authorities and agreements between the local carriers and PAETEC. In the future, various state regulatory authorities may institute proceedings that could have the effect of reducing the rates PAETEC may charge local service providers for terminating local traffic. Such reductions in originating and terminating rates could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC’s business and cash flow. The outcome of the pending FCC rulemaking proceeding that is reviewing the framework for intercarrier compensation could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC’s operating results. Significant changes to the current rules governing intercarrier compensation could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC’s collection and payment of reciprocal compensation and access fees. Intercarrier compensation, 32 Table of Contents including exchange access and reciprocal compensation, currently is the subject of an ongoing proceeding before the FCC designed to reform the way in which carriers and service providers pay other carriers and providers for the use of their respective networks. Although discussions among carriers and at the FCC are continuing, particularly with regard to certain issues such as “phantom traffic,” which refers to unidentifiable, and thus unbillable, network traffic, and “traffic stimulation” arrangements involving sharing of access revenues with third parties, no clear consensus has emerged on how the rules governing intercarrier compensation can and should be reformed. Whether and how intercarrier compensation reform will affect PAETEC and other carriers therefore remains unclear. An inability to market and develop additional services may adversely affect PAETEC’s ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. PAETEC offers local, long distance, data, Internet, VoIP and other telecommunications services. To address the future needs of PAETEC’s customers, PAETEC is required to market and develop additional services. PAETEC may not be able to continue to provide the range of telecommunications services that PAETEC’s customers need or seek. PAETEC may lose some of its customers or be unable to attract new customers if it cannot offer these services. PAETEC and other industry participants are frequently involved in disputes over issues that, if decided adversely to PAETEC, could harm PAETEC’s financial and operational prospects. PAETEC anticipates that it will continue to be subject to risks associated with the resolution of various disputes, lawsuits, arbitrations and proceedings affecting PAETEC’s business. The deregulation of the telecommunications industry, the implementation of the Telecommunications Act and the distress of many carriers in the telecommunications industry as a result of continued competitive factors and financial pressures have resulted in the involvement by numerous industry participants, including PAETEC, in disputes, lawsuits, proceedings and arbitrations before state and federal regulatory commissions, private arbitration organizations such as the American Arbitration Association, and courts over many issues that will be important to PAETEC’s financial and operational success. These issues include the interpretation and enforcement of existing interconnection agreements and tariffs, the terms of new interconnection agreements, operating performance obligations, intercarrier compensation, access charges applicable to different categories of traffic (including traffic originating from or terminating on wireless networks), the jurisdiction of traffic for intercarrier compensation purposes, the wholesale services and facilities available to PAETEC, the prices PAETEC will pay for those services and facilities, and the regulatory treatment of new technologies and services. PAETEC’s business could suffer if third parties successfully claim that PAETEC has infringed their intellectual property rights. The dependence of the telecommunications industry on proprietary technology has resulted in frequent litigation based on allegations of the infringement of patents and other intellectual property. PAETEC may be subject to litigation to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Regardless of its merits, any intellectual property litigation could be time-consuming and costly and could divert management’s time and attention from PAETEC’s business operations. Adverse resolutions of any such litigation could adversely affect PAETEC’s business by requiring PAETEC to: • pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that it normally would not find acceptable; • stop selling or to redesign some of its products or services; or • satisfy indemnification obligations to its customers. On January 24, 2008, Sprint Communications Company L.P., or “Sprint,” notified PAETEC that it had filed a patent infringement action in the United States District Court for the District of Kansas against PAETEC Holding Corp. and two of its subsidiaries, including one operating subsidiary, PAETEC Communications, Inc. 33 Table of Contents As discussed in more detail under the heading “Legal Proceedings” elsewhere in this report, Sprint alleges that PaeTec Communications infringed patents for the methods of use and system architecture of packet technology to carry telephone calls to or from the public switched telephone network. Although PAETEC is currently unable to estimate the potential losses, if any, it may incur in connection with any litigation concerning Sprint’s claims, if such litigation were resolved in a manner adverse to PAETEC, a judgment or settlement in Sprint’s favor could result in damage awards against PAETEC, could require PAETEC to pay Sprint royalties or licensing fees in connection with future sales of products or services, or could require PAETEC to cease engaging in any infringing activities, including any infringing sales. PAETEC’s significant level of debt and interest payment obligations may limit its ability to compete and expose it to interest rate risk to the extent of its variable-rate debt. As of March 1, 2008, PAETEC had a total of $895.5 million of indebtedness outstanding, including $300 million principal amount of senior notes and $595.5 million principal amount of borrowings outstanding under PAETEC’s senior secured term loan facilities. In addition, PAETEC may borrow up to $50 million under its revolving credit facility from time to time. This substantial level of indebtedness may have important consequences. For example, it may: • make it more difficult for PAETEC to satisfy its financial obligations; • require PAETEC to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness; • limit PAETEC’s ability to pursue its acquisition strategy or react to changes to the economy or in its business or industry; and • place PAETEC at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies that have less indebtedness. Because a substantial portion of the borrowings under PAETEC’s senior secured credit facilities accrues interest at variable rates, PAETEC’s interest expense could increase if interest rates increase and it is not able to manage its related exposure through derivative financial instruments. For additional information, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Covenants under PAETEC’s debt agreements may restrict its future operations. PAETEC’s senior secured credit facilities and senior notes indenture impose operating and financial restrictions that limit PAETEC’s discretion on some business matters, which could make it more difficult for PAETEC to expand, finance its operations and engage in other business activities that may be in its interest. These restrictions include compliance with or maintenance of a maximum leverage ratio under PAETEC’s credit facilities, and will limit the ability of PAETEC and its subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase PAETEC’s capital stock, create restrictions on dividend and other payments to PAETEC from its subsidiaries, issue or sell stock of subsidiaries, and make investments or repay subordinated indebtedness; and • engage in sale-leaseback transactions, sell assets, create liens, and engage in mergers, sales, acquisitions and consolidations. PAETEC may incur indebtedness in addition to the foregoing indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness it may incur in the future may subject PAETEC to similar or even more restrictive conditions. If PAETEC is unable to raise additional capital, its ability to expand its business and to meet its obligations will be limited. The development and expansion of PAETEC’s network will require substantial capital investment. If PAETEC chooses to accelerate the expansion of PAETEC’s business, PAETEC will require additional capital. 34 Table of Contents PAETEC also may require additional capital to fund payments of PAETEC’s indebtedness as an increasing amount of PAETEC’s indebtedness becomes due and payable. If PAETEC cannot successfully obtain additional equity or debt financing for necessary purposes on acceptable terms, PAETEC could be at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with significant capital or the ability to raise significant capital for expansion. The terms of any financing PAETEC does obtain may be burdensome to PAETEC. If PAETEC is unable to maintain or enhance its back office information systems, PAETEC may not be able to increase its revenue as planned or to compete effectively. Sophisticated back office information systems are vital to PAETEC’s revenue growth and PAETEC’s ability to monitor costs, bill customers, initiate, implement and track customer orders, and achieve operating efficiencies. To increase revenue, PAETEC must select products and services offered by third-party vendors and efficiently integrate those products and services into PAETEC’s existing back office operations. PAETEC may not successfully implement these products, services and systems on a timely basis, and PAETEC’s systems may fail to perform as the company expects. A failure or delay in the expected performance of PAETEC’s back office systems, or a failure or delay in effectively integrating the back office systems of acquired companies with PAETEC’s back office systems, could slow the pace of PAETEC’s expected revenue growth or harm PAETEC’s competitiveness by adversely affecting PAETEC’s service quality, which could lead to a loss of existing customers or a failure to attract and retain new customers. Changes in technology, service offerings and customer preferences could affect PAETEC’s ability to compete in the marketplace for telecommunications and information services. PAETEC faces rapid and significant changes in technology. PAETEC’s ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers will be impaired if PAETEC is unable to deliver new technologies and services that have significant customer acceptance, to adopt those new technologies and offer those new services in a timely and effective manner, and to compete successfully against other service providers that introduce the same or similar new technologies and offer substantially similar new services. The telecommunications industry has changed significantly over the past several years and is continuing to evolve rapidly. Emerging technologies and services, such as VoIP applications, broadband services and advanced wireless offerings, are altering the economic conditions under which the telecommunications and information services industry operates. New technologies also could lead to the development of new, more convenient and cost-effective services. In addition, the preferences and requirements of customers are rapidly changing. For example, telecommunications customers are increasingly using wireless forms of communication, such as handheld Internet-access devices and mobile phones. The use of wireless communications has resulted in a decline in the volume of voice traffic carried by traditional wireline telecommunications networks and likely has resulted in a decrease in the average minutes of use generated by customers of wireline communications services providers, including PAETEC. We expect this trend to continue. The development and offering of new services in response to new technologies or consumer demands may require PAETEC to increase its capital expenditures significantly. In addition, new technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may only be available to PAETEC’s competitors and not to PAETEC. PAETEC may not be able to compete effectively if PAETEC is unable to install additional network equipment or to convert its network to more advanced technology. PAETEC’s long-term business strategy may require it to convert its existing network to a network using more advanced technology. PAETEC may not have or be able to raise the significant capital that a conversion may require, or be able to complete the installation of additional network equipment and the conversion to more advanced technology in a timely manner, at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. PAETEC also may face technological problems that cannot be resolved. If PAETEC is unable successfully to install or operate new 35 Table of Contents network equipment or to convert its network to a network using more advanced technology, PAETEC may not be able to compete effectively, and PAETEC’s results of operations could be adversely affected. Network failures or system breaches could cause delays or adversely affect PAETEC’s service quality, which may cause it to lose customers and revenue. In operating its network, PAETEC must maintain connections for, and manage, a large number of customers and a large quantity of traffic at high speeds. Any failure or perceived failure to achieve or maintain high-speed data transmission could significantly reduce demand for PAETEC’s services and adversely affect PAETEC’s operating results. PAETEC has experienced outages, such as temporary switch outages, that have prevented PAETEC from providing uninterrupted services to some of its customers. Outages such as these have resulted in lost revenue and could cause PAETEC to lose customers. In the future, PAETEC may experience similar or more severe outages or other network failures or breaches. Computer viruses, break-ins, human error, natural disasters and other problems also may disrupt PAETEC’s network. The network security and stability measures PAETEC implements may be circumvented in the future or otherwise fail to prevent the disruption of PAETEC’s services. The costs and resources required to eliminate computer viruses and other security problems may result in interruptions, delays or cessation of services to PAETEC’s customers, which could result in a decrease in demand, decrease PAETEC’s revenue and slow PAETEC’s planned expansion. If PAETEC’s network or other ground facilities are damaged by natural catastrophes or terrorism, PAETEC’s ability to provide services may be interrupted and the quality of PAETEC’s services may be adversely affected. A major earthquake, hurricane, tornado, fire, terrorist attack on the United States, or other catastrophic event could damage PAETEC’s network, network operations center, central offices or corporate headquarters. Such an event could interrupt PAETEC’s service, adversely affect service quality and harm PAETEC’s business. PAETEC does not have replacement or redundant facilities that it can use to provide alternative means of service to all customers or under every circumstance in the event of a catastrophic event. Any damage to PAETEC’s network could result in degradation of PAETEC’s service for some customers and could result in complete loss of service in affected areas. Future sales of PAETEC’s common stock in the public market could lower the price of PAETEC common stock and impair PAETEC’s ability to raise funds in future securities offerings. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of PAETEC common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of PAETEC common stock and could make it more difficult for PAETEC to raise funds through a public offering of its equity securities. Of the 39,975,000 shares of PAETEC common stock issued or issuable as consideration in connection with the merger with McLeodUSA, a minimum of approximately 28,500,000 shares are eligible for sale in the public market without restriction. The remaining shares of PAETEC common stock issued or issuable as merger consideration, or up to approximately 11,475,000 shares, may generally be resold by the holders of those shares only in accordance with an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the “Securities Act,” or pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act. Of the PAETEC shares issued or issuable as merger consideration, the resale of approximately 27,013,000 shares held by McLeodUSA’s former principal institutional stockholders are subject to contractual restrictions for a 90-day period after the merger closing date of February 8, 2008. PAETEC has the right to waive the resale restrictions at any time during this period, in whole or in part, without advance public notice. PAETEC has entered into a registration rights agreement with some of McLeodUSA’s former stockholders. PAETEC stockholders with rights under that registration rights agreement and an existing registration rights 36 Table of Contents agreement will have the benefit, subject to limitations and qualifications, to demand, piggyback and, in the case of the McLeodUSA stockholders, shelf registration rights with respect to their PAETEC common stock. Approximately 47,000,000 outstanding shares of PAETEC common stock, or approximately 33% of the shares of PAETEC common stock outstanding, are entitled to these registration rights. Also, up to an additional approximately 1,600,000 shares of PAETEC common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants are entitled to these registration rights. If PAETEC fails to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting or fails to implement any required changes, PAETEC’s ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could increase its operating costs and adversely affect its ability to operate its business. PAETEC is required to provide annual management assessments of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting beginning with its 2007 fiscal year, and will be required to provide reports on the effectiveness of its internal control by PAETEC’s independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments beginning with its 2008 fiscal year. Ensuring that PAETEC has adequate internal control over financial reporting so that PAETEC can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort. Implementing any required changes to PAETEC’s internal controls may require modifications to PAETEC’s existing accounting systems or the engagement of additional accounting personnel. Any failure to maintain adequate internal controls, or the inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase PAETEC’s operating costs and impair PAETEC’s ability to operate its business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 