Item 1A. Risk Factors. PAETEC Holding is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following: We may experience difficulty integrating the business and operations of PAETEC and US LEC and may fail to realize the anticipated financial and operating benefits of the transaction. Our success will depend on our ability to realize the cost savings, operating efficiencies and new revenue opportunities we expect to result from our integration of the PAETEC and US LEC businesses. Our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected if we are unable to integrate successfully the operations of PAETEC and US LEC, fail to achieve or achieve on a timely basis such cost savings, operating efficiencies and new revenue opportunities, or incur unforeseen costs and expenses or experience unexpected operating difficulties that offset anticipated cost savings. In particular, the integration of these businesses may involve, among other items, integration of sales, marketing, billing, accounting, quality control, management, personnel, payroll, regulatory compliance, network infrastructure and other systems and operating hardware and software, some of which may be incompatible with our existing systems and therefore may need to be replaced. The integration may place significant strain on our management, financial and other resources. PAETEC Holding’s ability to comply with the financial covenants in its debt agreements depends primarily on its ability to generate substantial operating cash flows. PAETEC Holding’s ability to comply with the financial covenants under the agreements that govern its $800 million principal amount of outstanding senior secured indebtedness and the $50 million that is available for borrowing under its revolving credit facility will depend primarily on its success in generating substantial operating cash flows. Under these debt agreements, PAETEC Holding is subject to quarterly compliance with a specified total leverage ratio and a specified fixed charge coverage ratio. Industry conditions and financial, business and other factors, including those identified as risk factors in this report, will affect PAETEC Holding’s ability to generate the cash flows it needs to meet 17 Table of Contents those financial maintenance tests. PAETEC Holding’s failure to meet the tests could result in a default and acceleration of repayment of the indebtedness under its credit facilities. If the maturity of PAETEC Holding’s indebtedness were accelerated, it may not have sufficient funds to pay such indebtedness. In such event, PAETEC Holding’s lenders would be entitled to proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness, which will include substantially all of PAETEC Holding’s assets. PAETEC Holding’s substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect its financial health and ability to compete. PAETEC Holding has approximately $800 million of senior secured indebtedness and it has a revolving credit facility under which it may borrow up to an additional $50 million. This substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it may: • increase PAETEC Holding’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a significant portion of its borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • require PAETEC Holding to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit PAETEC Holding’s ability to borrow additional funds to expand its business or alleviate liquidity constraints, as a result of financial and other restrictive covenants in its indebtedness; • limit PAETEC Holding’s ability to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity; • limit PAETEC Holding’s ability to pursue its acquisition strategy; • limit PAETEC Holding’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and • place PAETEC Holding at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies that have less indebtedness. In addition, PAETEC Holding’s senior secured credit facilities impose operating and financial restrictions that limit PAETEC Holding’s discretion on some business matters, which could make it more difficult for PAETEC Holding to expand, finance its operations and engage in other business activities that may be in its interest. These restrictions limit the ability of PAETEC Holding and its subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness and additional liens on their assets; • engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • voluntarily prepay other indebtedness; • enter into transactions with affiliated persons; • make investments; and • change the nature of their businesses. Any additional indebtedness PAETEC Holding may incur in the future may subject it to similar or even more restrictive conditions. PAETEC Holding may be unable to service its indebtedness. PAETEC Holding may incur indebtedness in addition to the $800 million of senior secured indebtedness it has incurred, and the $50 million of additional indebtedness it may incur, under its new credit facilities. PAETEC Holding’s ability to make payments on or to refinance its indebtedness will depend on its ability in the future to generate cash flows from operations and to raise additional funds, including through the offering of equity or debt securities. PAETEC Holding may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to raise additional funds in amounts necessary for it to repay its indebtedness when such indebtedness becomes due and to meet its other cash needs. 18 Table of Contents If PAETEC Holding does not successfully implement its acquisition strategy, any businesses that it may acquire could harm its results of operations and financial condition. As part of its growth strategy, PAETEC Holding seeks to supplement internal expansion with acquisitions. PAETEC Holding is subject to various risks in connection with any acquisitions or series of acquisitions, including the following: • it may be unable to realize anticipated cost savings or operating efficiencies; • it may be unable to retain skilled management, technical, sales and back office personnel of acquired companies; • customers of acquired companies may resist its marketing programs, pricing levels or services; • it may experience difficulties in evaluating the historical or future financial performance of the acquired companies; • it may not successfully incorporate the services of acquired businesses into its package of service offerings or successfully integrate the network equipment and operating support systems of acquired businesses; • the attention it can devote to any one acquired company may be restricted by its allocation of limited management resources among various integration efforts; • its acquisition and integration activities may disrupt its ongoing business activities; • it may be unable to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout all of its acquired companies; • it may be unable to successfully manage risks associated with entering new markets in which it has little or no experience; • its relationships with vendors may be adversely affected; • it may face brand awareness issues related to the acquired assets or customers; and • it may face prepayment of assumed liabilities from acquired companies. Even if acquired companies eventually contribute to an improvement in PAETEC Holding’s operating results or financial condition, the acquisitions may adversely affect its operating results and financial condition in the short term. PAETEC Holding’s operating results may decrease as a result of transaction-related expenses it records for the period in which it completes an acquisition. PAETEC Holding’s operating results may be further reduced by the higher operating and administrative expenses it may incur in the periods immediately following an acquisition as it seeks to integrate the acquired business into its operations. If PAETEC Holding does not compete effectively in the highly competitive market for network services, it could lose customers and revenue and may face more difficulties as it expands in existing markets and enters new markets. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive, particularly with the advent of new technologies replacing traditional publicly switched telecommunications networks in favor of services transmitted over the Internet. PAETEC Holding will compete with current and potential market entrants, including: • AT&T, Verizon and other incumbent carriers, which are the large, former monopoly local telephone companies and their successors; • other competitive carriers; • competitive access providers; • cable television companies; • electric utilities; • Internet service providers and stand-alone VoIP providers; • wireless and satellite service providers; and • private networks built by large end-users. Many of these competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, better strategic relationships and significantly greater financial, technical or marketing resources than PAETEC Holding. As a result, these competitors may be able to develop and adopt new or emerging technologies more quickly, devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies, particularly with respect to network services. This increased level of competition from its competitors could diminish PAETEC Holding’s market share and affect its ability to expand its business. 19 Table of Contents As a result of competitive pressures, PAETEC Holding will face increased price competition in the market for network services and, as a result, may not be able to achieve or sustain operating profitability, maintain adequate market share or achieve significant revenue growth. In response to increased competition from incumbent carriers, and providers using new technologies including Internet Protocol, or “IP,” to transmit VoIP, competitive carriers like PAETEC Holding have reduced the prices they charge for their network services significantly in recent years. Moreover, in light of the mergers between AT&T and SBC, between MCI and Verizon and between AT&T and BellSouth, PAETEC Holding expects to face significant price and service competition with respect to its network services from these incumbents, which are the two largest incumbent carriers in the United States, as well as from other large established telephone companies that represent the dominant competition in all of PAETEC Holding’s service areas. PAETEC Holding expects to experience an overall increase in pricing pressures, particularly with respect to its network services, due to competition, volume-based pricing, and other factors. As a result, we cannot assure you that PAETEC Holding’s customers will select PAETEC Holding’s services over those of its competitors. In addition, prices for digital communications services in general have decreased historically, and we expect this trend to continue. As a result of these factors, we cannot predict whether demand for PAETEC Holding’s services will exist at prices that will enable it to maintain adequate market share or achieve significant revenue growth. PAETEC Holding’s business will be subject to a variety of risks based on its dependence on regulations that continue to change. Most of the network services and carrier services that PAETEC Holding will provide are subject to significant regulation and may be adversely affected by regulatory developments at the federal, state and local levels. These regulations, for example, can affect the types of services PAETEC Holding may offer, the rates it will be permitted to charge for its services and for the use of its network by other carriers, and the rates it must pay others for their services and for the use of their networks, all of which may reduce the revenue PAETEC Holding generates from its operating activities. Federal and state regulations also determine the level of contribution PAETEC Holding must make to state and federal telecommunication subsidy programs, as well as the terms under which PAETEC Holding may use any rights of way necessary for the operation of its business. If PAETEC Holding fails to comply with applicable regulations, or if the regulations change in a manner adverse to PAETEC Holding, including in any of the ways described in some of the following risk factors, its business and operating results may suffer. If the FCC Adopts the Missoula Plan or otherwise changes its rules on intercompany compensation, our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be negatively affected. If the FCC were to adopt the Missoula Plan for all traffic or otherwise change its rules on intercarrier compensation, it could have an adverse impact on PAETEC Holding’s ability to bill carriers for reciprocal compensation (including compensation for ISP-bound traffic) and access charges and could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC Holding’s results of operations, cash flow and financial position. If PAETEC Holding is required to reduce the prices it will charge for some or all of its network services, its profitability may be negatively affected and its ability to continue to generate positive cash flows from operations may be diminished. PAETEC Holding may be required to reduce the prices it will charge for some or all of its network services for the following reasons, which could adversely affect its profit margins and its ability to generate positive cash flows from operations: • the incumbent carriers in the markets PAETEC Holding serves already are offering the same or a similar bundle of local, long distance and data services that PAETEC Holding will offer; • the increasing use of data communications, including VoIP, by PAETEC Holding’s customers and target customers; • the mergers between AT&T and SBC, between MCI and Verizon and between AT&T and BellSouth may provide PAETEC Holding’s competitors with significant operating efficiencies and substantial financial and technical resources; • regulatory decisions generally have decreased regulatory oversight of incumbent carriers, which may increase the benefits these companies experience from their longstanding customer relationships and greater financial and technical resources, and may increase their ability to reduce prices for local and other network services by offsetting those reductions with revenue or profits generated by unrelated businesses, products or services; and • regulatory authorities have recently permitted incumbent carriers to price flexibly the rates they charge for some of the network services that PAETEC Holding will also provide rather than require them to charge a set rate. 20 Table of Contents If PAETEC Holding cannot continue to obtain key network elements from some of its primary competitors on acceptable terms, it may not be able to offer its local voice and data services on a profitable basis, if at all. PAETEC Holding will not be able to provide its local voice and data services on a profitable basis, if at all, unless PAETEC Holding is able to continue to obtain key network elements from some of its primary competitors on acceptable terms. To offer local voice and data services in a market, PAETEC Holding must connect its network with the networks of the incumbent carrier in a specific market. This relationship is governed by an interconnection agreement between the incumbent carrier and PAETEC Holding. PAETEC Holding’s network is interconnected in this manner with Verizon’s network in a majority of its markets under existing interconnection agreements with Verizon and, in a number of other markets, under existing interconnection agreements with BellSouth, which has merged with AT&T. PAETEC Holding also must lease from these or other providers the telephone and data transmission lines it needs to connect customers to its network. PAETEC Holding’s ability to provide its local voice and data services is dependent on existing regulations that require these network elements and wholesale services to be provided to competitive carriers on specified terms. Moreover, because PAETEC Holding relies on a limited number of suppliers for access to these network elements, it is vulnerable to the risk that it may not be able to renew its contracts with these suppliers on favorable terms or be able to obtain services promptly under these contracts. In addition, recent and pending regulatory developments and related judicial decisions have restricted the list of network components that incumbent carriers are required to make available to competitive carriers, such as PAETEC Holding, on a nondiscriminatory basis. These developments or similar future developments could limit or terminate PAETEC Holding’s access to the network components it needs to provide local voice and data services. As a result of these regulatory changes, incumbent carriers may, in the future, be able to increase significantly the rates they charge PAETEC Holding for these network elements and services, or even decline to provide some network services under some circumstances. Accordingly, the rates charged by incumbent carriers or other network services providers under future interconnection agreements, leases or resale arrangements may not enable PAETEC Holding to offer usage rates low enough to attract a sufficient number of network services customers or to operate at satisfactory profit margins. Before their mergers, AT&T and MCI offered some network services and elements in competition with the incumbent carriers. However the mergers between AT&T and SBC, between MCI and Verizon and between AT&T and BellSouth could significantly increase the cost of the high-speed circuits PAETEC Holding must lease to connect its customers to its switching equipment by reducing the number of providers that offer those high-speed circuits, thereby decreasing the competitive pressure on other carriers to maintain low rates for those circuits. The regulatory treatment of VoIP and other IP-based products could affect PAETEC Holding’s ability to collect access charges, which could materially adversely affect PAETEC Holding’s revenue. The regulatory treatment of VoIP could affect PAETEC Holding’s ability to collect access charges, especially to the extent that VoIP becomes a more significant service technology. In February 2004, the FCC initiated a proceeding to address the appropriate regulatory framework for VoIP providers. Currently, the status of various VoIP products and services as either telecommunications services or information services is unclear. Services classified as information services are regulated by the FCC under Title I of the Communications Act and have historically been exempted from access charges, while telecommunications services, which are regulated under Title II of the Communications Act, are subject to access charges. The access charge regime was established under the Telecommunications Act to compensate carriers for the use of the networks of other carriers. The FCC has determined that long distance telecommunications services that originate and terminate on the public switched telephone network but that used IP conversion to transport the call from its point of origination to its point of termination constitute telecommunications services. Accordingly, long distance telecommunications services that originate or terminate on the traditional telephone network are subject to access charges. The FCC also has held the retail VoIP services of at least one provider to be interstate in nature. However, that determination remains subject to a pending judicial review and the more general regulatory classification of VoIP traffic carried by this and certain other service providers is not clear and remains pending before the FCC. In addition to its ongoing proceeding, the FCC has before it numerous petitions filed by incumbent carriers and others specifically concerned with the application of access charges to VoIP providers. PAETEC Holding’s ability to collect access charges could be materially adversely affected if the FCC determines that VoIP or other types of IP-based products should not be subject to access charges. PAETEC Holding cannot predict the outcome of the FCC’s or reviewing courts’ determinations regarding VoIP services, but, if positions adverse to PAETEC Holding are adopted, the company’s revenues associated with the receipt of access charges could suffer. 21 Table of Contents PAETEC Holding’s operating performance will suffer if it is not offered competitive rates for the access services it needs to provide its long distance services. PAETEC Holding will depend on other telecommunications companies to originate and terminate a significant portion of the long distance traffic initiated by its network services customers. PAETEC Holding’s operating performance will suffer if it is not offered these access services at rates that are substantially equivalent to the rates charged to its competitors or that otherwise do not enable PAETEC Holding to have profitable pricing of its long distance services. Historically, access charges have made up a significant percentage of the overall cost associated with PAETEC’s and US LEC’s provision of long distance service. If PAETEC Holding cannot obtain access rates on a parity with its competitors, its business and operating results will be adversely affected. Significant price increases and uncertainties about the availability of broadband network elements could have a material adverse affect on PAETEC Holding’s business. In December 2004, the FCC adopted an order establishing new rules for unbundled network elements, or “UNEs.” Under the order, effective in March 2005, incumbent carriers are free to charge commercially available rates, instead of regulated rates, for such services and under some circumstances may decline to provide such services altogether. The majority of PAETEC Holding’s high capacity circuits are not UNE-based. Rather, the company leases the majority of their customer circuits and other dedicated transport facilities either directly from the incumbent carriers as special access facilities or from other competitive carriers. If PAETEC Holding seeks or needs to rely on UNEs, the FCC’s order could remove a significant opportunity for future cost savings for PAETEC Holding, which could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC Holding’s business operations. The FCC has undertaken a review of special access pricing which, if decided adversely to PAETEC Holding, could have an adverse impact on the prices it pays for components of its network. In January 2005, the FCC initiated a comprehensive review of rules governing the pricing of special access services offered by incumbent carriers that are subject to price cap regulation. Special access rates are currently subject to price cap regulations, coupled with pricing flexibility rules, which permit incumbent carriers to offer volume and term discounts with respect to special access services. Current regulations also permit the exemption of special access services in a defined geographic area from price cap controls based on showings of competition. The FCC’s review tentatively concluded that the FCC should continue to permit pricing flexibility where competitive market forces are sufficient to constrain special access prices. The FCC, however, has also proposed that an examination be undertaken to determine whether the current triggers for pricing flexibility, which are based on levels of collocation by competitors within the defined geographic area, provide an accurate assessment of competition. The FCC also has sought comment on whether some aspects of incumbent carriers’ special access tariff offerings are unreasonable, such as basing discounts on previous volumes of service, tying nonrecurring charges and termination penalties to term commitments, and imposing use restrictions in connection with discounts. Some of these offerings under consideration are particularly important to PAETEC Holding and, if found unreasonable by the FCC, could result in significant price increases for special access services. In view of the fact that the proposed rulemaking remains pending, PAETEC Holding cannot predict the impact, if any, implementation of the FCC’s proposals would have on its network cost structure. However, if any of the matters addressed in the proposed rulemaking are decided adversely to PAETEC Holding, such a decision could result in increased prices for special access services, which could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC Holding’s ability to purchase special access at competitive prices. In 2005, the FCC conditioned the mergers between AT&T and SBC and between Verizon and MCI on their preservation of pricing levels for some special access services for a period of 30 months, or until May 2008, in the case of the AT&T/SBC merger or until July 2008, in the case of the Verizon/MCI merger. More recently, in December 2006, the FCC imposed similar conditions, and in some cases required a reduction in special access pricing, in connection with the merger between AT&T and BellSouth until June 2010. Although these conditions are expected to preserve existing pricing levels for some special access services in the near term, the longer term effect of these conditions and their impact, if any, on PAETEC Holding’s ability to purchase special access at competitive rates is unclear, particularly if AT&T and Verizon are able to raise prices significantly for these special access services following the expiration of the conditions. In addition, the FCC’s order approving the merger between AT&T and BellSouth is expected to be subject to judicial review. PAETEC Holding cannot predict the result of any such review, including its effect on special access services. 22 Table of Contents Recent regulatory decisions exempting incumbent carriers from the provisions of Title II of the Communications Act with regard to the provision of certain broadband services could have an adverse effect on the cost of operating PAETEC Holding’s network. On December 20, 2004, Verizon filed a petition with the FCC seeking to forbear the application of Title II regulations to some stand-alone broadband services, such as ATM, Frame Relay and similar packet-switched or IP-based services. These regulations, among other things, require Verizon to price retail and wholesale services under tariff, provide those services as a carrier of last resort and maintain those services, including pricing, under the control of regulatory authorities. In March 2006, the FCC announced that Verizon’s forbearance petition was deemed granted, although this action is the subject of an appeal. Because the FCC issued no formal order, the scope of the forbearance grant is not clear. PAETEC Holding purchases some of the affected services from Verizon and is in discussions with Verizon as to the effect of the FCC’s action on current rates, terms and conditions of these. The FCC may consider further deregulation of the broadband services of other incumbent carriers, which could increase PAETEC Holding’s costs for some of these services. AT&T, Frontier, Sprint and others have filed similar petitions for forbearance. PAETEC Holding cannot predict the effect, if any, that the grant of this petition and similar forbearance requests will have on its network expenses, but if the rates, terms and conditions associated with current services subject to the petition are negotiated adversely to PAETEC Holding, its business could suffer. An inability to market and develop additional services may adversely affect PAETEC Holding’s ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. PAETEC Holding will offer local, long distance, data, Internet, VoIP and other telecommunications services. To address the future needs of its customers, PAETEC Holding is required to market and develop additional services. PAETEC Holding may not be able to continue to provide the range of telecommunication services that its customers need or seek. PAETEC Holding may lose some of its customers or be unable to attract new customers if it cannot offer these services. Regulatory initiatives may continue to reduce the maximum rates PAETEC Holding is permitted to charge long distance service providers for completing calls by their customers to customers served by its network, and for transferring calls by its customers onto their networks and for terminating local calls. The rates that PAETEC Holding charges long distance service providers for originating or terminating interstate and intrastate calls initiated by their customers to customers served by the PAETEC Holding network, and for transferring calls by its customers onto the long distance carrier’s network, cannot exceed the rates established by federal and, in some cases, state regulatory authorities. Currently, there are several pending FCC and state regulatory proceedings addressing these rates. The outcome of these proceedings could result in a material reduction in the permissible rates PAETEC Holding may charge some carriers for originating and terminating traffic. Similarly, the rates PAETEC Holding may charge to local carriers to terminate local calls made by their customers to PAETEC Holding’s customers are governed by state regulatory authorities and agreements between the local carriers and PAETEC Holding. In the future, various state regulatory authorities may institute proceedings aimed at reducing the rates PAETEC Holding may charge local service providers for terminating local traffic. Such reductions in originating and terminating rates could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC Holding’s business and cash flow. If PAETEC Holding is unable to raise additional capital, its ability to expand its business and to meet its obligations will be limited. The development and expansion of PAETEC Holding’s networks will require substantial capital investment. If PAETEC Holding chooses to accelerate the expansion of its business, it will require additional capital. It may also require additional capital to fund payments of its indebtedness as an increasing amount of its indebtedness becomes due and payable. If PAETEC Holding cannot successfully obtain additional financing for necessary purposes on acceptable terms, PAETEC Holding could be at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with significant capital or the ability to raise significant capital for expansion. Restrictions under PAETEC Holding’s senior secured credit facilities limit its ability to incur additional debt, and any additional debt may place significant limits on PAETEC Holding’s financial and operating flexibility. If PAETEC Holding is unable to manage its business effectively, its prospects for profitable operations will be harmed. To achieve and sustain operating profitability, PAETEC Holding is required to maintain its revenue, control expenses and otherwise manage its business efficiently. This places significant demands on PAETEC Holding’s management and other employees, its operational and financial systems, and its internal controls and procedures. If PAETEC Holding fails to manage its operations effectively, PAETEC Holding may experience higher costs of operations, a decline in service quality, the loss of customers, and other limitations that would adversely affect its prospects for profitable operations. 23 Table of Contents If PAETEC Holding is unable to maintain or enhance its back office information systems, it may not be able to increase its revenue as planned or compete effectively. Sophisticated back office information systems are vital to PAETEC Holding’s revenue growth and its ability to monitor costs, bill customers, initiate, implement and track customer orders and achieve operating efficiencies. To increase revenue, PAETEC Holding must select products and services offered by third-party vendors and efficiently integrate those products and services into its existing back office operations. PAETEC Holding may not successfully implement these products, services and systems on a timely basis, and its systems may fail to perform as it expects. A failure or delay in the expected performance of its back office systems could slow the pace of its expected revenue growth or harm its competitiveness by adversely affecting its service quality, which could lead to a loss of existing customers or a failure to attract and retain new customers. Changes in technology, service offerings and customer preferences could affect PAETEC Holding’s ability to compete in the marketplace for telecommunications and information services. PAETEC Holding faces rapid and significant changes in technology. The telecommunications industry has changed significantly over the past several years and is continuing to evolve rapidly. Emerging technologies and services, such as VoIP applications, broadband services and advanced wireless offerings, could alter the economic conditions under which the telecommunications and information services industry operates. New technologies also could lead to the development of new, more convenient and cost-effective services. In addition, the preferences and requirements of customers are rapidly changing. For example, telecommunications customers are increasingly using wireless forms of communication, such as handheld Internet-access devices and cell phones, which has resulted in a decline in the volume of voice traffic carried by traditional wireline telecommunications networks and has likely resulted in a decrease in the average minutes of use generated by customers of wireline communications services providers, including PAETEC Holding. PAETEC Holding expects this trend to continue. PAETEC Holding’s ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers may be highly dependent on whether it is able to deliver new technologies and services that have significant customer acceptance, whether it is able to adopt those new technologies and offer those new services in a timely and effective manner, and whether it is able to compete successfully against other service providers that introduce the same or similar new technologies and offer substantially similar new services. PAETEC Holding cannot predict the effect of technological changes on its business. The development and offering of new services in response to new technologies or consumer demands may require PAETEC Holding to increase its capital expenditures significantly. In addition, new technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may only be available to PAETEC Holding’s competitors and not to PAETEC Holding. If PAETEC Holding is unable to install additional network equipment or convert its network to more advanced technology, it may not be able to compete effectively. PAETEC Holding’s long-term business strategy may require it to convert its existing network to a network using more advanced technology. PAETEC Holding may not have or be able to raise the significant capital that a conversion may require, or be able to complete the installation of additional network equipment and the conversion to more advanced technology in a timely manner, at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. PAETEC Holding also may face technological problems that cannot be resolved. If PAETEC Holding is unable successfully to install or operate new network equipment or convert its network to a network using more advanced technology, it may not be able to compete effectively, and its results of operations could be adversely affected. Network failures or system breaches could cause delays or adversely affect PAETEC Holding’s service quality, which may cause PAETEC Holding to lose customers and revenue. In operating its network, PAETEC Holding must maintain connections for, and manage, a large number of customers and a large quantity of traffic at high speeds. Any failure or perceived failure to achieve or maintain high-speed data transmission could significantly reduce demand for PAETEC Holding’s services and adversely affect its operating results. PAETEC Holding has experienced outages, such as temporary switch outages, that have prevented it from providing uninterrupted services to some of its customers. Outages such as these have resulted in lost revenue and could cause PAETEC Holding to lose customers in the future. PAETEC Holding may, in the future, experience similar or more severe outages or other network failures or breaches. 24 Table of Contents In addition, computer viruses, break-ins, human error, natural disasters and other problems may disrupt PAETEC Holding’s network. The network security and stability measures PAETEC Holding implements may be circumvented in the future or otherwise fail to prevent the disruption of its services. The costs and resources required to eliminate computer viruses and other security problems may result in interruptions, delays or cessation of services to PAETEC Holding’s customers, which could result in a decrease in demand, decrease PAETEC Holding’s revenue and slow its planned expansion. If PAETEC Holding’s network or other ground facilities are damaged by natural catastrophes or terrorism, its ability to provide services may be interrupted and the quality of its services may be adversely affected. A major earthquake, hurricane, tornado, fire, terrorist attack on the United States, or other catastrophic event could damage PAETEC Holding’s network, network operations center, central offices or corporate headquarters. Such an event could interrupt PAETEC Holding’s service, adversely affect service quality and harm its business. PAETEC Holding does not have replacement or redundant facilities that it can use to provide alternative means of service to all customers or under every circumstance in the event of a catastrophic event. Any damage to PAETEC Holding’s network could result in degradation of its service for some customers and could result in complete loss of service in affected areas. If PAETEC Holding does not retain its senior management and continue to attract and retain qualified personnel and independent sales agents, it may not be able to execute its business plan. PAETEC Holding’s senior management team has extensive experience in the telecommunications industry. As a result, the loss of the services of one or more members of PAETEC Holding’s senior management could impair its ability to implement its integration plan and execute its business strategy, which could hinder its ability to achieve and sustain profitability. PAETEC Holding also could be less prepared to respond to technological or marketing developments, which could reduce its ability to serve its customers and could lower the quality of its services. PAETEC Holding has not entered into employment agreements with, and does not have key-man life insurance covering, any members of its senior management team. PAETEC Holding faces competition for qualified personnel, including management, technical and sales personnel. PAETEC Holding also relies on a large number of independent sales agents to market and sell its services. If PAETEC Holding is unable to attract and retain experienced and motivated personnel, including a large and effective direct sales force and a substantial number of sales agents, PAETEC Holding may not be able to obtain new customers or sell sufficient amounts of service to execute its business plan. PAETEC Holding and other industry participants are frequently involved in disputes over issues that are important to PAETEC Holding’s financial and operational success. Further legislation and regulatory rulemaking are expected to occur as the industry continues to deregulate and as PAETEC Holding enters new markets or offers new products. The introduction of new legislation or regulations adverse to PAETEC Holding could harm its business and operating results. The deregulation of the telecommunications industry, the implementation of the Telecommunications Act and the distress of many carriers in the telecommunications industry as a result of continued competitive factors and financial pressure have resulted in the involvement by numerous industry participants, including PAETEC Holding, in disputes, lawsuits, proceedings and arbitrations before state and federal regulatory commissions, private arbitration organizations such as the American Arbitration Association, and courts over many issues that will be important to the financial and operational success of PAETEC Holding. These issues include the interpretation and enforcement of existing interconnection agreements and tariffs, the terms of new interconnection agreements, operating performance obligations, inter-carrier compensation, access charges applicable to different categories of traffic, including traffic originating from or terminating on wireless networks, the jurisdiction of traffic for inter-carrier compensation purposes, the wholesale services and facilities available to PAETEC Holding, the price PAETEC Holding will pay for those services and facilities, and the regulatory treatment of new technologies and services. PAETEC Holding anticipates that it will continue to be involved in various disputes, lawsuits, arbitrations and proceedings over these and other material issues. PAETEC Holding also anticipates that further legislative and regulatory rulemaking will occur at the federal and state level as the industry faces further deregulation and as PAETEC Holding enters new markets or offers new products. New legislation or regulations adverse to PAETEC Holding and changes in governmental policy on issues material to PAETEC Holding could cause its business and prospects to suffer. 25 Table of Contents The outcome of the FCC pending rule-making proceeding addressing the proper framework for intercarrier compensation could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC Holding’s results of operations, cash flow and financial position. Intercarrier compensation, including exchange access and reciprocal compensation, are currently the subject of an ongoing proceeding before the FCC designed to reform the way carriers and service providers pay other carriers and providers for the use of their respective networks. A relatively recent filing at the FCC, known commonly as the Missoula Plan, is widely anticipated to be the blueprint for nationwide intercarrier compensation reform. The Missoula Plan provides a comprehensive proposal to reduce and unify interstate and intrastate, originating and terminating usage-sensitive intercarrier compensation rates for all traffic. If adopted, the Missoula Plan would create three classes of carriers and set forth a timetable for the unification of rates within each respective class. Class 1 consists of the regional Bell Operating Companies and their competitors, including competitive carriers such as PAETEC and US LEC, and wireless, cable and VoIP operators; Class 2 consists of mid-size wireline incumbents; and Class 3 consists of rural telephone companies. PAETEC Holding cannot predict the effect that the implementation of the Missoula Plan would have on its business or results of operations, although significant changes to the current rules governing intercarrier compensation, including implementation of the Missoula Plan, could have a material adverse effect on PAETEC Holding’s collection and payment of reciprocal compensation and access fees. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 