Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before investing in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information contained in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Any of the risks described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If one or more of these risks and uncertainties is realized, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Market If we are not able to maintain our past level of growth, our future prospects and competitive position could be diminished and our profitability could be reduced. We may not be able to sustain our growth at the rate we have enjoyed during the past several years. Our business strategy calls for, among other things: • continued growth of our assets, loans, deposits and customer base through our existing locations and new branches and loan production offices; • recruitment of sales-oriented personnel and other key employees; and • expansion of our real estate lending activities. Our rapid growth over the past several years has been driven in part by a strong residential housing market in west Puget Sound and our ability to identify attractive expansion opportunities. A downturn in local economic market conditions, particularly in the real estate market, a failure to attract and retain high performing employees, heightened competition from other financial services providers, and an inability to attract additional core deposits and lending customers, among other factors, could limit our ability to grow as rapidly as we have in the past. Over 94% of our loans are real estate related, including loans for construction and land development projects and for the purchase, improvement or refinancing of residential and commercial real estate. An adverse change in the real estate market could cause collateral for loans made by us to decline in value, and loan delinquencies and problem assets to increase. Approximately 94.5% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2006 was comprised of loans secured by real estate, including construction and development, commercial and residential real estate loans. Approximately 75% of our residential real estate loans are single family (1-4 units) and 25% are multifamily. A downturn in the real estate market could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the property collateralizing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Over 56% of our loans are real estate construction and development loans, which have a higher degree of risk and a greater potential for losses that would reduce our earnings. Approximately 56.5% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2006 consisted of real estate construction and development loans, which generally have a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing properties because repayment depends on the completion of the project and usually on the sale of the property. In addition, these loans are normally interest only. Interest-only loans carry greater risk than principal and interest loans do, to the extent that no principal is paid prior to maturity, particularly during a period of rising interest rates and declining real estate values. If there is a significant decline in the real estate market due to a material increase in interest rates or for other reasons, many of these loans could default and result in foreclosure. Moreover, most of these loans are for projects located in the west Puget Sound area. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, we may not be able to recover all of the unpaid portion of the loan or we may be required to fund additional money to complete the project or hold the property for an indeterminate period of time. Any of these outcomes may result in losses and reduce our earnings. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses due to loan defaults and non-performance on loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States to provide for such defaults and other non-performance. As of December 31, 2006, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans was 1.15%. The determination of the appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control. In addition, our underwriting policies, adherence to credit monitoring processes, and risk management systems and controls may not prevent unexpected losses. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. Moreover, any increase in our allowance for loan losses will adversely affect our earnings. We serve a limited geographic area, and an economic downturn in the west Puget Sound or Seattle Metropolitan Statistical Area could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. Our current geographic market consists primarily of the west Puget Sound area, including Kitsap County. The FDIC has characterized our headquarters in downtown Bremerton as being located in a “low income” area and our other branches and loan production offices as being located in “middle income” areas. As of December 31, 2006, our Kitsap County customers accounted for approximately 72% of our deposits and 82% of our loans. Because of our relatively small size and geographic concentration, adverse changes in local economic conditions, such as income levels, deposits and housing starts, would have a relatively greater affect on us than they would on the larger national and regional competitors that are active in our market areas. If local or regional economic conditions were to deteriorate, demand for our products and services likely would decline and the quality of our loan portfolio could be reduced. Kitsap County’s economy substantially depends on the military and tourism. While we believe that the local economy is diverse, the military has a significant presence in Kitsap County, including two major Navy bases which account for significant employment in the county. Although the federal government recently decided not to close any military bases in our market area, we cannot be certain that it will not do so in the future. We believe that few of our customers come from the military or its members, because most of their needs are met by a credit union. However, a significant reduction in the military presence in our market could have a material adverse effect on the local economy and potentially on our customers and business. In addition, the west Puget Sound area serves as a seasonal destination for many residents of the Seattle Metropolitan Statistical Area and a decline in that economy could affect real estate prices due to a slowdown in purchases by Seattle area residents as well as service businesses that rely on the seasonal traffic. 26 Table of Contents Our loan portfolio is concentrated in real estate and a substantial majority of our loans and operations are in west Puget Sound, and therefore our business is particularly vulnerable to a downturn in the local real estate market. As of December 31, 2006 approximately 94.5% of our loans were secured by real estate, primarily located in our west Puget Sound market. If the local economy, and particularly the real estate market, declines, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses in our loan portfolio would likely increase. As a result of this lack of diversification in our loan portfolio a downturn in the local real estate market could significantly reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. We have a relatively high percentage of unseasoned credits, which are considered to pose a potential greater repayment risk than loans that have been outstanding for a longer period of time. As a result of our strong growth during the past five years and our focus on real estate construction and development lending, a significant portion of our loan portfolio is represented by new credits. Generally, loans that are relatively new, referred to as unseasoned loans, do not have sufficient repayment history to determine the likelihood of repayment in accordance with their terms. At December 31, 2006, 88.2% of our total loan portfolio consisted of loans booked within the past two years, including loan renewals. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may incur higher than anticipated costs and our ability to execute our growth strategy could be impaired. We expect to continue to grow our assets and deposits by increasing our product and services offerings and expanding our operations through new branches, loan production offices and possibly acquisitions. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on our ability to: • identify suitable markets for expansion; • attract and retain qualified management; • attract funding to support additional growth; • maintain asset quality and cost controls; and • maintain adequate regulatory capital and profitability to support our lending activities. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to realize the benefit from the investments in technology, infrastructure, and personnel that we have made to support our expansion. In addition, we may incur higher costs and realize less revenue growth than we expect, which would reduce our earnings and diminish our future prospects, and we may not be able to continue to implement our business strategy and successfully conduct our operations. Risks associated with failing to maintain effective financial and operational controls as we grow, such as maintaining appropriate loan underwriting procedures, determining adequate allowances for loans losses and complying with regulatory accounting requirements, include increased loan losses, reduced earnings and potential regulatory penalties and restrictions on growth. Our growth could be hindered unless we are able to recruit additional qualified employees. We may have difficulty attracting additional necessary personnel, which may divert resources and limit our ability to successfully expand our operations. The west Puget Sound and Seattle Metropolitan Statistical Area are experiencing a period of significant growth, placing a premium on highly qualified employees in a number of industries, including the financial services industry. Our business plan includes, and is dependent upon, our hiring and retaining highly qualified and motivated employees at every level. In addition, we anticipate that the reporting and related obligations to which we will become subject as a public reporting company will require us to hire additional accounting and finance staff. We expect to experience substantial competition in identifying, hiring and retaining top-quality employees. If we are 27 Table of Contents unable to hire and retain qualified employees in the near term, we may be unable to successfully execute our business strategy and manage our growth. The unexpected loss of key officers would materially and adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy, and diminish our future prospects. We believe that our success to date and our prospects for success in the future are substantially dependent on our senior management team, which includes our president and chief executive officer, David K. Johnson, and certain other key executives. The loss of Mr. Johnson’s services or that of other key executives could materially and adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business plan and, as a result, our future prospects. In light of the relatively small pool of persons involved in the banking industry in western Washington, we could have difficulty replacing any of our senior management team or senior officers with equally competent persons who also are familiar with our market area. We are subject to extensive government regulation. Non-compliance with or material changes to existing regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. For example, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board recently issued joint Guidance on Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices, that sets forth supervisory criteria to assist bank examiners in identifying banks with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny. The Guidance applies to Westsound Bank, based on our current loan portfolio, and we expect that our business and operations will be subject to enhanced regulatory review for the foreseeable future. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or changes to the existing regulatory structure, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The FDIC recently found that we violated the reporting requirements of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and other consumer banking laws, imposed penalties of $6,000 and required our board to enter into a memorandum of understanding to correct the violations and related deficiencies in our internal controls. Our failure to correct violations in our reporting procedures could result in further regulatory action. The FDIC recently conducted an examination relating to Westsound Bank’s compliance with various banking regulations, which examination was unrelated to safety and soundness of the Bank. The FDIC noted deficiencies in the Bank’s regulatory compliance management system relating to oversight, procedures, training and our audit program for compliance. The FDIC found failures to comply with the reporting requirements of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, or HMDA, and violations of other banking-related consumer laws, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth-in-Lending Act and the Truth-in-Savings Act. In addition, the FDIC imposed civil money penalties of $6,000 for violations that it characterized as significant and repeated, and required Westsound Bank and our board to enter into a confidential memorandum of understanding with the FDIC in May 2006 to correct the regulatory violations and deficiencies in our internal controls for regulatory compliance. We have taken the corrective measures outlined in the memorandum and believe we are in substantial compliance with the memorandum. If we fail to comply with the memorandum in the future, the FDIC has the authority to impose civil monetary penalties of up to $5,500 per day for violations of this nature, depending on our financial resources as compared to other financial institutions, the severity of the violations, whether our failure to comply was intentional, the duration and frequency of the violations, our cooperation with the agency to resolve the problem and other facts and circumstances. In addition, the Bank’s record of compliance will be an additional factor in any application filed with federal regulators, including applications for new bank branches and acquisitions. 28 Table of Contents As a result of our initial public offering, we became a public reporting company subject to financial reporting and other requirements for which our accounting, internal audit and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared. As a result of our initial public offering, we became subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. These reporting and other obligations will place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit and accounting resources. We anticipate that we will need to upgrade our reporting systems and procedures, implement additional financial and management controls, enhance our internal audit function, and hire additional accounting and finance staff. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. In addition, expenses related to services rendered by our accountants, legal counsel and consultants will increase in order to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. Our profitability depends on interest rates generally, and we may be adversely affected by changes in market interest rates. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest income. Our net interest income depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change so that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. In addition, an increase in interest rates could adversely affect borrowers’ ability to pay the principal or interest on existing loans or reduce their desire to borrow more money. This may lead to an increase in our nonperforming assets, a decrease in loan originations, or a reduction in the value of and income from our loans, any of which could have a material and negative effect on our results of operations. Fluctuations in market rates and other market disruptions are neither predictable nor controllable and may adversely affect our financial condition and earnings. The ratio of variable to fixed rate loans in our loan portfolio, the ratio of short-term (maturing at a given time within 12 months) to long-term loans, and the ratio of our demand, money market and savings deposits to CDs (and their time periods), are the primary factors affecting the sensitivity of our net interest income to changes in market interest rates. As of December 31, 2006, 45.4% of our $344.7 million gross loan portfolio were variable rate loans and 54.6% were fixed rate loans. Our short-term loans are typically priced at prime plus a margin, and our long-term loans are typically priced based on a U.S. Treasury index for comparable maturities, plus a margin. In addition, approximately 71.9% of our fixed-rate loans receivable were short-term and approximately 28.1% were long-term, and 45.5% of our deposits were demand, money market and savings accounts and 54.5% were CDs. The composition of our rate sensitive assets or liabilities is subject to change and could result in a more unbalanced position that would cause market rate changes to have a greater impact on our earnings. We face strong competition from banks and other financial services providers that offer banking services, which may limit our ability to attract and retain banking clients. Competition in the banking industry generally, and in our geographic market specifically, is intense. Competitors include banks, as well as other financial services providers, such as savings and loan institutions, consumer finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include several larger national and regional financial institutions whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and ATMs, offer a wider array of banking services and conduct extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of a broader customer base than us. Larger competitors may also be able to offer better lending and deposit rates to customers, and could increase their competition as we become a public company and 29 Table of Contents our growth becomes more visible. Moreover, larger competitors may not be as vulnerable as us to downturns in the local economy and real estate market since they have a broader geographic area and their loan portfolio is diversified. We also compete against community banks that have strong local ties. These smaller institutions are likely to cater to the same small- and medium-sized businesses that we target. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue to grow our loan and deposit portfolios and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be adversely affected. Ultimately, we may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If we need additional capital in the future to continue our growth, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. Our business strategy calls for continued growth. We anticipate that we will be able to support this growth through the net proceeds from our initial public offering, as well as by adding deposits at existing and new branch locations. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our continued growth and to maintain our capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. Approximately 94.5% of our outstanding loan portfolio at December 31, 2006 was secured by real estate. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third-parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third-parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may grow through acquisitions, which strategy may not be successful or, if successful, may produce risks in successfully integrating and managing the acquisition. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions of financial institutions within and outside of our market. At this time we have no agreements or understandings to acquire any financial institution, and may not find suitable acquisition opportunities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, existing contracts, accounting processes and personnel of the target and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers of the target company; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; • risks of entering new markets or areas in which we have limited or no experience; • potential loss of key employees and customers from either our business or the target’s business; • assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities of the target; and 30 Table of Contents • inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing shareholders may be diluted, which could affect the market price of our common stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. We may be unable to, or choose not to, pay dividends on our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends depends on the following factors, among others: • we may not have sufficient earnings since our primary source of income, the payment of dividends to us by our subsidiary, Westsound Bank, is subject to federal and state laws that limit the ability of the Bank to pay dividends; • Federal Reserve Board policy requires bank holding companies to pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition; • we are also restricted from paying dividends on our common stock if we have deferred payments of the interest on, or an event of default has occurred with respect to, our junior subordinated debentures; and • our board of directors may determine that, even though funds are available for dividend payments, retaining the funds for internal uses, such as expansion of our operations, is a better strategy. We have not paid, and currently have no plans to pay, cash dividends to our shareholders after this offering. We face a variety of threats from technology based frauds and scams. Financial institutions are a prime target of criminal activities through various channels of information technology. We attempt to mitigate risk from such activities through policies, procedures, and preventative and defensive measures. In addition, we maintain insurance coverage designed to provide a level of financial protection to our business. However, risks posed by business interruption, fraud losses, business recovery expenses, and other potential losses or expenses that we may incur from a significant event are not readily predictable and, therefore, could have an impact on our results of operations. We rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and the failure of these systems could adversely affect our business. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. We outsource our major systems including our electronics funds transfer, or EFT, credit card and transaction processing and our online Internet bill payment and banking services. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal loans, provide customer service, facilitate collections and share data across our organization. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans and provide customer service or compromise our ability to collect loan payments in a timely manner. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Public Markets There has been no prior active trading market for our common stock. We cannot assure you that an active public trading market will develop or be maintained and, even if it does, our stock price may trade below the public offering price. There was no public market for our common stock prior to our initial public offering. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will lead to the development or maintenance of an active trading market on the Nasdaq or otherwise, or how liquid that market may become, especially if few stock analysts follow our stock or issue research reports concerning our business. In addition, we estimate that approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock is beneficially owned by our principal shareholders, executive officers and directors, who also hold options exercisable for an additional 148,135 shares of our common stock. The substantial amount of common stock that is owned by and issuable to our principal shareholders, executive officers and directors may adversely affect the development of an active and liquid trading market. Even if a market develops for our common stock, the market price of our common stock may experience significant volatility. Factors that may affect the price of our common stock include the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of our financial strength, conditions in the banking industry such as credit quality and monetary policies, and general economic and market conditions. Our quarterly operating results, changes in analysts’ earnings estimates, changes in general conditions in the economy or financial markets or other developments affecting us could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. One of the intended use of proceeds of our initial public offering is to implement our growth strategy, which includes expansion in the west Puget Sound and the Seattle Metropolitan Statistical Area. We may not successfully implement our growth strategy and therefore, our intended use of proceeds from the initial public offering may not result in an increase in our market value and profitability. One of the principal reasons for our raising the capital in the initial public offering was to be able to create a source of funds to be used for growth of our current operations and opening new branches and loan production offices. If we are not successful in implementing our growth strategy, our market value and profitability may suffer. A significant number of shares of our common stock will become eligible for sale in the public market 180 days (and in one case 60 days) after the completion of our initial public offering on December 19, 2006, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our officers, directors, and one of our principal shareholders (shareholders holding more than 5.0% of our common stock), have agreed with the underwriters not to sell or otherwise dispose of any of their shares for a period of 180 days after December 19, 2006, except that one of our directors is permitted to sell up to 3,000 shares for living expenses after this offering, subject to the resale restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. When these lock-up agreements expire, these shares and the shares underlying any options held by these individuals will become eligible for sale, in some cases subject only to the volume, manner of sale and notice requirements of Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Sales of a substantial number of these shares in the public market after this offering, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Our directors and senior management exert significant influence over us. Their interests may not coincide with yours and they may make decisions with which you may disagree. Our executive officers, directors, and principal shareholders beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock and approximately 28% of our common stock on a fully-diluted basis, assuming exercise of all outstanding stock options for 954,960 shares. Another 322,765 shares are reserved for future issuance under our Stock Option Plan. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, could control substantially all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these 32 Table of Contents shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interest of other shareholders. Accordingly, these shareholders could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that you would not approve or make decisions with which you may disagree. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved SEC staff comments. 