Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business Our inability to maintain relationships with manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We distribute more than 40,000 products sourced from more than 1,500 manufacturers. We currently do not manufacture any of our products and are dependent on manufacturers for our supply of products. Our top 10 manufacturer-supplied products accounted for approximately 60% of our purchases in fiscal 2009, and one manufacturer, Pfizer, Inc., or Pfizer, accounted for approximately 20% of our purchases. Our ability to sustain our gross margins has been, and will continue to be, dependent in part upon our ability to obtain favorable terms and access to new and existing products from our manufacturers. These terms may be subject to changes from time to time by manufacturers. Any such changes could adversely affect our net sales and operating results. We do not typically have long-term written agreements with our manufacturers. Most of our agreements with manufacturers are for one-year periods, and in many cases, we do not have any contract with our manufacturers. Upon expiration, we may not be able to renew our existing agreements on favorable terms, or at all. If we lose the right to distribute products under such agreements, we may lose access to certain products and thus lose a competitive advantage. Potential competitors could sell products from manufacturers that we fail to continue with and erode our market share. The loss of one or more of our large manufacturers, a material reduction in their supply of products to us or material changes in the payment or pricing terms we obtain from them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our manufacturers compete with us by selling directly to veterinarians and animal owners and other manufacturers may also decide to compete with us in the future by pursuing or increasing their efforts in direct marketing and sales of their products. These manufacturers could sell their products at lower prices and maintain a higher gross margin on their product sales than we can. In this event, veterinarians or animal owners have and may increasingly elect to purchase animal health products directly from these manufacturers. Increased competition from any manufacturer of animal health products could significantly reduce our market share and adversely impact our financial results. In addition, we may not be able to establish or maintain relationships with key manufacturers in the animal health products industry if we have established relationships with competitors of these key manufacturers. Our inability to establish or maintain such relationships could have a material adverse effect on our net sales or gross profit. An adverse change in manufacturer rebates or our inability to meet applicable rebate targets has decreased our margins in the past and could continue to materially and negatively affect our business. The terms under which we purchase products from many manufacturers of animal health products entitle us to receive a rebate based on the attainment of various goals, including certain growth goals and sales targets. Rebates have a material impact on our profitability. We cannot assure you as to the amount of rebates that we will receive in any given year. Factors outside of our control, such as customer preferences or manufacturer supply issues, can have a material impact on our ability to achieve the growth goals established by our manufacturers, which may reduce the amount of rebates we receive. Manufacturers may fail to pay rebates earned, or adversely change the terms of some or all of these rebate programs. For example, during fiscal 2009, one of our key manufacturers eliminated a portion of its rebate program previously offered to its distributors. If this elimination becomes a permanent change in such manufacturer's rebate program, or other manufacturers initiate changes to their existing rebate programs, this may have a material adverse effect on our gross profit and operating results in any given quarter or year. Further manufacturers may reduce or eliminate the amount of rebates offered under their programs, increase the growth goals or other conditions we must meet to earn rebates to levels that we are unable to achieve, or fail to pay amounts earned under their programs. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our profitability. 11 The outbreak of an infectious disease within an animal population could have a significant adverse effect on our business and results of operations. An outbreak of disease affecting animals, such as foot-and-mouth disease, Newcastle disease, avian flu and bovine spongiform encephalopathy, commonly referred to as “mad cow disease,” could result in the widespread destruction of potentially affected animals to limit any such highly contagious diseases. Such destruction could result in a reduction in demand for animal health products, such as our pharmaceuticals, biologicals, and medicated additives, which represent a significant portion of our fiscal 2009 net sales. In addition, outbreaks of or concerns about these or other diseases could create unfavorable publicity that may have a material adverse effect on consumer demand for meat, dairy and poultry products, and, as a result, on our customers’ demand for the products we distribute. The outbreak of a disease among the companion animal population could cause a reduction in the demand for companion animals, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business. The loss of products or delays in product availability from one or more manufacturers could substantially harm our business. We generally purchase products from our manufacturers through purchase orders rather than through long-term supply agreements. There can be no assurance, however, that our manufacturers will be able to meet their obligations under these purchase orders or that we will be able to compel them to do so. We face the following risks by relying on manufacturers: • Some of our manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by regulatory authorities, including the FDA, the USDA, the EPA, the DEA and other federal and state agencies for compliance with strictly enforced regulations. We do not have control over our manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Violations by our manufacturers could potentially lead to interruptions in our supply that could lead to lost sales to competitive products that are more readily available. • If a purchase order cannot be filled or a certain product line is discontinued or recalled, then we would not be able to continue to offer our customers the same breadth of products. Our sales and operating results would likely suffer unless we were able to find an alternate supply of a similar product. • Agreements may commit us to certain minimum purchase levels or other spending obligations. It is possible we will not be able to meet such obligations, which would create an increased drain on our financial resources and liquidity. • If market demand for our products increases suddenly, our current manufacturers might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand. If we generate more demand for a product than one of our manufacturers is capable of handling, we could experience large backorders and potentially lost sales to competitive products that are more readily available. • We may not be able to control or adequately monitor the quality of products we receive from our manufacturers. Poor quality products could damage our reputation with our customers or subject us to potential legal liability to such customers. Potential problems with manufacturers such as those discussed above, could substantially decrease sales of our products, lead to higher costs and damage our reputation with our customers. 12 Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to factors outside of management’s control. Our quarterly operating results may significantly fluctuate, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future results. Our future net sales and results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to a combination of factors, many of which are outside of management’s control. The most important of these factors include: • manufacturer rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals; • changes in the way manufacturers introduce products to market; • fluctuations in commodity prices; • seasonality; • changes in customer demands; • the impact of general economic trends on our business; • the recall of a significant product by one of our manufacturers; • changes in climate (e.g., droughts); • increases in reserves for bad debts; and • competition. For example, our rebates have historically been highest during the quarter ended December 31, since most of the manufacturers’ rebate programs were designed to include targets to be achieved during the calendar year. In addition, our net sales have historically been seasonal, with peak sales in our second and fourth fiscal quarters. However, we anticipate that manufacturer rebates for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 will not be as strong as compared to the same quarter in prior years due to manufacturers shifting growth goals from annual to quarterly or trimester goals and the elimination of an annual rebate program by a key vendor. We may be unable to reduce operating expenses quickly enough to offset any unexpected shortfall in net sales. If we have a shortfall in net sales without a corresponding reduction to our expenses, operating results may suffer. Our operating results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of future operating results. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Loss of key personnel could adversely affect our operations. We are currently dependent to a significant degree upon the ability and experience of our senior executives, including President and Chief Executive Officer James Robison. We currently have employment agreements with these executives that contain non-competition restrictions following termination of employment. The loss of any of our senior executives could adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations or to achieve growth through acquisitions. In addition, we are dependent upon our group presidents and our sales representatives to market and sell our products and provide our services. These individuals develop relationships with our customers that could be damaged if these employees are not retained. We face intense competition for the hiring and retention of these representatives. We expect such competition to increase in the event that general economic conditions continue or worsen. Any failure on our part to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified sales representatives would damage our business. We generally enter into agreements that contain confidentiality and non-solicitation provisions with our employees. We actively pursue former employees who breach their obligations to us, as well as competitors which interfere with our agreements with our employees. 13 Our market is highly competitive. Failure to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The sale and distribution of animal health products is highly competitive, continually evolving and subject to technological change. We compete directly with both geographically diverse and regional, broad-line animal health products distributors, as well as companies that specialize in distributing primarily ethical drug products to veterinarians and over-the-counter drugs directly to animal owners and other end-users. Additionally, certain manufacturers currently compete through the direct marketing of products, and other manufacturers may decide to do so in the future. We compete with numerous manufacturers and distributors based on customer relationships, service and delivery, product selection, price and e-commerce capabilities. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we do. Many of our competitors have comparable product lines or distribution strategies that directly compete with ours. Our competitors could obtain exclusive rights to distribute certain products, eliminating our ability to distribute those products. Most of our products are available from several sources, including other distributors and manufacturers, and our customers typically have relationships with several distributors and manufacturers. Because we generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers, our customers could buy products from our competitors. If we do not compete successfully against these organizations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our primary competitors, excluding manufacturers, include the following and other national, regional, local and specialty distributors: Butler Animal Health Supply, LLC, IVESCO, LLC (Iowa Veterinary Supply), Lextron, Inc., MWI Veterinary Supply, Inc., Professional Veterinary Products, Ltd. and Webster Veterinary Supply, a division of Patterson Companies, Inc. In addition, consolidation in the animal health products industry could result in existing competitors increasing their market share, which could give them greater pricing power, decrease our net sales and profitability and increase the competition for our customers. The general economic downturn may adversely affect our business. A deepening or protraction of the general economic downturn could further increase volatility in feed and animal protein commodity prices, reduce or eliminate sources of credit available to our customers, as well as reduce consumer discretionary spending on animal health products. Such volatility and/or tightening of credit could further deteriorate the financial condition of our customers, and may ultimately lead our customers to reduce their working capital. As a result, we may experience reduced demand for our products and services, and may be unable to collect amounts owed, each of which could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we believe that this is not a permanent trend in the market and that demand will return as commodity prices normalize, a further decline in animal protein commodity prices combined with a further increase in feed commodity prices could significantly impact the financial viability of our production animal customers, and could limit our ability to maintain market share and return to profitability. Consolidation among animal health product vendors may decrease our sales and profitability. On January 26, 2009, Pfizer announced that it had entered into an agreement to acquire all of the outstanding stock of Wyeth. Pfizer and Fort Dodge, a division of Wyeth, are our two largest vendors as measured by our revenue. On March 9, 2009, Merck announced that it had entered into an agreement to acquire all of the outstanding stock of Schering-Plough. Merial Limited, a joint venture between Merck & Co., Inc. and Sanofi Aventis S.A., and Intervet-Schering, a subsidiary of Schering-Plough, are also two of our largest vendors. Consolidation among animal health products vendors could result in our vendors increasing their market share, which could give them greater pricing power and make it easier for such vendors to sell their products directly to animal health customers, both of which would decrease our net sales and profitability. Finally, if our current vendors consolidate, their management teams are more likely to change, which could result in adverse changes in distribution practices. 14 Consolidation among our customers may decrease our net sales and profitability. We believe that consolidation of the highly fragmented customer base in the animal health products market is accelerating due to the volatility in feed and animal protein commodity prices and more limited sources of credit available to our customers. For example, according to the USDA, the number of cow/calf operations in the United States decreased by approximately 209,000 operations, or 22% from 2007 to 2008. As individual customers grow in size through consolidation, the loss of any one of them would have an increasingly adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. Furthermore, as our current customers consolidate, their management teams are more likely to change, which could result in changes in purchase practices and potentially result in the loss of such customers’ business. Unprecedented volatility in the animal health products market may limit our ability to return to profitability. Our return to profitability depends on, among other things, our ability to implement and/or maintain each of the following: • sales and marketing programs; • customer service levels; • current and new product and service lines; • manufacturer relationships; • technological support which equals or exceeds our competitors; • recruitment and training of new personnel; and • operational and financial control systems. Our ability to successfully offer products and services and implement our business plan requires an effective planning and management process. We expect that we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and to expand the training of our employees. While we believe our current systems have sufficient capacity to meet our projected needs, we may need to increase the capacity of our current systems to meet additional or unforeseen demand. If we are not able to manage our growth, our customer service quality could deteriorate, which could result in decreased sales or profitability. Further, the cost of our operations may not decline as rapidly as our decline in net sales, negatively impacting our profitability. We are subject to currency exchange rate risks. We conduct operations in Canada and Taiwan involving transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies will have an impact on our income. We cannot assure that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to fulfill our debt obligations and otherwise adversely impact our business and growth prospects. As of June 30, 2009, we had outstanding indebtedness under our credit agreements of $122.9 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our revolving credit facility, term loan indebtedness and other current and future indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions and exploiting business opportunities; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Furthermore, substantially all of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates. We currently hedge exposure for $95.0 million of our indebtedness with interest rate swap agreements that effectively convert our floating rate interest to fixed rates. For the indebtedness that remains subject to floating rate interest, if these rates were to increase significantly, our ability to borrow additional funds may be reduced and the risks related to our substantial indebtedness would intensify. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our indebtedness, and to fund our operations, working capital and capital expenditures, depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow, and additional borrowings or refinancings or proceeds of asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations. In addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness include certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make certain payments, sell assets, enter into certain transactions with affiliates and create liens. Moreover, certain of these agreements require us to maintain specified financial ratios. These and other covenants in our current and future agreements may restrict our ability to fully pursue our business strategies and adversely affect our growth prospects. Our ability to comply with such covenants may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness, which could cause those and other obligations to become due and payable. Changes in consumer preferences could adversely affect our business. The demand for production animal health products is heavily dependent upon consumer demand for beef, dairy, poultry and swine. The food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. Trends within the food industry change often and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our animal health products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, even if we do anticipate and identify these trends, we may be unable to react effectively. For example, changes in consumer diets may negatively affect consumer demand for beef, dairy, poultry and/or swine, and therefore reduce the demand for our production animal health products. During previous downturns in these markets, we experienced prolonged declines in sales and profitability. 16 We could face considerable business and financial risk in implementing our acquisition strategy. As part of our growth strategy, from time to time we consider acquiring complementary businesses. We regularly engage in discussions with respect to possible acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business. Acquisitions involve a number of risks relating to our ability to integrate an acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating the operations of an acquired business, particularly its personnel, could cause interruptions to our business. Some of the risks we face include: • the need to spend substantial operational, financial and management resources in integrating new businesses, technologies and products, and difficulties management may encounter in integrating the operations, personnel or systems of acquired businesses; • retention of key personnel, customers and manufacturers of the acquired business; • the occurrence of a material adverse effect on our existing business relationships with customers or manufacturers, or both, resulting from future acquisitions or business combinations could lead to a termination of or otherwise affect our relationships with such customers or manufacturers; • impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets; and • contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated costs and problems arising in, an acquired business. The risks associated with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect upon our business. If we fail to comply with or become subject to more onerous government regulations, our business could be adversely affected. The animal health products industry is subject to changing political and regulatory influences. Both state and federal government agencies regulate the distribution of certain animal health products and we are subject to regulation, either directly or indirectly, by the FDA, USDA, EPA, DEA, the Department of Transportation and state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state and foreign agencies. The regulatory stance these agencies take could change. In addition, our manufacturers are subject to regulation by the FDA, the USDA, the EPA, the DEA, and other federal and state agencies, and material changes to the applicable regulations could affect our manufacturers’ ability to manufacture certain products, which could adversely impact our product supply. In addition, some of our customers may rely, in part, on farm and agricultural subsidy programs. Changes in the regulatory positions that impact the availability of funding for such programs could have an adverse impact on our customers’ financial positions, which could lead to decreased sales of our products to them. We strive to maintain compliance with these laws and regulations. If we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or other restrictions on our ability to provide competitive distribution services, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. We cannot assure you that existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new, more restrictive laws will not be adopted or become applicable to us or the products that we distribute. We cannot assure you that the manufacturers of products that may become subject to more stringent laws will not try to recover any or all increased costs of compliance from us by increasing the prices at which we purchase products from them, or, that we will be able to recover any such increased prices from our customers. We also cannot assure you that our business and financial condition will not be materially and adversely affected by future changes in applicable laws and regulations. We may be subject to product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business. We distribute products that are manufactured exclusively by third parties. As a result, we have no control over the manufacturing process and face the risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business. We maintain insurance policies, and in many cases we have indemnification rights against such claims from the manufacturers of the products we distribute. However, our ability to recover under insurance or indemnification arrangements is subject to the terms of such arrangements and the financial viability of the insurers and manufacturers. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage or the manufacturers’ indemnity will be available or sufficient in any future cases brought against us. 17 Operational problems at our central replenishment and distribution facility or any of our distribution locations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 44% of the dollar volume of our product sales flow through our central replenishment and distribution facility located in Memphis, Tennessee. Unforeseen or recurring operational problems at this facility or any of our other distribution facilities could impair or disrupt our ability to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner, and could have a material adverse effect upon our customer relationships, business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we do carry property insurance, which may protect us in the event of certain inventory losses, we do not carry business interruption insurance. Therefore, we will not be compensated for certain losses that may occur as a result of a major disruption to our facilities. Disruptions at any of our facilities could be caused by: • maintenance outages; • prolonged power failures or reductions; • disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including railroad tracks, bridges, tunnels or roads; • fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophic disasters; • labor difficulties; or • other operational problems. If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, our financial results could be adversely affected. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights, including trademarks, trade names, and patents. Third parties may claim that our proprietary branded products infringe their trademarks and/or trade names; that our consultative services infringe a patented machine, process, or business method; and/or that our products infringe such third parties’ patented animal health products. We have been the recipient of such claims in the past. We have not conducted an independent review of trademarks or patents issued to third parties. The large number of trademarks and patents, the rapid rate of new trademark and patent issuances, the complexities of the technology involved in patents and uncertainty of litigation increase the risk of business assets and management’s attention being diverted to intellectual property litigation. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • cause us to cease making, licensing or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign, reengineer, or rebrand our products or packaging, if feasible; • divert management’s attention and resources; or • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license or royalty agreements, or stop the sale of certain products, any of which could have a negative impact on our financial results and harm our future prospects. Our intellectual property rights may be inadequate to protect our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on our trademarks, trade names, service marks, and brand names to distinguish our proprietary branded products and services from the products and services of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks and servicemarks. We cannot assure you that our trademark and servicemark applications will be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark and servicemark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks and servicemarks. In the event that our marks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our proprietary branded products and services, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertise and market new brands. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe upon our marks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our marks. 18 The pursuit and assertion of patent rights, involve complex legal and factual determinations and, therefore, are characterized by some uncertainty. In addition, the laws governing patentability and the scope of patent coverage continue to evolve. As a result, we cannot assure you that patents will be issued from any of our patent applications. The scope of any of our patents, if issued, may not be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. In addition, our patents, if they are issued, may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable so that our patent rights might not create an effective competitive barrier for certain of our niche products. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe upon our patent, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patent. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our proprietary branded products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to indemnify our customers for any damages they suffer. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our products. We are subject to significant environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures and liabilities. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, air and wastewater discharges, the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of pesticides, hazardous waste and toxic substances. Pursuant to some of these laws and regulations, we are required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. We incur costs to comply with such laws, regulations and permits, and we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We could also be responsible for costs incurred relating to contamination at our third party waste disposal sites or relating to damages incurred as a result of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage caused by our operations or our disposal of waste. In addition, our past and present ownership or operation of real property that is contaminated with hazardous or toxic substances could also result in an obligation to perform or pay for a clean-up or other damages, regardless of whether we knew of or were responsible for such contamination. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot assure you that our costs and liabilities relating to these current and future laws will not adversely affect our business or profitability. Performance problems with our information systems could damage our business. We currently process all customer transactions and data at our facilities located in Westlake, Texas. Although we have safeguards for emergencies, including, without limitation, back-up systems, the occurrence of a major catastrophic event or other system failure at any of our distribution facilities could interrupt data processing or result in the loss of stored data. This may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in demand for our services. Only some of our systems are fully redundant and we do not carry business interruption insurance. If a disruption occurs, our profitability and results of operations could suffer. Our information systems are dependent on third party software, global communications providers, telephone systems and other aspects of technology and Internet infrastructure that are susceptible to failure. While we have implemented security measures and some redundant systems, our customer satisfaction and our business could be harmed if we or our manufacturers experience any system delays, failures, loss of data, outages, computer viruses, break-ins or similar disruptions. We have recorded a charge to earnings as a result of impairment in our goodwill, and we may be required to record an additional charge to earnings if our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired in the future. As of June 30, 2009, our balance sheet included goodwill and other intangible assets totaling $125.0 million. As of June 30, 2009, we performed our annual impairment test of goodwill and other intangible assets. As a result of this testing, we concluded that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeded its fair value, and we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $25.2 million. The carrying values of all other intangible assets were not impaired. A future significant decline in our fair value could cause additional impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. If impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined, we will be required to record an additional charge to earnings in the period of such determination. 19 Risks related to the common stock and our capital structure There is a limited history of a trading market for our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. As a result, our stockholders could lose a significant part of their investment. There has been a public market for our common stock only since the completion of our initial public offering in January 2007. The trading market in our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Broad market and industry conditions and trends may cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. An active trading market for shares of our common stock may not be sustained on a consistent basis. The public trading price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including: • depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perception of our business; • profit margins in the animal health products industry generally; • reported progress of our business, relative to investor expectations; • changes in earnings estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earning estimates; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; • future sales of our common stock; • announcements by us, or our competitors, of acquisitions, significant contracts, or commercial relationships; • commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; • any major change in our board of directors or management; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • a lack of, limited, or negative industry or security analyst coverage; and • the other factors described elsewhere in these “Risk Factors.” As a result of these factors, our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at, or above, their purchase price. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Market in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of certain companies’ securities, securities class-action litigation has been instituted against these companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 20 Future sales of our shares could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have been a public company only since January 2007. For the quarterly period ended June 30, 2009, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has been less than 51,000 shares. Any future sale by us or our current stockholders of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Substantially all of the holders of our common stock who acquired their shares prior to our initial public offering have rights, subject to some limited conditions, to demand that we file a registration statement on their behalf to register their shares or that we include their shares in a registration statement that we file on our behalf or on behalf of other stockholders. If such demand rights are exercised pursuant to the terms and conditions of the registration rights agreement and we are required to file an additional registration statement, we will incur significant expenses in connection with the filing of such registration statement. Additionally, the filing of an additional registration statement at the request of the stockholders may divert the attention of our senior management from our business operations. Our directors and certain significant stockholders exercise significant control over us. Our directors and significant stockholders, including investment funds affiliated with Charlesbank Capital Partners LLC, or Charlesbank, Heartland Advisors, Inc., and investment funds associated with Waddell & Reed, Inc., collectively control approximately 55% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to influence all matters requiring stockholder approval in ways that may not align with your interest as a stockholder, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us even if beneficial to you as a stockholder and might affect the market price of our common stock. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us. Issuances of our equity securities to provide this capital may dilute your ownership in us. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: • take advantage of expansion opportunities; • acquire complementary businesses or technologies; • develop new services and products; • pay down or retire debt obligations; or • respond to competitive pressures. Any additional capital raised through the issuance of our equity securities may dilute your percentage ownership interest in us. Furthermore, any additional financing we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. The unavailability of needed financing could adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and therefore you will likely not receive any return on your investment without selling your shares. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding the growth of our business and repayment of existing indebtedness, and therefore, we do not currently anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, our credit agreements restrict us from paying such dividends. 21 Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may deter third parties from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of us more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: • our board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • only our board of directors may call special meetings of our stockholders; • our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; • we have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • stockholder approval of amendments of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws require a vote of 75% of our outstanding shares; • vacancies on the board of directors may be filled only by the directors; • our directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% of the votes that all stockholders would be entitled to cast in the election of directors; and • we require advance notice for stockholder proposals. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of us. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions that you desire. 22 Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder absent prior approval of our board of directors. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 