ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business, including our financial statements and the notes to those statements, and us. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, could negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition in the future. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, it could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward- looking statements contained in this Form 10-K because of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere. Risks Relating to Our Business. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for the majority of products we sell. If any of these suppliers fails or refuses to provide us with products on a timely basis or if they provide us with products of inferior quality, our business and financial performance could adversely affected. All of our products are manufactured and/or assembled by third parties, many of which are located in Asia. We depend on these third parties to supply us with quality products in a timely and efficient manner. If they fail to do so, we may have to find other sources to meet our inventory needs. This could result in increased costs that we may not be able to pass on to our customers, lost sales opportunities, and/or a decrease in customer satisfaction, which could damage our reputation. Historically, we have had one major battery supplier that accounted for 30% and 46% of our inventory purchases in 2012 and 2011, respectively. In 2012, we have sourced additional battery supplier that accounted for 12%. Given the volume of our purchases from these factories, we believe we were able to obtain preferential delivery and pricing, which, we further believe provided us with a competitive advantage. In 2011, the Chinese government forced our largest supplier to shut down which caused us to increase our purchases from other suppliers and to find additional suppliers. While this mitigates the supply chain risk somewhat, it does not eliminate it. In addition, we cannot assure you that our new suppliers will be able to provide us with the same competitive advantages that we enjoyed with our former principal supplier. If these new suppliers cannot provide us with sufficient product in a timely manner or if the quality of their product is inferior or if the price at which they are willing to sell product to us is not competitive, our reputation as well as our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. Our revolving credit agreement contains restrictive covenants that could impede our growth and our ability to compete. Our working capital requirements are significant. To fund our operations we rely on cash flow from operations and a $30.0 million working capital revolving credit facility. The credit facility restricts us in many ways and these restrictions, as well as the amount of the debt we carry at any one time, may have an adverse impact on our business. First, all of our assets, including inventory and receivables, secure the indebtedness under the credit facility. If we were to breach any of the terms of our agreement with the bank and the bank were to exercise its right to declare a default and a court of competent jurisdiction determined that we are in default, the bank could foreclose on its security interests. Any foreclosure action could cause us to seek protection under the federal bankruptcy code, which, in turn, would have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate at a level required to maintain or achieve profitability and as a result, adversely impacting our business. 10 Second, the agreement contains customary negative covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions without the lender’s consent, including incurring additional indebtedness, transferring or encumbering assets, and acquiring other businesses. Upon certain specified events of default, including failure to pay, bankruptcy, breach of covenants and breach of representations and warranties the lender could accelerate the due date for the repayment of the loan. Third, the agreement requires us to maintain various financial ratios and satisfy various other financial and operating requirements and conditions. In addition, our failure to satisfy these ratios, requirements and conditions could result in a breach of the loan covenants, giving the bank the right to declare a default and commence proceedings to collect the debt. Our ability to satisfy these ratios, requirements and conditions may be effected by events that are beyond our control. These ratios, requirements and conditions together with the negative covenants may restrict or limit our operating flexibility, limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. Fourth, our ratio of total liabilities to total market capitalization may exceed that of other companies in our industry. As a result, an investment in us could be more risky than an investment in our competitors. In addition, the total amount of our debt makes us particularly susceptible to changes in general economic conditions or even adverse changes in the financial condition in one or more of our significant customers. To meet our operating and debt service requirements, which are significant, we must take steps to assure that our existing customer base is comprised of businesses having financial resources sufficient to assure timely payment for our product shipments and that we identify creditworthy potential customers. Finally, the borrowings under our credit facility are and will continue to be at a variable rate based upon prevailing interest rates, which exposes us to risk of increased expense if interest rates rise. Any disruption in our ability to move our goods from the manufacturers to our logistics centers or from our logistic centers to our customers could result in lost business. Substantially all of our products are manufactured outside the United States, and most of our products are then shipped from one of our logistics centers to our customers. As a result, we depend on third parties, principally shippers and shipping brokers, freight forwarders and customs brokers, to facilitate our transportation needs. Transportation delays or interruptions, such as those caused by labor strikes, natural disasters, terrorism, inspection delays, import restrictions, bad weather or acts of war, could impede our ability to deliver our products to our customers on a timely basis. These delays could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, these interruptions could increase our costs, if, for example, we are forced to ship our products via air rather than ocean freight or if insurance costs were to increase significantly because of terrorism or acts of war. We depend on foreign manufacturers, which expose us to various financial, political and economic risks. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we purchased approximately 84% and 71%, respectively, of our products through foreign sources, predominantly in China. In some instances, particularly when we are dealing with a new supplier, we are required to finance the tooling cost that the factory incurs to meet our requirements. We are at risk if the factory cannot deliver the goods to us. The following could adversely affect our ability to sell certain products: · increases in tariffs or duties; · changes in trade treaties; · strikes or delays in air or sea transportation; · future legislation with respect to pricing and/or import quotas on products imported from foreign countries; 11 · changes in local laws and regulations; · natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes and tsunamis; · wars, hostilities or other military activity; · expropriation of private enterprises; · currency limitations including restrictions on repatriation or transfer of funds; and · turbulence in offshore economies or financial markets. Other governmental actions and policy changes, including anti-dumping and international antitrust legislation, could also adversely affect our ability to be competitive with respect to sales of products made up of imported components. Currency fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Although we record all of our transactions in U.S. dollars, adverse currency fluctuations could have one or more of the following consequences: · make components manufactured abroad more expensive; · cause shortages due to unfavorable export conditions; or · cause foreign suppliers to limit exports to the United States. Significant changes in the value of the Chinese currency, Reminbi, relative to the U.S. dollar increases the cost of goods and raw materials for Chinese manufacturers, which they incorporate into the price of goods that we purchase from them. However, if we are unable to pass any such price increase onto our customers our profit margins will be reduced. We cannot assure you that future currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results in the future. Some of our customers operate in industries that are cyclical, which causes our operating results to fluctuate significantly. Many of the products that rely on batteries and related power accessories constitute discretionary purchases. Consumer spending is unpredictable and affected by many factors, including interest rates, consumer confidence levels, tax rates, employment levels and general economic conditions. As a result, a continued recession in the general economy or other conditions affecting disposable consumer income and retail sales would likely reduce our sales. We cannot predict the timing or the severity of the cycles within our industry. In particular, it is difficult to predict how long and to what levels any industry upturn or downturn and/or general economic weakness will last or what impact terrorism, war, or other factors may have on our industry. The electronic components distribution industry historically been affected by general economic downturns. These economic downturns have often had an adverse economic effect upon manufacturers, end-users of electronic components and electronic components distributors. Our industry also directly depends on the continued growth of the electronic components industry and indirectly on end-user demand for our customers’ products. The timing of new product developments, the life cycle of existing electronic products and the level of acceptance and growth of new products can also affect demand for electronic components. Due to changing conditions, our customers have experienced and may in the future experience, periods of inventory corrections that could have a significant negative impact on our results. We have supported in the past and expect in the future to support new technologies and emerging markets. If these new technologies and emerging markets are not widely accepted, our operating results could suffer significantly. Our operating results have significantly fluctuated in the past, and will likely fluctuate in the future, because of these market changes and factors. 12 Our industry is susceptible to supply shortages and price volatility. Any delay or inability to obtain components or a significant increase in the price of components may have an adverse effect on our operating results. The electronics industry, in general, has been susceptible to supply shortages and price volatility. In part, these conditions are attributable to the price of lead and copper, the two principal raw materials used to manufacture electronic components, and the price of oil, which affects both manufacturing costs and shipping costs. Over the past few years, prices for lead and copper have increased significantly. In addition, the price of oil, a key factor in determining shipping rates, has been extremely volatile over the last couple of years. These price increases could lead to supply shortages as manufacturers hold up or delay production in the hope that prices will come down or because they do not have the capital to continue purchasing raw materials at the same level. These shortages could adversely impact our ability to satisfy customer demands, impairing not only our financial performance but jeopardizing our ongoing relationships with our customers. In addition, it is not always possible to pass along these price increases to our customers, which would have an unfavorable impact on our gross margins and overall profitability. On the other hand, because of price decreases, which are also possible when dealing with commodity-based products, we may experience periods when our investment in inventory exceeds the market price of such products. This could have a negative impact on our sales and gross profit. Our business model assumes that distributors will continue to play a significant role in the electronics industry, as traditional distributors, as logistics providers or as both. A reversal of the trend for distributors to play an increasing role in the electronic components industry could adversely affect our business. Traditionally, distributors have played an important role in the electronics industry serving as the bridge between the component manufacturers and OEMs, wholesalers and retailers. In recent years, there has been a growing trend for OEMs and contract electronics manufacturers to outsource their procurement, inventory and materials management processes to third parties, particularly electronic component distributors. We believe this trend has contributed and will continue to contribute to our growth. However, because of the Internet and other recent developments contributing to the “global economy,” OEMs and retailers have the opportunity to contract directly with the component manufacturers, bypassing the distributors. If direct contact becomes an industry trend, it could have a material and adverse impact on our net sales. Competition in our industry is intense, which creates significant pricing pressures on our products and services. If we cannot compete effectively, it would have an adverse impact on our gross margins and profitability and on the market price of our stock. We compete with numerous, well-established companies, many, if not most of which are larger and have greater capital and management resources. In addition, we are increasingly finding that manufacturers, particularly foreign manufacturers, are competing against us. In our industry, price is the primary competitive factor, as well as, inventory availability, scope of services, quality of products and services, delivery time and customer relationships. We expect competition to intensify in the future. To the extent our competitors have superior financial resources, they may be better able to withstand price competition and implement extensive promotional programs. They may also be able to offer a broader range of services. Our ability to remain competitive will largely depend on our ability to continue to source the products we sell at competitive prices, control costs and anticipate and respond to various trends affecting the industry. These factors include new product introductions and pricing strategies, changes in customer preferences and requirements, consumer trends, demographic trends and international, national, regional and local economic conditions. New competitors or competitors’ price reductions or increased spending on marketing and product development, as well as any increases in the price of raw materials that our suppliers pass on would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our competitive position, as larger competitors would be in a better position to bear these costs and price increases. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new companies. 13 Disruption in our logistics centers may prevent us from meeting customer demand and our sales and profitability may suffer as a result. We manage our product distribution in the continental United States through our operations in Carrollton, Texas and two regional logistics centers located in Atlanta, Georgia and Las Vegas, Nevada. A serious disruption, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados, floods, or fires, at any of our logistics centers could damage our inventory and could materially impair our ability to distribute products to customers in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost. We could incur significantly higher costs and experience longer lead times associated with distributing products to customers during the time that it takes us to reopen or replace a distribution center. As a result, any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, it could adversely impact our ability to compete effectively. We regard our trademarks, trade names, service marks, service names, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights to be important to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark law, statutory and common law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, and with our customers and vendors whenever possible, to protect our intellectual property rights. Not all of our customers and vendors agree to these provisions, and the scope and enforceability of these provisions is uncertain. In addition, even if our intellectual property rights are enforceable in the United States, they may not be enforceable in other countries. As a result, despite these precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. Moreover, we may have to resort to litigation, which is expensive and time-consuming and would divert management’s attention from our core business. We may be required to incur substantial expenses and divert management attention and resources in defending intellectual property litigation against us or prosecuting others for their unauthorized use of our intellectual property. We cannot be certain that products we purchase from our suppliers do not and will not infringe on issued patents or proprietary rights of others. Any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant litigation costs and diversion of resources, and could require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable to us. If forced to cease using such intellectual property, we may not be able to develop or obtain alternative technologies. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing, using, or selling certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, parties making such claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to make, use, or sell our products in the United States or abroad. A judgment like that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we are obligated under certain agreements to indemnify our customers or other parties if we infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. Any required indemnity payments under these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business. As part of our long-term growth strategy, we may undertake strategic acquisitions. If we are unable to address the risks associated with these acquisitions, it could adversely impact our business operations and financial performance. 14 We continue to look for other acquisition opportunities that we believe will expand or complement our existing business or is necessary or desirable to protect our market position. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, we may compete with other companies having similar growth and investment strategies. Competition for these acquisition targets could result in increased acquisition costs and a diminished pool of businesses, technologies, services or products available for acquisition. If we are unable to consummate acquisitions at all or at a reasonable cost or if we are unable to effectively integrate acquisitions with our existing operations, our ability to compete may be impaired. Assimilating acquired businesses involves a number of other risks, including, but not limited to the following: · disrupting our business; · incurring additional expense associated with a write-off of all or a portion of the related goodwill and other intangible assets due to changes in market conditions or because acquisitions are not providing the expected benefits; · incurring unanticipated costs or unknown liabilities; · managing more geographically-dispersed operations; · diverting management’s resources from other business concerns; · retaining the employees of the acquired businesses; · maintaining existing customer relationships of acquired companies; · assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; and · maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate acquisitions that we believe are necessary or beneficial to our business and/or operations at all or on terms that are reasonable or that we will be able to integrate the acquired business or assets in a timely, efficient or effective manner. Rapid growth in our business could strain our managerial, operational, financial, accounting and information systems, customer service staff and office resources. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business may be negatively impacted. In order to achieve our growth strategy, we will need to expand all aspects of our business, including our computer systems and related infrastructure, customer service capabilities and sales and marketing efforts. We cannot assure you that our infrastructure, technical staff and technical resources will adequately accommodate or facilitate our expanded operations. To be successful, we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial controls, billing systems, reporting systems and procedures, and we will need to continue to expand, train and manage our workforce. In addition, as we offer new products and services, we will need to increase the size and expand the training of our customer service staff to ensure that they can adequately respond to customer inquiries. If we fail to adequately train our customer service staff and provide staffing sufficient to support our new products and services, we may lose customers. Our success to date and our future success depend on our senior executives and other key personnel. If we lose the services of any of these individuals, our business will suffer. We depend substantially on the efforts and abilities of our senior executives and other key personnel. Our business and operations may be adversely impacted by the loss or interruption of the full-time service of one or more of these employees or if we cannot replace any of our senior executives or key employees quickly with someone of comparable skills. If we become subject to product returns or product liability claims resulting from defects in our products, we may face an increase in our costs, a loss of customer and damage to our reputation or a delay in the market acceptance of our products. 15 The products that we sell are complex and may contain undetected defects or experience unforeseen failures. We cannot assure you that the products we sell, despite any safety certification they may carry, are free of all defects. Even though we are not a manufacturer, as part of the supply chain, we may be named as a defendant in a lawsuit for property damage or personal injury resulting from defects in the goods we handle. If that happens, we may be forced to undertake a product recall program, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and could harm our reputation and that of our products. In addition, a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming, diverting management’s attention from sales and product development efforts and costly to defend. If successful, such claims could require us to make significant damage payments in excess of our insurance limits. We are subject to various governmental regulations that could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, and local regulatory requirements relating to employees, environmental, product disposal, and health and safety matters. We could become subject to liabilities because of a failure to comply with applicable laws and incur substantial costs to comply with existing, new, modified, or more stringent requirements. Demand for our products could also be affected by applicable state and local laws and regulations. Risks Related to Our Stock Our common stock is “thinly traded”. If an active market does not develop for our securities, you may not be able to sell our common stock when you want. Since our stock began trading in December 2006, daily trading volume has been erratic. An active trading market in our common stock may never develop. An illiquid market makes it more difficult for you to sell our stock should you desire or need to do so. Even more, the market price of our securities may be volatile, fluctuating significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · quarterly and seasonal variations in operating results; · changes in financial estimates and ratings by securities analysts; · announcements by us or our competitors of new product and service offerings, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic relationships; · publicity about our company, our services, our competitors or business in general; · additions or departures of key personnel; · fluctuations in the costs of materials and supplies; · any future sales of our common stock or other securities; and · stock market price and volume fluctuations of publicly-traded companies in general and in the electronic industry in particular. 16 Zunicom is our largest shareholder and has significant influence over us, which may result in conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts, and may adversely impact our value and the liquidity of our stock. Zunicom owns approximately 41% of our outstanding common stock. William Tan, our chairman, is also the chairman of Zunicom. Ian Edmonds, our president, chief executive officer, interim chief financial officer, a member of our board of directors (the “Board”) and the son-in-law of Mr. Tan, is also a member of the board of directors of Zunicom. As a result, Zunicom has significant influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. This concentration of influence could be disadvantageous to other stockholders with different interests, which could result in reducing our profitability. In addition, this concentration of share ownership, and the appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with a significant concentration of ownership among a limited number of shareholders. Future sales or the potential for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our stock to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We have 5,020,000 shares of common stock issued and outstanding and an additional 1,980,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our 2006 Stock Option Plan, of which 1,433,842 are issuable upon exercise of outstanding options having a weighted average exercise price of $3.47 However, since our IPO, shares of our common stock have been “thinly-traded” in the public market. Future sales, or even the possibility of future sale by us of additional equity securities, may cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future, which could depress the price of our stock. Our corporate charter authorizes us to issue shares of “blank-check” preferred stock. The Board has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred shares, as well as the authority to issue such shares, without further shareholder approval. As a result, the Board could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders preferred rights to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividends before dividends are declared to holders of our common stock, and the right to the redemption of such preferred shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of the common stock. To the extent that we do issue such additional shares of preferred stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock could be impaired thereby, including, without limitation, with respect to liquidation. Texas law and provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could deter or prevent takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay you a premium for your shares of our common stock. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and the corporate laws of the State of Texas include provisions designed to provide the Board with time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in our and shareholders’ best interests, but could be utilized by the Board to deter a transaction that would provide shareholders with a premium over the market price of our shares. These provisions include the following: (i) the availability of authorized but unissued shares of common stock for issuance from time to time at the discretion of the Board; (ii) the availability of authorized shares of preferred stock, the number of which to be issued from time to time and their terms and conditions being solely in the discretion of the Board; (iii) provisions in our Bylaws enabling the Board to increase the size of the Board and to fill the vacancies created by the increase; and (iv) provisions in our Bylaws establishing advance notice procedures with regard to business to be presented at shareholder meetings or to director nominations (other than those by or at the direction of the Board). The Texas Business Organization Code also contains provisions intended to protect shareholders and prohibit or discourage various types of hostile takeover activities. These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, including under circumstances where our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium over the market price of our shares. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of our current management and may limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. 17 We do not anticipate paying dividends in the near future. This could make our stock less attractive to potential investors. We anticipate that we will retain all future earnings and other cash resources for the future operation and development of our business, and we do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends in the future. Future payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of the Board after taking into account many factors, including our operating results, financial condition and capital requirements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 