ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business, including our financial statements and the notes to those statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, could negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition in the future. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward- looking statements contained in this Form 10-K as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere. Risks Relating to Our Business A significant portion of our annual revenue is derived from a single customer. If this customer were to terminate its relationship with us or even reduce its level of business with us our operating results would suffer. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, one customer, Brinks, accounted for 41%, 48% and 56% of our net sales, respectively. At December 31, 2007 our Brinks receivable was $3.8 million, representing approximately 30% of our total accounts receivable as of that date, none of which was outside our terms with the customer (generally 30 days). At any one time, we have carried as much as $10.0 million of inventory to fulfill our obligations to Brinks. If Brinks were to fail to purchase these items from us, we may not be able to find other buyers for these products. Our agreement with Brinks expires in November 2008 but Brinks has the right to terminate our agreement at any time by giving us 120 days prior written notice. If Brinks were to exercise this right or significantly reduce the level of business it does with us, our revenues and profitability would be adversely impacted. We cannot assure you that we will be able to extend our agreement with Brinks or, if we can, what the terms of that agreement will be. In addition, any adverse developments in Brinks’ business could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. The market price of our stock may be adversely affected because of this customer concentration. Our revolving credit agreement with Compass Bank contains restrictive covenants that could impede our growth and our ability to compete. Our working capital requirements are significant. To fund our operations we rely on cash flow from operations and a $30.0 million working capital revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2007, the outstanding balance on our credit line was $12.8 million and at December 31, 2006, it was $14.6 million. In addition, at those dates our total liabilities, including accounts payable, were $32.0 million and $33.0 million, respectively. The credit facility restricts us in many ways and these restrictions as well as the amount of the debt we carry at any one time may have an adverse impact on the price of our stock. First, the indebtedness under the credit facility is secured by all of our assets, including inventory and receivables. If we were to breach any of the terms of our agreement with the bank and the bank were to exercise its right to declare a default and a court of competent jurisdiction were to determine that we are in default, the bank could foreclose on its security interests. Any foreclosure action could cause us to seek protection under the federal bankruptcy code which, in turn, would have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate at a level required to maintain or achieve profitability, which, in turn, could adversely impact the price of our stock and your investment. Second, the credit agreement contains numerous negative covenants, such as restricting our ability to undertake any other financing transaction without the bank’s consent or prohibiting us from buying another business or assets having a 10 purchase price in excess of $7.5 million without the bank’s consent. The consequences of these covenants may include one or more of the following: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring that a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be applied to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness and lease payments under our leases, thereby reducing cash flows available for other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less leverage or better access to capital resources. Third, the agreement requires us to maintain various financial ratios and satisfy various other financial and operating requirements and conditions, including a borrowing base computation. These ratios and the borrowing base computation limit our ability to draw on the facility. Also, failure to satisfy these ratios, requirements and conditions could result in a breach of the loan covenants, giving the bank the right to declare a default and commence proceedings to collect the debt. Our ability to satisfy these ratios, requirements and conditions may be affected by events that are beyond our control. These ratios, requirements and conditions together with the negative covenants may restrict or limit our operating flexibility, limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. Fourth, our ratio of total liabilities to total market capitalization may exceed that of other companies in our industry. As a result, an investment in us could be perceived by the market as more risky than an investment in our competitors, which may have an adverse impact on the price of our stock. In addition, the total amount of our debt makes us particularly susceptible to changes in general economic conditions or even adverse changes in the financial condition in one or more of our significant customers. To meet our operating and debt service requirements, which are significant, we must take steps to assure that our existing customer base is comprised of businesses having financial resources sufficient to assure timely payment for our product shipments and that we identify creditworthy potential customers. Finally, a portion of the borrowings under our credit facility are and will continue to be at a variable rate based upon prevailing interest rates, which exposes us to risk of increased interest rates. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and do not have written agreements with any of them. Any disruption in our ability to purchase products from them or any drastic changes in the prices we pay for our products could adversely affect our gross margins and profitability, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. All of our products are manufactured and assembled by third-party manufacturers, many of which are located in the Pacific Rim region, principally China. We depend on these third-party manufacturers to supply us with quality products in a timely and efficient manner. If they fail to do so, we may have to find other sources to meet our inventory needs. This could result in increased costs which we may not be able to pass on to our customers, lost sales opportunities, and/or a decrease in customer satisfaction, which could damage our reputation. Our largest domestic supplier is Honeywell Security and Custom Electronics (“HS&CE”), formerly known as Ademco, a division of Honeywell International, Inc., and the source of much of our Brinks inventory. We purchased 34%, 42% and 44% in the years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively from HS&CE. We do not have a written agreement with HS&CE, although Brinks does. Our second largest supplier, which is based in the People’s Republic of China, accounted for 42%, 28% and 22% of our inventory purchases in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which includes most of our battery purchases. We continue to rely on that supplier as our principal source for batteries because of price, the quality of its products, its ability to satisfy our need for a broad range of battery chemistries and its timely deliveries. We believe that we get competitive pricing from them because of the volume of our purchases. If our relationship with that supplier was to terminate for any reason, or the factory could no longer provide us with favorable pricing, we could lose a significant competitive advantage, we may have to source our purchases from multiple factories. This could have an adverse impact on the price we pay for batteries and other products that we carry and may also adversely impact other factors such as the quality of our products and the timeliness of our shipments. This could then adversely impact our ability to meet customer expectations and damage our reputation. Any disruption in our ability to move our goods from the manufacturers to our logistics centers or from our logistics centers to our customers could result in lost business. Other than some of the items we purchase to fulfill our obligations to Brinks, substantially all of our products are manufactured outside the United States, and most of our products are then shipped from one of our logistics centers to our customers. As a result, we depend on third parties, principally shippers and shipping brokers, freight forwarders, and customs brokers, to facilitate our transportation needs. Transportation delays or interruptions, such as those caused by labor strikes, natural disasters, terrorism, inspection delays, import restrictions, bad weather, or acts of war, could impede our ability to timely deliver our products to our customers. These delays could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Also, these interruptions could increase our costs, if, for example, we were forced to ship our products via air rather than ocean freight or if insurance costs were to increase significantly as a result of terrorism or acts of war. We depend on foreign manufacturers, which exposes us to various financial, political and economic risks. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2006, we purchased approximately 50%, 39% and 30%, respectively, of our products through foreign sources, predominantly in China and other Pacific Rim countries. In some instances, particularly when we are dealing with a new supplier, we are required to finance a portion of the tooling cost and raw material purchases that the factory will incur to meet our requirements. Sometimes our customer will offset our exposure by paying us an upfront fee. However, this is not always the case and we are often at risk if the factory cannot deliver the goods to us. As a result, our ability to sell certain products at competitive prices could be adversely affected by any of the following: • increases in tariffs or duties; 11 • changes in trade treaties; • strikes or delays in air or sea transportation; • future United States legislation with respect to pricing and/or import quotas on products imported from foreign countries; • changes in local laws and regulations; • wars, hostilities or other military activity; • expropriation of private enterprises; • currency limitations including restrictions on repatriation or transfer of funds; and • turbulence in offshore economies or financial markets. Our ability to be competitive with respect to sales of imported components could also be affected by other governmental actions and policy changes, including anti-dumping and international antitrust legislation. Currency fluctuations could have a negative impact on financial performance, which may result in the loss of all or a portion of your investment in us. Although all of our transactions are recorded in U.S. dollars, adverse currency fluctuations could make components manufactured abroad more expensive, cause shortages due to unfavorable export conditions or cause our foreign suppliers to limit exports to the United States. Significant changes in the value of the Chinese renminbi in relation to the U.S. dollar began occurring during 2007 and if changes continue unfavorably, it could increase the cost of goods and raw materials for Chinese manufacturers, which they would then look to incorporate into the price of goods that we purchase from them. As a result, we cannot assure you that currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results in the future. Our industry is cyclical, which causes our operating results to fluctuate significantly. Many of the products that rely on portable power supply units and related products and accessories that we sell constitute discretionary purchases. Consumer spending is unpredictable and is affected by many factors, including interest rates, consumer confidence levels, tax rates, employment levels and prospects, and general economic conditions. As a result, a recession in the general economy or other conditions affecting disposable consumer income and retail sales would likely reduce our sales. We cannot predict the timing or the severity of the cycles within our industry. In particular, it is difficult to predict how long and to what levels any industry upturn or downturn and/or general economic weakness will last or will be exacerbated by terrorism or war or other factors on our industry. The electronic components distribution industry has historically been affected by general economic downturns. These economic downturns have often had an adverse economic effect upon manufacturers, end-users of electronic components and electronic components distributors. Our industry also directly depends on the continued growth of the electronic components industry and indirectly on end-user demand for our customers’ products. The timing of new product developments, the life-cycle of existing electronic products, and the level of acceptance and growth of new products can also affect demand for electronic components. Due to changing conditions, our customers have experienced, and may in the future experience, periods of inventory corrections which could have a significant negative impact on our results. We have supported in the past and expect in the future to support new technologies and emerging markets. If these new technologies and emerging markets fail to be accepted or grow, our operating results could suffer significantly. Our operating results have significantly fluctuated in the past, and will likely fluctuate in the future, because of these market changes and factors. Our industry is susceptible to supply shortages and price volatility. Any delay or inability to obtain components or a significant increase in the price of components may have an adverse effect on our operating results. The electronics industry, in general, has been susceptible to supply shortages and price volatility. In part, these conditions are attributable to the price of lead and copper, the two principal raw materials used to manufacture electronic components, and the price of oil, which impacts both manufacturing costs and shipping costs. Over the past few years, prices for lead and copper have increased significantly. In the last 10 years, the price of oil has increased over 500%, from approximately $20 per barrel to over $100 per barrel. These price increases could lead to supply shortages as manufacturers hold up or delay production in the hope that prices will come down or because they do not have the capital to continue purchasing raw materials at the same level. These shortages could adversely impact our ability to satisfy customer demands, impairing not only our financial performance but jeopardizing our ongoing relationships with our customers. In addition, it is not always possible to pass along these price increases to our customers, which would have an unfavorable impact on our gross margins and overall profitability. On the other hand, as a result of price decreases, which are also possible when dealing with commodity-based products, we may experience periods when our investment in inventory exceeds the market price of such products. This could have a negative impact on our sales and gross profit. Our business model assumes that distributors will continue to play a significant role in the electronics industry, as a traditional distributor, as a logistics provider or as both. A reversal of the trend for distributors to play an increasing role in the electronic components industry could adversely affect our business. Traditionally, distributors have played an important role in the electronics industry serving as the bridge between the component manufacturers and OEMs, wholesalers and retailers. In recent years, there has been a growing trend for OEMs and contract electronics manufacturers to outsource their procurement, inventory and materials management processes to third parties, particularly electronic component distributors. We believe this trend has contributed and will continue to contribute to our growth. However, as a result of the Internet and other recent developments contributing to the “global economy,” OEMs and retailers have the opportunity to contract directly with the component manufacturers, bypassing the distributors. If that direct contact becomes a trend, our sales would be materially adversely affected. Competition in our industry is intense, which creates significant pricing pressures on our products and services. If we cannot compete effectively, our gross margins and profitability would be adversely impacted, which could have an adverse impact on the market price of our stock. 12 We compete with numerous, well-established companies, many, if not most of which are larger and have greater capital and management resources than we do. Our principal competitors include other logistics companies, shippers, such as UPS Supply Chain, FedEx and DHL who also provide supply chain management services, and battery distributors, such as Interstate Batteries, MK Battery and Dantona, as well as companies like us that are both logistics providers and distributors. In addition, we are increasingly finding that manufacturers, particularly foreign manufacturers, are competing against us. We compete primarily on the basis of price, inventory availability, scope of services, quality of products and services, delivery time and customer relationships. We expect competition to intensify in the future. To the extent our competitors have superior financial resources, they may be better able to withstand price competition and can even implement extensive promotional programs. They may also be able to offer a broader range of services. Our ability to remain competitive will largely depend on our ability to continue to source the products we sell at competitive prices, control costs and anticipate and respond to various trends affecting the industry. These factors include new product introductions and pricing strategies, changes in customer preferences and requirements, consumer trends, demographic trends and international, national, regional and local economic conditions. New competitors or competitors’ price reductions or increased spending on marketing and product development, as well as any increases in the price of raw materials that our suppliers pass on would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our competitive position, as larger competitors will be in a better position to bear these costs and price increases. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against existing companies or ones that will enter our market in the future. Disruption in our logistics centers may prevent us from meeting customer demand and our sales and profitability may suffer as a result. We manage our product distribution in the continental United States through our operations in Carrollton, Texas, and three regional logistics centers located in Oklahoma City, Columbus, Georgia and Las Vegas, Nevada. A serious disruption, such as earthquakes, tornados, floods, or fires, at any of our logistics centers could damage our inventory and could materially impair our ability to distribute our products to customers in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost. We could incur significantly higher costs and experience longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace a distribution center. As a result, any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. As part of our long-term growth strategy, we may undertake strategic acquisitions. If we are unable to address the risks associated with these acquisitions our business operations may be disrupted and our financial performance may be impaired. Our long-term growth strategy includes building or acquiring a manufacturing facility. We also will consider acquiring other logistics companies or distributors if we believe such an acquisition would expand or complement our existing business. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, we may compete with other companies having similar growth and investment strategies. Competition for these acquisition targets could also result in increased acquisition costs and a diminished pool of businesses, technologies, services or products available for acquisition. Our long-term growth strategy could be impeded if we fail to identify and acquire promising candidates on terms acceptable to us. Assimilating acquired businesses involves a number of other risks, including, but not limited to: • disrupting our business; • incurring additional expense associated with a write-off of all or a portion of the related goodwill and other intangible assets due to changes in market conditions or the economy in the markets in which we compete or because acquisitions are not providing the expected benefits; • incurring unanticipated costs or unknown liabilities; • managing more geographically-dispersed operations; • diverting management’s resources from other business concerns; • retaining the employees of the acquired businesses; • maintaining existing customer relationships of acquired companies; • assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; and • maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an overall acquisition or any individual acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully address any of these risks, our business could be harmed. Rapid growth in our business could strain our managerial, operational, financial, accounting and information systems, customer service staff and office resources. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business may be negatively impacted. In order to achieve our growth strategy, we will need to expand all aspects of our business, including our computer systems and related infrastructure, customer service capabilities and sales and marketing efforts. We cannot assure you that our infrastructure, technical staff and technical resources will adequately accommodate or facilitate our expanded operations. To be successful, we will need to continually improve our financial and managerial controls, billing systems, reporting systems and procedures, and we will also need to continue to expand, train and manage our workforce. In addition, as we offer new products and services, we will need to increase the size and expand the training of our customer service staff to ensure that they can adequately respond to customer inquiries. If we fail to adequately train our customer service staff and provide staffing sufficient to support our new products and services, we may lose customers. 13 Our success to date and our future success depend on our senior executives and other key personnel. If we lose the services of any of these individuals, our business will suffer. We depend substantially on the efforts and abilities of our senior executives. The loss or interruption of the full-time service of one or more of these executives could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Even though we have employment agreements with these executives we cannot assure you that they will continue to work for us. If we were to lose the services of any of our senior executives and we were not able to replace them quickly and with people of comparable skills, our operations would be adversely impacted. If we become subject to product returns or product liability claims resulting from defects in our products, we may face an increase in our costs, a loss of customers, damage to our reputation, or a delay in the market acceptance of our products. The products that we sell are complex and may contain undetected defects or experience unforeseen failures. We cannot assure you that the products we sell, despite any safety certification they may carry, are free of all defects. Even though we are not a manufacturer, as part of the supply chain we may be named as a defendant in a lawsuit for property damage or personal injury resulting from defects in the goods we handle. If that happens, we may be forced to undertake a product recall program, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and could harm our reputation and that of our products. In addition, a product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming, diverting management’s attention from sales and product development efforts, and costly to defend. If successful, such claims could require us to make significant damage payments in excess of our insurance limits. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our ability to compete effectively in our markets could be harmed. We regard our trademarks, trade names, service marks, service names, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights important to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark law, statutory and common law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, and with our customers and vendors whenever possible, in order to protect our intellectual property rights. Not all of our customers and vendors agree to these provisions, and the scope and enforceability of these provisions is uncertain. In addition, even if our intellectual property rights are enforceable in the United States, they may not be enforceable in other countries where we do business. As a result, despite these precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. Moreover, we may have to resort to litigation, which is expensive and time-consuming and will divert management’s attention from our core business. We may be required to incur substantial expenses and divert management attention and resources in defending intellectual property litigation against us or prosecuting others for their unauthorized use of our intellectual property. We cannot be certain that the products we purchase from our suppliers do not and will not infringe on issued patents or other proprietary rights of others. In fact, we are a named defendant in an action brought by Energizer Holdings, Inc. and Eveready Battery Company, Inc. against us and over 20 other respondents relating to the manufacture, importation and sale of certain alkaline batteries alleged to infringe one of their patents. Any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant litigation costs and diversion of resources, including the attention of management, and could require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable to us. If forced to cease using such intellectual property, we may not be able to develop or obtain alternative technologies. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing, using, or selling certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, parties making such claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to make, use, or sell our products in the United States or abroad. A judgment like that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we are obligated under certain agreements to indemnify our customers or other parties if we infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. Any required indemnity payments under these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business. We owe a significant amount of money to Zunicom, our former corporate parent and largest shareholder. Our obligation to repay indebtedness could strain our financial resources. As of December 31, 2007 we owed two notes to Zunicom, our former corporate parent and largest shareholder. One note has an original principal amount of $3 million. The other note has an original principal amount of $2.85 million. Both notes have a maturity date of June 20, 2012. The notes bear interest at 6% with interest only payable during the first 18 months of the term. Thereafter, interest and principal will be payable in 16 equal quarterly installments beginning September 20, 2008. The combined payments under both notes may adversely impact our working capital position. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company, which may divert management attention from our business and impair our financial results. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Zunicom. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the American Stock Exchange, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. These new rules and regulations have also increased the cost of directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce accurate financial statements and on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (S-Ox 404), we are required to furnish a report on our internal controls over financial reporting. The internal control report must contain (a) a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, (b) a statement identifying 14 the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, (c) management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our most recent fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective and (d) a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting. Management’s assessment report was completed for the period covered by this report and current rules require the independent registered public accounting firm’s attestation report must be completed before we file our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2009. To comply with S-Ox 404 within the prescribed period, we are engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we continue to dedicate internal resources, engage outside consultants and implement a detailed work plan to (a) assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, (b) take steps to improve control processes where appropriate, (c) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and (d) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite our efforts, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm’s, conclusions with respect to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under S-Ox 404. There is a risk that neither we nor our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to conclude within the prescribed timeframe that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective as required by S-Ox 404. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We are subject to various governmental regulations that could adversely affect our business. Like many businesses, our operations are subject to certain federal, state, and local regulatory requirements relating to environmental, product disposal, and health and safety matters. We could become subject to liabilities as a result of a failure to comply with applicable laws and incur substantial costs to comply with existing, new, modified, or more stringent requirements. The use of our products is also governed by a variety of state and local ordinances that could affect the demand for our products. Risks Related to Our Stock Currently our common stock is “ thinly traded”. If an active market does not develop for our securities, you may not be able to sell our common stock when you want. Since our stock began trading on the American Stock Exchange, daily trading volume has been erratic. An active trading market in our common stock may never develop. An illiquid market makes it more difficult for you to sell our stock should you desire or need to do so. Even more, the market price of our securities may be volatile, fluctuating significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • quarterly and seasonal variations in operating results; • changes in financial estimates and ratings by securities analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of new product and service offerings, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic relationships; • publicity about our company, our services, our competitors or business in general; • additions or departures of key personnel; • fluctuations in the costs of materials and supplies; • any future sales of our common stock or other securities; and • stock market price and volume fluctuations of publicly-traded companies in general and in the electronic industry in particular. We may not be able to maintain our listing on the American Stock Exchange, which may adversely affect the ability of purchasers to resell their common stock in the secondary market. Although our common stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange, we cannot assure you that we will continue to meet the criteria for continued listing on the American Stock Exchange in the future. If we are unable to meet the continued listing criteria of the American Stock Exchange and became delisted, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. In such case, an investor would likely find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock or to obtain accurate market quotations. If our common stock is delisted from the American Stock Exchange, it will become subject to the SEC’s “penny stock rules,” which imposes sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such common stock to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors.” Application of this rule could adversely affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may adversely affect the ability of purchasers to resell their common stock in the secondary market. Zunicom is our largest shareholder and has significant influence over us, which may result in conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts, and may adversely impact our value and the liquidity of our stock. Zunicom directly owns 40.0% of our outstanding common. William Tan, our chairman, is also the chairman of Zunicom and Ian Edmonds, our chief operating officer and a member of our board of directors (the “Board”) and the son-in-law of Mr. Tan, is also a member of the board of directors of Zunicom. As a result, Zunicom has significant influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. This concentration of influence could be disadvantageous to other stockholders with different interests, which could result in reducing our profitability. In addition, this concentration of share ownership, and the appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock, because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with a significant concentration of ownership among a limited number of shareholders. We do not have a formal procedure for resolving any conflicts of interest. 15 Future sales or the potential for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our stock to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We have 5,000,000 shares of common stock issued and outstanding and an additional 1,800,000 shares of common stock reserved for future issuance as follows: • 1,500,000 shares reserved for issuance under our 2006 Stock Option Plan; and • 300,000 shares underlying warrants sold during our IPO. All our outstanding common shares may be freely traded. However, since our IPO, the shares have been “thinly traded” in the public market. Future sales, or even the possibility of future sales, may depress our common stock price. Management has broad discretion over the use of proceeds from our IPO and may not apply them effectively or in the manner currently contemplated. We have broad discretion in determining the specific uses of the proceeds from our IPO. And when those proceeds will be used. The timing and use of our IPO proceeds will depend on a number of factors including differences between our expected and actual revenues from operations or availability of commercial financing opportunities, unexpected expenses or expense overruns or unanticipated opportunities requiring cash expenditures. As a result, shareholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial or other information on which we base our decisions on how to use the proceeds. Shareholders will rely on the judgment of our management with only limited information about their specific intentions regarding the use of proceeds. We may spend most of the proceeds of our IPO in ways with which shareholders may not agree. If we fail to apply these funds effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future, which could depress the price of our stock. Our corporate charter authorizes us to issue shares of “blank check” preferred stock. The Board has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred shares, as well as the authority to issue such shares, without further shareholder approval. As a result, the Board could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders preferred rights to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividends before dividends are declared to holders of our common stock, and the right to the redemption of such preferred shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of the common stock. To the extent that we do issue such additional shares of preferred stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock could be impaired thereby, including, without limitation, with respect to liquidation. Texas law and provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could deter or prevent takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay you a premium for your shares of our common stock. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and the corporate laws of the State of Texas include provisions designed to provide the Board with time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in our and shareholders’ best interests, but could be utilized by the Board to deter a transaction that would provide shareholders with a premium over the market price of our shares. These provisions include the availability of authorized but unissued shares of common stock for issuance from time to time at the discretion of the Board; the availability of authorized shares of preferred stock, the number of which to be issued from time to time and their terms and conditions being solely in the discretion of the Board; bylaws provisions enabling the Board to increase the size of the board and to fill the vacancies created by the increase; and bylaw provisions establishing advance notice procedures with regard to business to be presented at shareholder meetings or to director nominations (other than those by or at the direction of the Board). The Texas Business Corporation Act also contains provisions intended to protect shareholders and prohibit or discourage various types of hostile takeover activities. These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, including under circumstances where our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium over the market price of our shares. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of our current management and may limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. This could make our stock less attractive to potential investors. We anticipate that we will retain all future earnings and other cash resources for the future operation and development of our business, and we do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Future payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account many factors, including our operating results, financial condition and capital requirements. 