D. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY We may fail to effectively develop and commercialize new products, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The medical device market is developing rapidly and related technology trends are constantly evolving. This results in frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles and significant price competition. Consequently, our success depends on our ability to anticipate technology development trends and identify, develop and commercialize in a timely and cost-effective manner new and advanced products that our customers demand. New products contribute significantly to our net revenues. Products introduced since 2005 accounted for more than 58.4% of our net revenues in 2007. We expect the medical device market to continue to evolve toward newer and more advanced products, many of which we do not currently produce. For example, the market for five-part hematology analyzers has been growing faster than the market for three-part hematology analyzers for several years, but we did not offer a five-part hematology analyzer until September 2006. Moreover, it may take an extended period of time for our new products to gain market acceptance, if at all. Furthermore, as the life cycle for a product matures, the average selling price generally decreases. Although we have previously offset the effect of declining average sales prices through increased sales volumes and reductions in manufacturing costs, we may be unable to continue to do so. Lastly, during a product’s life cycle, problems may arise regarding regulatory, intellectual property, product liability or other issues which may affect its continued commercial viability. Whether we are successful in developing and commercializing new products is determined by our ability to: • accurately assess technology trends and customer needs and meet market demands; 6 Table of Contents • optimize our manufacturing and procurement processes to predict and control costs; • manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner; • increase customer awareness and acceptance of our products; • minimize the time and costs required to obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals; • anticipate and compete effectively with other medical device developers, manufacturers and marketers; • price our products competitively; and • effectively integrate customer feedback into our research and development planning. We depend on distributors for a significant portion of our revenues and will rely on adding distributors both in China and internationally for a significant portion of our revenue growth. Failure to maintain relationships with our distributors or to otherwise expand our distribution network would materially and adversely affect our business. We depend on distributors for a significant portion of our revenues and will rely on adding distributors both in China and internationally for a significant portion of our revenue growth. We typically do not have long-term distribution agreements. As our existing distribution agreements expire, we may be unable to renew with our desired distributors on favorable terms or at all. In addition, we seek to limit our dependence on any single distributor by limiting and periodically redefining the scope of each distributor’s territory and the range of our products that it sells, which may make us less attractive to some distributors. Furthermore, competition for distributors is intense. We compete for distributors domestically and internationally with other leading medical equipment and device companies that may have higher visibility, greater name recognition and financial resources, and a broader product selection than we do. Our competitors also often enter into long-term distribution agreements that effectively prevent their distributors from selling our products. Consequently, maintaining relationships with existing distributors and replacing distributors may be difficult and time consuming. Any disruption of our distribution network, including our failure to renew our existing distribution agreements with our desired distributors, could negatively affect our ability to effectively sell our products and would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations We may be unable to effectively structure and manage our distribution network, and our business, prospects and brand may be materially and adversely affected by actions taken by our distributors. We have limited ability to manage the activities of our distributors, who are independent from us. Our distributors could take one or more of the following actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and brand: • sell products that compete with our products that they have contracted to sell for us; • sell our products outside their designated territory, possibly in violation of the exclusive distribution rights of other distributors; • fail to adequately promote our products; • fail to provide proper training, repair and service to our end-users; or • violate the anti-corruption laws of China, the United States or other countries. Furthermore, although we attempt to structure our distribution network so that each of our products is sold with similar effort, our distributors may focus selling efforts only on those products that provide them with the largest margins at the expense of products that offer them smaller margins. Failure to adequately manage our distribution network, or non-compliance by distributors with our distribution agreements could harm our corporate image among end users of our products and disrupt our sales, resulting in a failure to meet our sales goals. Furthermore, we could be liable for actions taken by our distributors, including any violations of applicable law in connection with the marketing or sale of our 7 Table of Contents products, including China’s anti-corruption laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our distributors even though almost all of our distributors are foreign companies that are not subject to the FCPA. The PRC government has increased its anti-bribery efforts in the healthcare sector to reduce improper payments received by hospital administrators and doctors in connection with the purchase of pharmaceutical products and medical devices. Our distributors may violate these laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices with respect to their sales or marketing of our products. If our distributors violate these laws, we could be required to pay damages or fines, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our brand and reputation, our sales activities or the price of our ADSs could be adversely affected if our company becomes the target of any negative publicity as a result of actions taken by our distributors. We may undertake acquisitions, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, and may end up being unsuccessful. We completed the acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business in May 2008, and our growth strategy may involve additional acquisitions of new technologies, businesses, products or services or the creation of strategic alliances in areas in which we do not currently operate. The acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business requires, and future acquisitions could require, that our management develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the integration of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business could have an adverse effect on the ability to effectively manage our business. Realizing the benefits of our acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business will depend in substantial part on the successful integration of technologies, operations and personnel. Currently each of Mindray and the patient monitoring device businesses we acquired from Datascope has its own operations, corporate culture, employees, and systems. Since completing the acquisition, we have begun to operate as a combined organization and to utilize common business, information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resource practices, including benefits, training and professional development programs. We face significant challenges integrating the technologies, operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. Some of the challenges and difficulties involved in this integration include: • integrating operations, services and personnel; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies; • our inability to generate sufficient revenue and net income to offset the costs of acquisitions; • potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees or customers, any of which could significantly disrupt our ability to manage our business and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; • coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively communicate our capabilities to our customers; • integrating and managing our distribution network and Datascope’s patient monitoring device direct sales force; • retaining senior management and key sales and marketing and research and development personnel and attracting and retaining other skilled research staff and mid-level personnel; • incompatibility of corporate cultures; • increased exposure to legal liabilities due to the acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business, which has significant operations under United States jurisdiction; • preserving important customer and supplier relationships of both companies and resolving potential conflicts that may arise; 8 Table of Contents • demonstrating to customers that the acquisition will not result in adverse changes in client service standards or business focus and assisting customers conduct business successfully with the combined company; • consolidating and rationalizing corporate, information technology and administrative infrastructures; • integrating and documenting processes and controls in conformance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and • operating at multiple sites in China, the United States, Europe, and the rest of the world. We may experience similar difficulties for any future acquisitions. Completed acquisitions may also expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, our inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs, expenses related to the acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees or customers as a result of our integration of new businesses, any of which could significantly disrupt our ability to manage our business. Additionally, although we conducted customary due diligence with respect to our acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business, we may not have identified and may not be aware of all of the risks associated with the acquisition. These risks and risks associated with our integration of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operation. While we may be entitled to seek contract damages in certain limited circumstances, successfully asserting or enforcing such damage claims could be costly and time consuming or may not be successful at all. International expansion may be costly, time consuming and difficult. If we do not successfully expand internationally, our profitability and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Our success significantly depends upon our ability to expand in our existing international markets and enter into new international markets. In expanding our business internationally, we have entered and intend to continue to enter markets in which we have limited or no experience and in which our brand may be less recognized. To further promote our brand and generate demand for our products so as to attract distributors in international markets, we expect to spend more on marketing and promotion than we do in our existing markets. We may be unable to attract a sufficient number of distributors, and our selected distributors may not be suitable for selling our products. Furthermore, in new markets we may fail to anticipate competitive conditions that are different from those in our existing markets. These competitive conditions may make it difficult or impossible for us to effectively operate in these markets. If our expansion efforts in existing and new markets are unsuccessful, our profitability and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to other risks associated with international operations, including: • political instability; • economic instability and recessions; • changes in tariffs; • difficulties of administering foreign operations generally; • limited protection for intellectual property rights; • obligations to comply with a wide variety of foreign laws and other regulatory requirements; • increased risk of exposure to terrorist activities; • financial condition, expertise and performance of our international distributors; • export license requirements; • unauthorized re-export of our products; 9 Table of Contents • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • inability to effectively enforce contractual or legal rights. If we fail to accurately project demand for our products, we may encounter problems of inadequate supply or oversupply, especially with respect to our international markets, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as damage our reputation and brand. Our distributors typically order our products on a purchase order basis. We project demand for our products based on rolling projections from our distributors, our understanding of anticipated hospital procurement spending, and distributor inventory levels. Lack of significant order backlog and the varying sales and purchasing cycles of our distributors and other customers, however, make it difficult for us to forecast future demand accurately. Our projections of market demand for our products in international markets are less reliable than our domestic projections because we have less information available on which to base our projections. Specifically, we do not have consistently reliable information regarding international distributor inventory levels, and we often lack extensive knowledge of the local market conditions or about the purchasing patterns, preferences, or cycles of international distributors. Furthermore, because shipping finished products to international distributors typically takes more time than shipping to domestic distributors, inaccurate projections of international demand could result more quickly in unmet demand. If we overestimate demand, we may purchase more raw materials or components than required. If we underestimate demand, our third party suppliers may have inadequate raw material or product component inventories, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay shipments, and could result in lost sales. In particular, we are seeking to reduce our procurement and inventory costs by matching our inventories closely with our projected manufacturing needs and by, from time to time, deferring our purchase of raw materials and components in anticipation of supplier price reductions. As we seek to balance reduced inventory costs and production flexibility, we may fail to accurately forecast demand and coordinate our procurement and production to meet demand on a timely basis. For example, we did not foresee a surge in sales orders for our newly introduced color ultrasound products during the first quarter in 2007. Our underestimation of demand, coupled with our decision to defer our purchase of new raw materials and components in anticipation of a reduction in pricing for certain raw materials and components at the beginning of a new calendar year, resulted in up to three-week delays in our product deliveries internationally. Our inability to accurately predict our demand and to timely meet our demand could materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations as well as damage our reputation and corporate brand. We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our success significantly depends upon the continued service of our key executives and other key employees. In particular, we are highly dependent on our co-chief executive officers, Mr. Xu Hang and Mr. Li Xiting, and our executive vice president of strategic development, Mr. Cheng Minghe, to manage our business and operations, and on our key research and development personnel for the development of new products. We have entered into employment agreements with each of our key executives and several other key employees. However, if we lose the services of any senior management or key research and development personnel, we may not be able to locate suitable or qualified replacements, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. Furthermore, as we expect to continue to expand our operations and develop new products, we will need to continue attracting and retaining experienced management, key research and development personnel, and salespeople. Competition for personnel in the medical technology field is intense, and the availability of suitable and qualified candidates in China, particularly Shenzhen, is limited. We compete to attract and retain qualified research and development personnel with other medical device companies, universities and research institutions. In addition, following our acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business, we also compete to attract and retain qualified research and development personnel in the United States where the 10 Table of Contents research and development operations we acquired from Datascope are located. Competition for these individuals, both in China and the United States, could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to attract or retain the personnel required to achieve our business objectives and failure to do so could severely disrupt our business and growth. Our business is subject to intense competition, which may reduce demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The medical device market is highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify. We face direct competition both domestically and internationally across all product lines and price points. Our competitors also vary significantly according to business segments. For domestic sales, our competitors include publicly traded and privately held multinational companies, as well as domestic Chinese companies. For international sales, our competitors are primarily publicly traded and privately held multinational companies. We also face competition in international sales from companies that have local operations in the markets in which we sell our products. Some of our larger competitors may have: • greater financial and other resources; • larger variety of products; • more products that have received regulatory approvals; • greater pricing flexibility; • more extensive research and development and technical capabilities; • patent portfolios that may present an obstacle to our conduct of business; • greater knowledge of local market conditions where we seek to increase our international sales; • stronger brand recognition; and • larger sales and distribution networks. As a result, we may be unable to offer products similar to, or more desirable than, those offered by our competitors, market our products as effectively as our competitors or otherwise respond successfully to competitive pressures. In addition, our competitors may be able to offer discounts on competing products as part of a “bundle” of non-competing products, systems and services that they sell to our customers, and we may not be able to profitably match those discounts. Furthermore, our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently offer or that render our products obsolete or uncompetitive. In addition, the timing of the introduction of competing products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. Our failure to compete successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects. Moreover, some of our internationally-based competitors have established or are in the process of establishing production and research and development facilities in China, while others have entered into cooperative business arrangements with Chinese manufacturers. If we are unable to develop competitive products, obtain regulatory approval or clearance and supply sufficient quantities to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors, market acceptance of our products may be limited, which could result in decreased sales. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our manufacturing cost advantage. In addition, we believe that corrupt practices in the medical device industry in China still occur. To increase sales, certain manufacturers or distributors of medical devices may pay kickbacks or provide other benefits to hospital personnel who make procurement decisions. Our company policy prohibits these practices by our direct sales personnel and our distribution agreements require our distributors to comply with applicable law. As a result, as competition intensifies in the medical device industry in China, we may lose sales, customers or contracts to competitors. 11 Table of Contents We currently rely on two manufacturing, assembly and storage facilities for our products and are developing two additional facilities. Any disruption to our current manufacturing facilities or in the development of these new facilities could reduce or restrict our sales and harm our reputation. We manufacture, assemble and store almost all of our products, as well as conduct some of our research and development activities at our two facilities located in Shenzhen, China. We conduct some of our primary research and development activities at our headquarters. We do not maintain other back-up facilities, so we depend on these facilities for the continued operation of our business. A natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruptions, water shortage, storms, fires, earthquakes, terrorist attacks and wars, could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business, as well as delay our research and development activities. Our facilities and certain equipment located in these facilities would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Catastrophic events may also destroy any inventory located in our facilities. The occurrence of such an event could materially and adversely affect our business. We are developing a new research and development center adjacent to our headquarters in Shenzhen, and, pursuant to an agreement with the Government of the Nanjing Jiangning Development Zone, we intend to establish a new research and development and manufacturing facility in Nanjing. These facilities require significant build-out before they will be operational. We may experience difficulties that disrupt our manufacturing activities, management and administration, or research and development as we migrate or expand to these facilities. Moreover, we may not realize their anticipated benefits. Any of these factors could reduce or restrict our sales and harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. With our acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business, we added two facilities located in New Jersey and in Sweden. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of required materials and components that meet our production standards at acceptable costs or at all, our ability to accept and fulfill product orders with the required quality and at the required time could be restricted, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase raw materials and components from third party suppliers and manufacture and assemble our products at our facility. Our purchases are generally made on a purchase order basis and we do not have long-term supply contracts. As a result, our suppliers may cease to provide components to us with little or no advance notice. In addition, to optimize our cost structure, we currently rely on single source suppliers to provide some of our raw materials and components for products in all three of our business segments. If the supply of certain materials or components were interrupted, our own manufacturing and assembly processes would be delayed. We also may be unable to secure alternative supply sources in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of required materials and components that meet our production standards at acceptable costs or at all, our ability to accept and fulfill product orders with the required quality, and at the required time could be restricted. This could harm our reputation, reduce our sales or gross margins, and cause us to lose market share, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to manage our growth could strain our management, operational and other resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. Our growth strategy includes building our brand, increasing market penetration of our existing products, developing new products, increasing our targeting of large-sized hospitals in China, and increasing our exports. Pursuing these strategies has resulted in, and will continue to result in substantial demands on management resources. In particular, the management of our growth will require, among other things: • continued enhancement of our research and development capabilities; • hiring and training of new personnel; 12 Table of Contents • information technology system enhancement; • stringent cost controls and sufficient liquidity; • strengthening of financial and management controls and information technology systems; and • increased marketing, sales and sales support activities. If we are not able to manage our growth successfully, our business and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of products, and a reduction in demand for any of these products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a small number of products. Our five top selling products accounted for 45.0%, 35.8%, and 32.7% of our total net segment revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. In 2007, our best-selling product, the DC-6 color Doppler medical imaging system, accounted for 9.4% of our total net segment revenues. We expect a small number of our key products will continue to account for a significant portion of our net revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, continued market acceptance and popularity of these products is critical to our success, and a reduction in demand due to, among other factors, the introduction of competing products by our competitors, the entry of new competitors, or end-users’ dissatisfaction with the quality of these products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, it could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and non-disclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. We have received more than 245 patents in China covering various products and aspects of our products and have more than 340 additional patent applications pending in China. We have also filed more than 120 patent applications in the United States, which cover some of the more commercially significant aspects of our products and technologies. Due to the different regulatory bodies and varying requirements in the United States and China, we may be unable to obtain patent protection for certain aspects of our products or technologies in either or both of these countries. The process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive, our patent applications may fail to result in patents being issued, and our existing and future patents may be insufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Our patents and patent applications may also be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We also rely on trade secret rights to protect our business through non-disclosure provisions in employment agreements with employees. If our employees breach their non-disclosure obligations, we may not have adequate remedies in China, and our trade secrets may become known to our competitors. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and enforcement difficulties. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other western countries. Furthermore, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we may need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. Such litigation and an adverse determination in any such litigation, if any, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention, which could harm our business and competitive position. 13 Table of Contents We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement and other claims by third parties which, if successful, could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing third party intellectual property rights. As we increase our product sales internationally, and as litigation becomes more common in China, we face a higher risk of being the subject of claims for intellectual property infringement, invalidity or indemnification relating to other parties’ proprietary rights. Our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have or may obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in either China or other countries, including the United States and other countries in Asia. In addition, our acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business could expose us to potential intellectual property infringement and other claims. The validity and scope of claims relating to medical device technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, as a result, may be highly uncertain. In addition, the defense of intellectual property suits, including patent infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could cause us to: • pay damage awards; • seek licenses from third parties; • pay ongoing royalties; • redesign our products; or • be restricted by injunctions, each of which could effectively prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business and result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Unauthorized use of our brand name by third parties, and the expenses incurred in developing and preserving the value of our brand name, may adversely affect our business. We regard our brand name as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our brand name by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation, including the perceived quality and reliability of our products. We rely on trademark law, company brand name protection policies, and agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect the value of our brand name. Despite our precautions, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our brand name without authorization. In the past, we have experienced unauthorized use of our brand name in China and have expended resources and the attention and time of our management to successfully prosecute those who used our brand name without authorization. Moreover, litigation may be necessary to protect our brand name. However, because the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of trademarks in the PRC are uncertain and still evolving, we may not be successful in prosecuting these cases. Future litigation could also result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are in the process of registering our brand name and logo as trademark in countries outside of China. Our registration applications may not be successful in certain countries, which could weaken the protection of our brand name in those countries or may require that we market our products under different names in those countries. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain or maintain applicable regulatory clearances or approvals for our products, or if such clearances or approvals are delayed, we will be unable to commercially distribute and market our products at all or in a timely manner, which could significantly disrupt our business and materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability. The sale and marketing of our medical device products are subject to regulation in China and in most other countries where we conduct business. For a significant portion of our sales, we need to obtain and renew licenses and registrations with the PRC State Food and Drug Administration, or SFDA, the FDA, and the regulators administering CE marks in the European Union. The processes for obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals can be lengthy and expensive, and the results are unpredictable. In addition, the relevant regulatory authorities may introduce additional requirements or procedures that have the effect of delaying or prolonging the regulatory clearance or approval for our existing or new products. For example, personnel and policy changes at SFDA has slowed the approval process and delayed some of our planned product launches in 2007. If we are unable to obtain clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new products, or obtain such clearances or approvals in a timely fashion, our business would be significantly disrupted, and our sales and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. See “Regulation”. We are subject to product liability exposure and have limited insurance coverage. Any product liability claims or potential safety-related regulatory actions could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our main products are medical devices used in the diagnosis and monitoring of patients, exposing us to potential product liability claims if their use causes or results in, or is alleged to have caused or resulted in, in each case either directly or indirectly, personal injuries or other adverse effects. Any product liability claim or regulatory action could be costly and time-consuming to defend. If successful, product liability claims may require us to pay substantial damages. We maintain limited product liability insurance to cover potential product liability arising from the use of our products. As a result, future liability claims could be excluded or could exceed the coverage limits of our policy. As we expand our sales internationally and increase our exposure to these risks in many countries, we may be unable to maintain sufficient product liability insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A product liability claim or potential safety-related regulatory action, with or without merit, could result in significant negative publicity and materially and adversely affect the marketability of our products and our reputation, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, a material design, manufacturing or quality failure or defect in our products, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny could each warrant a product recall by us and result in increased product liability claims. If authorities in the countries where we sell our products decide that these products failed to conform to applicable quality and safety requirements, we could be subject to regulatory action. In China, violation of PRC product quality and safety requirements may subject us to confiscation of related earnings, penalties, an order to cease sales of the violating product or to cease operations pending rectification. Furthermore, if the violation is determined to be serious, our business license to manufacture or sell violating and other products could be suspended or revoked. Our revenues and profitability could be materially and adversely affected if there is a disruption in our existing arrangements with our original design manufacturing and original equipment manufacturing customers. In 2006 and 2007, ODM and OEM customers together accounted for 9.7% and 5.9%, respectively, of our net revenues. We have invested significant time and resources in cultivating these relationships. In particular, we are typically required to undergo lengthy product approval processes with these customers, which in some cases can take up to 16 months. The length of the approval process may vary and is affected by a number of factors, including customer priorities, customer budgets and regulatory issues. Delays in the product approval process could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our ODM and OEM customers may develop their own solutions or adopt a competitor’s solution for products that they currently purchase from us. We may be unable to maintain our existing arrangements 15 Table of Contents with our ODM and OEM customers. In particular, any failure in generating orders from these customers or decrease in sales to these customers, as well as any adoption by these customers of their own or our competitors’ product solutions, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and could fall below investor expectations, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly depending upon numerous factors. In particular, the first quarter of each year historically has lower, and the fourth quarter historically has higher, revenues and operating results than the other quarters of the year. We believe that our weaker first quarter performance has been largely due to the Chinese Lunar New Year Holiday and our stronger fourth quarter performance has been largely due to our customers spending their remaining annual budget amounts. Other factors that may affect our quarterly results include: • the loss of key customers; • changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • variations in the purchasing cycles of our customers; • the length of our sales and delivery cycle; • the timing and market acceptance of new product introductions by us or our competitors; • the timing of receipt of government incentives; • changes in the industry operating environment; • changes in government policies or regulations, including anti-commercial bribery laws and SFDA approval procedures for new products, or their enforcement; and • a downturn in general economic conditions in China or internationally. For example, our 2006 domestic revenues were negatively impacted by a curtailing of procurements from hospitals in China, which we believe was in response to an ongoing anti-corruption campaign targeted at the PRC healthcare industry, and by a delay in new product approvals by regulatory authorities. In 2007 there has been a positive impact on domestic revenues due to increasing government spending and government tenders, which may not continue in the future. Many of these factors are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline below investor expectations. You should not rely on our results of operations for prior quarters as an indication of our future results. If we experience a significant number of warranty claims, our costs could substantially increase and our reputation and brand could suffer. We typically sell our products with warranty terms covering 12 to 24 months after purchase. Products sold in the United States may come with warranty terms covering up to 36 months after purchase. Our product warranty requires us to repair all mechanical malfunctions and, if necessary, replace defective components. We accrue liability for potential warranty claims at the time of sale. If we experience an increase in warranty claims or if our repair and replacement costs associated with warranty claims increase significantly, we may have to accrue a greater liability for potential warranty claims. Moreover, an increase in the frequency of warranty claims could substantially increase our costs and harm our reputation and brand. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may suffer materially if we experience a significant increase in warranty claims on our products. 16 Table of Contents Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal shareholders. Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that our shareholders may view as beneficial. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to five votes per share. As of the date of this annual report, three of our shareholders and their affiliated entities owned approximately 31.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares, representing approximately 68.8% of our voting power due to our dual-class ordinary share structure. Our co-chief executive officers, Mr. Xu Hang and Mr. Li Xiting, and our executive vice president of strategic development, Mr. Cheng Minghe, through their respective affiliates, hold all of our Class B ordinary shares. These shareholders will continue to exert control over all matters subject to shareholder vote until they collectively own less than 20% of our outstanding ordinary shares. This concentration of voting power may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or other business combination, which could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your ADSs as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the trading price of our ADSs. The interests of Mr. Xu, Mr. Li, and Mr. Cheng as officers and employees of our company may differ from their interests as shareholders of our company or from your interests as a shareholder. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares, including Class A ordinary shares represented by ADSs, at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our Class A ordinary shares. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors authorizes the issuance of preferred shares, the trading price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our Class A ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. Certain actions require the approval of at least two-thirds of our board of directors which, among other things, would allow our non-independent directors to block a variety of actions or transactions, such as a merger, asset sale or other change of control, even if our independent directors unanimously voted in favor of such action, thereby further depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. In addition, our directors serve staggered terms of three years each, which means that shareholders can elect or remove only a limited number of our directors in any given year. The length of these terms could present an additional obstacle against the taking of action, such as a merger or other change of control, that could be in the interest of our shareholders. 17 Table of Contents We may need additional capital, and we may be unable to obtain such capital in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, or at all. For us to grow, remain competitive, develop new products, and expand our distribution network, we may require additional capital. Our ability to obtain additional capital is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for capital raising activities by medical device and related companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and internationally. We may be unable to obtain additional capital in a timely manner or on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, the terms and amount of any additional capital raised through issuances of equity securities may result in significant shareholder dilution. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. Depending upon the value of our shares and ADSs and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Based on the value of our outstanding shares during the year and the cash that we held and generated during the year, including the cash we raised in our initial public offering, we do not believe we were a PFIC for the taxable year 2007. However, we may become a PFIC for future taxable years, as PFIC status is tested each year and depends on our assets and income in such year. We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either: (1) the average percentage value of our gross assets during the taxable year that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the value of our total gross assets or (2) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. For example, we would be a PFIC for the taxable year 2008 if the sum of our average market capitalization, which is our share price multiplied by the total amount of our outstanding shares, and our liabilities over that taxable year is not more than twice the value of our cash, cash equivalents, and other assets that are readily converted into cash. In particular, we would likely become a PFIC if the value of our outstanding shares were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents. If we are classified as a “PFIC” in any taxable year in which you hold our ADSs or shares and you are a U.S. Holder, you would generally be taxed at higher ordinary income rates, rather than lower capital gain rates, if you dispose of ADSs or shares for a gain in a later year, even if we are not a PFIC in that year. In addition, a portion of the tax imposed on your gain would be increased by an interest charge. Moreover, if we were classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, you would not be able to benefit from any preferential tax rate with respect to any dividend distribution that you may receive from us in that year or in the following year. Finally, you would also be subject to special United States federal income tax reporting requirements. For more information on the United States federal income tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see Item 10.E, “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company”. We may be unable to ensure compliance with United States economic sanctions laws, especially when we sell our products to distributors over which we have limited control. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, administers certain laws and regulations that impose penalties upon U.S. persons and, in some instances, foreign entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons, for conducting activities or transacting business with certain countries, governments, entities or individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions, or U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws. We will not use any proceeds, directly or indirectly, from sales of our ADSs, to fund any activities or business with any country, government, entity or individual with respect to which U.S. persons or, as appropriate, foreign entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons, are prohibited by U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws from 18 Table of Contents conducting such activities or transacting such business. However, we sell our products in international markets through independent non-U.S. distributors which are responsible for interacting with the end-users of our products. Some of these independent non-U.S. distributors are located in or conduct business with countries subject to U.S. economic sanctions such as Cuba, Sudan, Iran, Syria and Myanmar, and we may not be able to ensure that such non-U.S. distributors comply with any applicable U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws. Moreover, if a U.S. distributor or our United States subsidiary, Mindray USA Corp., conducts activities or transacts business with a country, government, entity or individual subject to U.S. economic sanctions, such actions may violate U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws. As a result of the foregoing, actions could be taken against us that could materially and adversely affect our reputation and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, and as a result we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, requires that we include a report from management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 20-F. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. While our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2007, and our independent registered public accounting firm agreed and attested to our management’s assessment, our management may conclude in the future that our internal controls are not effective. This outcome could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Our reporting obligations as a public company will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting processes, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Changes in China’s economic, political and social condition could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We conduct a substantial majority of our business operations in China and derived approximately half of our 2007 revenues from sales in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected to a significant degree by economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage, but also to control, economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations applicable to us. Furthermore, the PRC government, through the People’s Bank of China, has implemented interest rate increases to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, including a slowing or decline in individual hospital spending, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various 19 Table of Contents forms of foreign investment in China. Our PRC operating subsidiary, Shenzhen Mindray, is a foreign-invested enterprise and is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China as well as laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. These laws and regulations change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protections that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into. As a result, these uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, of the listing and trading of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated a regulation that became effective on September 8, 2006. This regulation, among other things, has some provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals shall obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. We completed the initial listing and trading of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange on September 29, 2006. We did not seek CSRC approval in connection with either our initial public offering or our secondary offering completed in February 2007. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. Our PRC counsel, Jun He Law Offices, has advised us that because we completed our restructuring before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, it was not and is not necessary for us to submit the application to the CSRC for its approval, and the listing and trading of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange does not require CSRC approval. A copy of Jun He Law Offices’ legal opinion regarding this PRC regulation is filed as an exhibit to our registration statement on Form F-1 in connection with our secondary offering completed in February 2007, which is available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for our initial public offering or the secondary offering, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Also, if later the CSRC requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with and obtain approvals from relevant PRC 20 Table of Contents government authorities in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents in connection with our prior and any future offshore acquisitions. The SAFE regulation required registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies prior to the implementation of the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies on November 1, 2005. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. We previously notified and urged our shareholders, and the shareholders of the offshore entities in our corporate group, who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications and filings, as required under this regulation. However, as these regulations are relatively new and there is uncertainty concerning their reconciliation with other approval requirements, it is unclear how they, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. While we believe that these shareholders submitted applications with local SAFE offices, some of our shareholders may not comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by the regulation or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to obtain any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary to fund cash and financing requirements, and limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary Shenzhen Mindray for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. If Shenzhen Mindray incurs debt on its own behalf, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by Shenzhen Mindray only out of its retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, Shenzhen Mindray is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves, together with the registered equity, are not distributable as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2007, the amount of these restricted portions was approximately RMB175.0 million (US$24.0 million). As a result of these PRC laws and regulations, Shenzhen Mindray is restricted in its ability to transfer a portion of its net assets to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Limitations on the ability of Shenzhen Mindray to pay dividends to us could adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. A significant portion of our revenues and a majority of our operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, Shenzhen Mindray may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions,” including payment of dividends to us, without the approval of SAFE. However, 21 Table of Contents the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies. Since a significant portion of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside of China denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from, or registration with, SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. This could affect the ability of Shenzhen Mindray to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. As of December 31, 2007, our cash and cash equivalents were denominated in both Renminbi and U.S. dollars. In 2007, we began requiring payment in euro from customers located in jurisdictions where the euro is the official currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates between the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar and the euro affect our relative purchasing power and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi or the euro relative to the U.S. dollar could affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Renminbi is pegged against a basket of currencies, determined by the People’s Bank of China, against which it can rise or fall by as much as 0.5% each day. The Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or the euro in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued, or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or the euro. Fluctuations in exchange rates will also affect the relative value of any dividends we issue, which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make. Appreciation of the Renminbi relative to other foreign currencies could decrease the per unit revenues generated from international sales. If we increased our international pricing to compensate for the reduced purchasing power of foreign currencies, we would decrease the market competitiveness, on a price basis, of our products. This could result in a decrease in our international sales volumes. Very limited hedging instruments are available in China to reduce our exposure to Renminbi exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into Renminbi hedging transactions, the effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies could magnify our currency exchange risks. While we may enter into hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to other foreign currency exchange risks, the effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or the financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Before 2008, China maintained a dual tax system that contained one set of tax rules for PRC domestic enterprises and one for foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs. Though both domestic enterprises and FIEs were subject to the same income tax rate of 33%, there are various preferential tax treatments that were generally only available to FIEs, which resulted in the effective tax rates of FIEs being generally lower than those of domestic enterprises. The PRC government had provided various incentives to Shenzhen Mindray, which is an FIE. These incentives included reduced tax rates and other measures. For example, Shenzhen Mindray enjoyed preferential tax treatment, in the form of reduced tax rates or tax holidays, provided by the PRC government or its local agencies or bureaus. Shenzhen Mindray benefited from a 15% preferential corporate income tax rate and the preferential policy of “two years of exemption and six years of 50% reduction” of corporate income tax from the year it became profitable, resulting in an effective income tax rate of 7.5% through the end of 2006. Without these tax holidays and concessions, we would have had to pay additional tax totaling RMB18.1 million, RMB31.3 million, and RMBNil (US$Nil) in 2005, 2006, and 2007 respectively. 22 Table of Contents The China Unified Corporate Income Tax Law, or the New Law, became effective on January 1, 2008. The New Law established a single unified 25% income tax rate for most companies with some preferential income tax rates including a 15% income tax rate to be applicable to qualified “New and Hi-Tech Enterprises”. The related detailed implementation rules and regulations on the definition of various terms and the interpretation and application of the provisions of the New Law were promulgated by the State Council in December 2007. However, the application for “New and Hi-Tech Enterprise” under the New Law is pending for the implementation by the relevant government authorities. Under applicable accounting rules, until a company receives official approval for this status, it must use the transition rule in its calculation of its deferred tax balances, which means a gradual increase in rates over the five-year transition period, that is 18% at 2008, 20% at 2009, 22% at 2010, 24% at 2011 and 25% at 2012. If we had received the approval prior to December 31, 2007, our full year 2007 net income would have increased by RMB5.9 million using the 15% tax rate for 2008 and onward. We expect that we will apply for the “New and High-Tech Enterprise” status that will allow us a 15% tax rate for 2008 and onward under the New Law. Pending the result of our application for the “New and High-Tech Enterprise” status, the enactment of the New Law, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our historical operating results may not be indicative of our operating results for future periods as a result of the expiration of the tax holidays and value-added tax refunds we enjoy. In addition, under the New Law, dividends from our PRC subsidiaries for post 2007 retained earnings will be subject to a withholding tax of 5% and 10%, respectively, depending on the percentage of ownership. At this stage, we intend to retain the post 2007 retained earnings in PRC for permanent reinvestment. Should we change the intention in future, we will be required to adjust certain long term deferred tax liabilities which will result in a loss in the period the change takes effect. Pursuant to a PRC tax policy intended to encourage the development of software and integrated circuit industries, our primary operating subsidiary in the PRC, Shenzhen Mindray, was previously entitled to a refund of value-added tax paid at a rate of 14% of the sale value of self-developed software that is embedded in our products. The amount of the refund for this value-added tax included in net revenues was RMB24.6 million and RMB32.1 million in 2004 and 2005, respectively. In 2006 and 2007, our embedded self-developed software was not eligible for this value-added tax refund due to changes in the types of software that are eligible for this tax refund. Any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome or avian flu in China, or similar adverse public health developments, may severely disrupt our business and operations. Adverse public health epidemics or pandemics could disrupt businesses and the national economy of China and other countries where we do business. From December 2002 to June 2003, China and other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that the SARS outbreak had been contained. However, a number of isolated new cases of SARS were subsequently reported. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. Moreover, some Asian countries, including China, have recently encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that avian flu may have on our business. In particular, any future outbreak of SARS, avian flu or similar adverse public health developments may, among other things, significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business, and may adversely affect our operations. Furthermore, an outbreak may severely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, any future outbreak of SARS, avian flu or similar adverse public health developments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents 