ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as other information contained in this Form 10-K, including "Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations". The risks described below are those that we believe are the material risks we face. Any of these risks could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to our business and industry We do not have an operating history and our business may not succeed. We are a relatively new company with no operating results to date, and therefore you do not have an operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. In addition, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered by an early-stage company and in rapidly evolving markets, such as the ethanol market, where supply and demand may change significantly over a short period. Some of these risks relate to our potential inability to: •construct our planned plants; •commence significant operations; •retain key personnel, including plant managers, particularly as the industry expands and we face increasing competition; •effectively manage our business and operations; •successfully establish and maintain our intended low-cost structure; •predict the extent to which our operations may adversely impact the local price of our primary production inputs and our primary products; •manage rapid growth in personnel and operations; and •successfully address the other risks described throughout this Form 10-K. 25 If we cannot successfully manage these risks, our business and results of operations and financial condition will suffer. We may encounter unanticipated difficulties in constructing our plants. TIC Wyoming, a subsidiary of TIC, is constructing our Wood River and Fairmont plants and has not previously constructed an entire ethanol plant of the size and type we are constructing. In addition, the Delta-T technology utilized at our plants is currently in use only in ethanol plants with capacities of 60 Mmgy or less. We are aware of certain plant design issues that may impede start-up of the plants and continuous operations. We are in the process of addressing these issues. Further, we remain responsible for the construction of certain infrastructure outside of the Wood River and Fairmont plants, such as a rail loop and rail connections, natural gas interconnect pipelines and grain elevator improvements. As a result, we may encounter unanticipated difficulties and the construction and development of our proposed plants may be more costly or time-consuming than we anticipate. We have already announced delays in construction of the two plants and may encounter additional delays. We may be entitled to seek damages from TIC if we encounter unanticipated difficulties in constructing or operating our proposed plants, but our ability to seek damages may be limited. Under the engineering, procurement and construction, or EPC, contracts relating to our Wood River and Fairmont plants, TIC's liability is capped at 100% of the contract price until provisional acceptance of the relevant plant and 30% of the contract price thereafter. TIC may also be wholly or partially excused from performance under the EPC contracts due to certain force majeure events or delays or defaults on our part. Competition for qualified personnel in the ethanol industry is intense, and we may not be able to retain qualified personnel to operate our ethanol plants. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain competent personnel. For each of our plants, we must hire qualified managers, engineers and operations and other personnel, which can be challenging in a rural community. Competition for both managers and plant employees in the ethanol industry is intense. Although we have hired substantially all of the personnel necessary to operate our plants, we may not be able to maintain or retain qualified personnel. If we are unable to hire and maintain or retain productive and competent personnel, our strategy may be adversely affected and we may not be able to efficiently operate our ethanol plants upon completion of construction as planned. Delays and design defects may cause our costs to increase to levels that would make our new facilities too expensive to construct or unprofitable. While we continue to believe that the plants will become operational late in the second quarter of 2008, we have already announced delays in construction of the two plants and are aware of certain plant design issues that may impede start-up of the plants and continuous operations. We are in the process of addressing these issues. We may encounter additional delays or cost overruns that could prevent us from commencing operations as expected as a result of various factors. These factors include shortages of workers or materials, design issues, construction and equipment cost escalation, transportation constraints, adverse weather, unforeseen difficulties or labor issues, or changes in political administrations at the federal, state or local levels that result in policy change towards ethanol in general or our projects in particular. Defects in materials or workmanship could also delay the commencement of operations of our planned facilities, increase production costs or negatively affect the quality of our ethanol and distillers grain. Due to these or other unforeseen factors, we may not be able to proceed with the construction or operation of our ethanol production facilities under construction or in development in a timely manner or at all. 26 Increased acceptance of ethanol as a fuel and construction of additional ethanol production plants could lead to shortages of availability and increases in the price of corn. We anticipate that the expansion of the ethanol industry will lead to significantly greater demand for corn. Cargill, which has agreed to supply corn for our plants under construction, may have difficulty from time to time in sourcing corn on economical terms, due to supply shortages or elevated market prices. Any supply shortage could require us to suspend operations until corn becomes available on economical terms. Suspension of operations would materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, the price we pay for corn could increase if another ethanol production facility were built in the same general vicinity, if we expand one of our production facilities or based on market conditions. In Minnesota, one of our competitors has begun construction on a large scale ethanol production plant approximately six miles from our Fairmont site, near Welcome, Minnesota. Two plants in such close proximity could lead to increases in the price of corn or shortages of availability of corn in the area. In addition, the price of corn has increased significantly over historical levels in late 2006, through 2007 and to date in 2008. This increase in corn prices is due in part to the anticipated demand from new ethanol production plants under construction or development. We cannot assure you that the price of corn will not continue to rise, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to implement our strategy as planned or at all. Our strategy depends on our ability to develop and construct ethanol production facilities. While we currently have two facilities under construction, we have not yet begun construction of any of our prospective sites. The construction of any additional facilities is contingent on a number of significant uncertainties, including those described below. In addition, the two facilities that are currently under construction have encountered difficulties and delays during the construction process. As a result, we may be unable to construct our facilities under development. We may not be able to secure sites for our plants. We have entered into option agreements to purchase land for our prospective sites, but we have not yet secured property for any additional plants under evaluation. As a result of the significant expansion of ethanol production capacity currently underway in the United States, we believe that there is increasing and intense competition for suitable sites for ethanol plants, and we may not be able to secure suitable sites for construction of future facilities. In addition, title defects or other title problems may arise following the purchase of land options which may render the land unsuitable for the construction of an ethanol plant. We may not be able to obtain the approvals and permits that will be necessary in order to construct and operate our facilities as planned. Although we have begun the permitting process with respect to our three prospective sites, we have not yet obtained all of the required permits for the construction and operation of these other plants. Before we begin construction of these plants, we will need to obtain a number of required permits, which is often a time-consuming process. If we experience delays in obtaining the required approvals and permits for our prospective site, our expected construction start dates may be delayed. If we are unable to obtain the required approvals and permits for any of our prospective sites, we will not be able to construct these plants. In addition, in order to operate our new facilities, we will also need to obtain the final approval of the rail line operators that operate adjacent rail lines. In addition, federal and state governmental requirements could substantially increase our costs, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to secure construction services or supplies for our prospective sites on acceptable terms. Our strategy is particularly dependent on the continued availability of construction services. We have not entered into agreements for the engineering, procurement or construction with respect to any of our three prospective sites. Any such contracts would limit our exposure to higher costs in developing and completing new ethanol production facilities. We believe that contractors, engineering 27 firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers increasingly are receiving requests and orders from other companies to build ethanol production facilities, which has led to an escalation of projected construction costs and an increase in the length of time to construct ethanol plants. Therefore, we may not be able to secure their services or products for our prospective sites on a timely basis or on acceptable financial or commercial terms. We may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to construct plants on our prospective sites or to complete future acquisitions. We will need further funding to complete construction of any future plants or to complete any acquisitions that we may identify from time to time. We may finance unanticipated construction costs or acquisitions with additional indebtedness or by issuing additional equity securities. We may not have access to the required funding, or funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms. Excess production capacity in our industry resulting from new plants under construction or decreases in the demand for ethanol or distillers grain could adversely affect our business. According to the RFA, domestic ethanol production capacity has increased from approximately 1.8 billion gallons per year (Bgpy) in 2001, to an estimated 8.2 Bgpy at February 2008. The RFA estimates that, as of February 2008, approximately 5.2 Bgpy of additional production capacity, an increase of approximately 63% over current production levels, is under construction at 63 new and existing facilities. This estimate does not include certain expansion plans of other ethanol producers. Archer Daniels Midland Company, the second largest domestic ethanol producer, has announced plans to increase its production capacity by approximately 51% by mid-2009. As a result of this increase in production, the ethanol industry faces the risk of excess capacity. In a manufacturing industry with excess capacity, producers have an incentive to continue manufacturing products as long as the price of the product exceeds the marginal cost of production (i.e., the cost of producing only the next unit, without regard to interest, overhead or other fixed costs). If there is excess capacity in our industry, this could result in a reduction of the market price of ethanol to a level that is inadequate to generate sufficient cash flow to cover costs, which could result in an impairment charge and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If such circumstances were to arise, it would be extremely unlikely that the potential sale of one or more plants or plant sites would be worth pursuing at that time. Excess ethanol production capacity also may result from decreases in the demand for ethanol, which could result from a number of factors, including regulatory developments and reduced gasoline consumption in the United States. Reduced gasoline consumption could occur as a result of increased prices for gasoline or crude oil, which could cause businesses and consumers to reduce driving or acquire vehicles with more favorable gasoline mileage, or as a result of technological advances, such as the commercialization of hydrogen fuel-cells, which could supplant gasoline-powered engines. There are a number of governmental initiatives designed to reduce gasoline consumption, including tax credits for hybrid vehicles and consumer education programs. There is some evidence that reduced gasoline consumption has occurred in the recent past as gasoline prices have increased in the United States. In addition, because ethanol production produces distillers grain as a co-product, increased ethanol production will also lead to increased supplies of distillers grain. An increase in the supply of distillers grain, without corresponding increases in demand, could lead to lower prices. We are dependent upon our officers for management and direction, and the loss of any of these persons could adversely affect our operations and results. We are dependent upon the diligence and skill of our senior management for implementation of our proposed strategy and execution of our business plan. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team, particularly 28 Thomas J. Edelman, Scott H. Pearce, Daniel J. Simon, David J. Kornder and Timothy S. Morris. We rely on Mr. Edelman's experience managing natural resources companies and his skill and experience in acquiring and disposing of businesses and properties. We also rely on the expertise and business relationships of Messrs. Edelman, Pearce and Simon in identifying our plant sites and securing construction, supply, marketing and other arrangements for our plants. None of these individuals would be easy to replace on short notice. In addition, Mr. Edelman, our Chairman, also serves as Chairman of two other companies and is on the board of directors and a significant stockholder in several additional companies. As a result, Mr. Edelman can commit only a portion of his business time to our company. We do not have employment agreements with any of our officers or key employees, other than Mr. Pearce and Mr. Simon. We do not maintain "key person" life insurance for any of our officers or other employees. The loss of any of our officers could delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We will be dependent on our commercial relationship with Cargill and will be subject to various risks associated with this relationship. Our operating results may suffer if Cargill does not perform its obligations under our contracts. We have entered into an extensive commercial relationship with Cargill and will be dependent on Cargill for the success of our business. This relationship includes long-term marketing agreements with Cargill, under which Cargill has agreed to market and distribute 100% of the ethanol and distillers grain produced at our Wood River and Fairmont production plants. We have also entered into corn supply agreements with Cargill, under which Cargill will supply 100% of the corn for our Wood River and Fairmont plants. We intend to enter into ethanol and distillers grain marketing agreements and corn supply agreements with Cargill for our prospective sites, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into these agreements or that they will be on the same terms as the agreements currently in place with respect to our Wood River and Fairmont plants. The success of our business will depend on Cargill's ability to provide our production plants with the required corn supply in a cost-effective manner and to market and distribute our products successfully. If Cargill defaults on payments to us, fails to perform any of its responsibilities or does not perform its responsibilities as effectively as we expect them to, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Cargill may terminate the marketing and supply agreements if provisional acceptance of our Wood River and Fairmont plants does not occur by December 31, 2009. If provisional acceptance under our EPC contracts with TIC relating to our Wood River or Fairmont plant does not occur by December 31, 2009, Cargill may terminate the marketing and supply agreements relating to that plant. This means that if the completion of construction of either of the first two plants, currently scheduled for late in the second quarter of 2008, were delayed beyond December 31, 2009 for any reason, Cargill could terminate, or seek to renegotiate the terms of, its commercial agreements with us relating to the delayed plant. Without our commercial relationship with Cargill, we may not be able to acquire sufficient corn to produce ethanol and distillers grain at expected capacities and may not be able to market our products successfully. Cargill may terminate its arrangements with us in the event that certain parties acquire 30% or more of our common stock or the power to elect a majority of the Board. Cargill has the right to terminate its arrangements with us for any or all of our facilities if any of five identified parties or their affiliates acquires 30% or more of our common stock or the power to elect a majority of our Board of Directors. Cargill has designated five parties, each of which is currently engaged primarily in the agricultural commodities business, and it has the right to annually update this list of identified parties, so long as the list does not exceed five entities and the affiliates of such entities. The five parties currently identified by Cargill are Archer Daniels Midland Company, CHS Inc., Tate & Lyle PLC, The Scoular Company and Bunge Limited. Cargill's termination right may have the effect of deferring, delaying or discouraging transactions with these parties and their affiliates that might otherwise be 29 beneficial to us. If Cargill were to terminate any of our goods and services agreements, it would have a significant negative impact on our business and we would be unable to continue our operations at each affected facility until alternative arrangements were made. If we were required to make alternative arrangements, we may not be able to make such arrangements or, if we are able to make such arrangements, they may not be on terms as favorable as our agreements with Cargill. We currently have no agreements or structure in place that would prohibit any of the parties identified by Cargill from acquiring 30% or more of our common stock and we do not expect to have any such agreements or structures in the future. However, we have no expectation that any of these parties would have an interest in acquiring shares of our common stock. We monitor Schedule 13D filings so that we will be informed of any parties accumulating ownership of our stock. If any identified party accumulates a significant amount of stock, our Board of Directors will address the matter at that time consistent with its fiduciary duties under applicable law. If we do not meet certain quality and quantity standards under our marketing agreements with Cargill, our results of operations may be adversely affected. If our ethanol or distillers grain does not meet certain quality standards, Cargill may reject our products or accept our products and decrease the purchase price to reflect the inferior quality. In addition, if our distillers grain is subject to a recall reasonably determined by Cargill to be necessary, we will be responsible for all reasonable costs associated with the recall. If we fail to produce a sufficient amount of ethanol or distillers grain and, as a result, Cargill is required to purchase replacement products from third parties at a higher purchase price to meet sale commitments, we must pay Cargill the price difference plus a commission on the deficiency volume. Our failure to meet the quality and quantity standards in our marketing agreements with Cargill could adversely affect our results of operations. We will be subject to certain risks associated with Cargill's ethanol marketing pool. Under the terms of our ethanol marketing agreements, Cargill will place our ethanol in a common marketing pool with ethanol produced by Cargill and certain other third party producers. Each participant in the pool will receive the same price for its share of ethanol sold, net of freight and other agreed costs incurred by Cargill with respect to the pooled ethanol. Freight and other charges will be divided among pool participants based solely upon each participant's ethanol volume in the pool. As a result, we may be responsible for higher freight and other costs than we would be if we did not participate in the marketing pool, depending on the freight and other costs attributable to the other marketing pool members. We have the right to opt out of the ethanol marketing pool for any contract year by giving Cargill a six-month advance notice. However, we may be required to participate in the pool for an additional 18 months if Cargill has contractually committed to sell ethanol based on our continued participation in the pool. We are subject to certain risks associated with our corn supply agreements with Cargill. We have agreed to purchase our required corn supply for our Wood River and Fairmont plants exclusively from Cargill and will pay Cargill a per bushel fee for all corn Cargill sells to us. We cannot assure you that the prices we will pay for corn under our corn supply agreements with Cargill, together with the fee we have agreed to pay to Cargill, will be lower than the prices we could pay for corn from other sources. Our interests may conflict with the interests of Cargill. According to the RFA, as of February 2008, Cargill was the eleventh largest domestic producer of ethanol, producing approximately 120 Mmgy. In addition, we understand that Cargill markets ethanol for other third parties under the marketing pool arrangements described above. We cannot assure you that Cargill will not favor its own interests or those of other parties over our interests. Under our marketing agreements with Cargill, other than our right to terminate to the extent such conflict results in material quantifiable pecuniary loss, we have waived any claim of conflict of interest against Cargill for failure to use commercially reasonable efforts to maximize our returns to the extent such claims relate to an alleged conflict of interest or alleged preference to third parties for which Cargill provides marketing services. If we elected to terminate the 30 marketing agreements in these circumstances, we would need to enter into replacement marketing arrangements with another party, which may not be possible at all or on terms as favorable as our current agreements with Cargill. To the extent a conflict of interest does not result in material quantifiable pecuniary loss, we would be without recourse against Cargill. We may not be able to enter into definitive agreements with Cargill with respect to our prospective sites. Although we have entered into a letter agreement with Cargill with respect to our three additional prospective sites, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into definitive commercial agreements with Cargill relating to any future plants on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to enter into definitive commercial arrangements with Cargill with respect to these future plants, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into replacement agreements with another party on commercially reasonable terms or at all. New, more energy-efficient technologies for producing ethanol could displace corn-based ethanol and materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. The development and implementation of new technologies may impact our business significantly. The current trend in ethanol production research is to develop an efficient method of producing ethanol from cellulosic biomass such as agricultural waste, forest residue, and municipal solid waste. This trend is driven by the fact that cellulosic biomass is generally cheaper than corn and producing ethanol from cellulosic biomass would create opportunities to produce ethanol in areas that are unable to grow corn. Another trend in ethanol production research is to produce ethanol through a chemical process rather than a fermentation process, thereby significantly increasing the ethanol yield per pound of feedstock. Although current technology does not allow these production methods to be cost competitive, new technologies may develop that would allow these or other methods to become viable means of ethanol production in the future thereby displacing corn-based ethanol in whole or in part or intensifying competition in the ethanol industry. Our planned plants are designed to produce corn-based ethanol through a fermentation process. If we are unable to adopt or incorporate these advances into our operations, our cost of producing ethanol could be significantly higher than those of our competitors, and retrofitting our plants may be very time-consuming and could require significant capital expenditures. In addition, advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol, such as alternative fuel additives, or technological advances in engine and exhaust system design performance, such as the commercialization of hydrogen fuel-cells or hybrid engines, or other factors could significantly reduce demand for or eliminate the need for ethanol. We cannot predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies, the costs associated with new technologies or whether these other factors may harm demand for ethanol. We expect to incur a significant amount of indebtedness to construct our facilities, a substantial portion of which will be secured by our assets. We expect to borrow approximately $230 million in order to finance the construction, overhead and financing costs of our two facilities, of which $124 million was borrowed as of December 31, 2007. We may also borrow additional amounts in order to finance construction or acquisition of, or investment in, additional ethanol production projects. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences by adversely affecting our financial position. Our substantial indebtedness could: •require us to dedicate all of our cash flow from operations (after the payments of operating expenses) to payments with respect to our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate expenditures; •restrict our ability to take advantage of strategic opportunities 31 •increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, competition or changes in our business or industry; •limit our ability to borrow additional funds; •restrict us from building new facilities or exploring business opportunities; and •place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt or greater financial resources. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash from our operations. Our ability to generate cash from operations is subject, in large part, to general economic, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors and other factors that are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate enough cash flow from operations or obtain enough capital to service our debt or fund our planned capital expenditures. If we do not have sufficient cash flow to service our debt, we would need to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, any or all of which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We are subject to risks associated with our existing debt arrangements. Our bank facility. The subsidiaries that own our Wood River and Fairmont plants have entered into a bank facility with a group of financial institutions that is secured by substantially all of those subsidiaries' assets. Although we have completed our initial borrowing under our bank facility, additional borrowings remain subject to the satisfaction of a number of additional conditions precedent, including compliance with debt covenants and the provision of engineers' reports satisfactory to the lenders. To the extent that we are not able to satisfy these requirements, we will not be able to make additional borrowings under the bank facility without obtaining a waiver or consent from the lenders, which could result in a delay of our construction. The terms of the bank facility include customary events of default and covenants that limit the applicable subsidiaries from taking certain actions without obtaining the consent of the lenders. In particular, our bank facility places significant restrictions on the ability of those subsidiaries to distribute cash to the Operating Company, which limits our ability to use cash generated by those subsidiaries for other purposes. In addition, the bank facility restricts those subsidiaries' ability to incur additional indebtedness. Under our bank facility, if Cargill, or as long as any warranty obligations remain outstanding under our Wood River or Fairmont EPC contracts, TIC or Delta-T admits in writing its inability to, or is generally unable to, pay its debts as such debts become due, we will be deemed to be in default. In addition, the construction loans for our Wood River and Fairmont plants under our bank facility will become due and payable on June 30, 2009, unless certain conditions precedent are met by that date, including the substantial completion of those plants. If our Wood River and Fairmont plants are not substantially complete by June 30, 2009, any outstanding borrowings under our bank facility will be immediately due and payable, and we may not have sufficient funds to repay the borrowings. Moreover, because the bank facility only contains limits on the amount of indebtedness that certain of our subsidiaries may incur, we have the ability to incur substantial additional indebtedness, and any additional indebtedness we incur could exacerbate the risks described above. Our subordinated debt agreement. The Operating Company has entered into a subordinated debt agreement with entities affiliated with Greenlight Capital, Inc. and entities and individuals affiliated 32 with Third Point LLC. Subordinated borrowings are secured by the subsidiary equity interests owned by the Operating Company. A default under our senior debt would also constitute a default under our subordinated debt and would entitle the lenders to accelerate the repayment of amounts outstanding. In the event of a default, the lenders could also proceed to foreclose against the assets securing such obligations. Because the debt under our existing arrangements subjects substantially all of our assets to liens, there may be no assets left for stockholders in the event of a liquidation. In the event of a foreclosure on all or substantially all of our assets, we may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. Our future debt facilities will likely be secured by substantially all our assets. We expect that the debt we will incur to finance any future plants will be incurred either pursuant to a new corporate credit facility that would replace our current bank facility and would be secured by substantially all of our assets or, in the alternative, by different, newly-formed subsidiaries, secured by substantially all of the assets related to those additional plants. Because the debt under these facilities may subject substantially all of our assets to liens, there may be no assets left for stockholders in the event of a liquidation. Our profit margins may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the selling price and production cost of gasoline. Ethanol is marketed as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of the gasoline with which it is blended and, to a lesser extent, as a gasoline substitute. As a result, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply of and demand for gasoline. Our results of operations may be materially harmed if the demand for, or the price of, gasoline decreases. Conversely, a prolonged increase in the price of, or demand for, gasoline could lead the U.S. government to relax import restrictions on foreign ethanol that currently benefit us. Any facility that we complete may not operate as planned. A disruption in our operations could result in a reduction of sales volume and could cause us to incur substantial losses. Our revenues will be derived from the sale of ethanol and distillers grain that we produce at our facilities. Any facility we construct may have operational problems preventing production at its expected capacity or requiring halts in production. Furthermore, local water, electricity and gas utilities may not be able to reliably supply the resources that our facilities will need or may not be able to supply them on acceptable terms. Our operations may be subject to significant interruption if any of our facilities experiences a major accident or is damaged by severe weather or other natural disasters. In addition, our operations may be subject to labor disruptions, unscheduled downtime or other operational hazards inherent in our industry. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover the potential operational hazards described above and we may not be able to renew our insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we will be particularly dependent on our Wood River and Fairmont plants, and the effects of a disruption at these plants could have a more significant effect on our business. Our business will be highly dependent on commodity prices, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty, and on the availability of raw materials supplies, so our results of operations, financial condition and business outlook may fluctuate substantially. Our results of operations will depend substantially on the prices of various commodities, particularly the prices for ethanol, corn, natural gas and unleaded gasoline. The prices of these 33 commodities are volatile and beyond our control. See "Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for information regarding changes in the prices of ethanol, corn and natural gas during the three year period from 2005 through 2007. As a result of the volatility of the prices for these items, our results may fluctuate substantially. We may experience periods during which the prices of our products decline and the costs of our raw materials increase, which in turn may result in operating losses or impairment charges and hurt our financial condition. If a substantial imbalance occurred, we may take actions to mitigate the effect of the imbalance, such as storing our uncontracted ethanol for a period of time. These actions could involve additional costs and could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our business will be highly sensitive to corn prices, and we generally cannot pass along increases in corn prices to our customers. Corn is the principal raw material we will use to produce ethanol and distillers grain. We expect corn costs to represent approximately 75% of our total operating expenses, assuming a corn price of $5.00 per bushel. Changes in the price of corn therefore will significantly affect our business. In general, rising corn prices result in lower profit margins and may result in negative margins if not accompanied by increases in ethanol prices. Under current market conditions, because ethanol competes with fuels that are not corn-based, we generally will be unable to pass along increased corn costs to our customers. At certain levels, corn prices would make ethanol uneconomical to use in fuel markets. Over the period from January 2005 through December 2007, corn prices, based on the Chicago Board of Trade, or CBOT, daily futures data, have ranged from a low of $1.64 per bushel in October 2005 to a high of $4.26 per bushel in December 2007, with prices averaging $2.65 per bushel during this three year period. As of February 29, 2008, the CBOT spot price of corn was $5.46 per bushel. The price of corn is influenced by a number of factors, including weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions and general economic, market and regulatory factors, government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local supply and demand. In addition, any event that tends to increase the demand for corn could cause the price of corn to increase. We believe that the increasing ethanol production capacity has contributed to, and will continue to contribute to, a period of elevated corn prices compared to historical levels. The price spread between ethanol and corn can vary significantly. Our gross profit will depend principally on our "crush spread", which is the difference between the price of a gallon of ethanol and the price of the amount of corn required to produce a gallon of ethanol. Using our dry-mill technology, we expect each bushel of corn to produce approximately 2.7 gallons of fuel grade ethanol. From 2005 through 2007, this spread has fluctuated widely, as average U.S. ethanol rack prices, reported by Bloomberg, have ranged from $1.18 to $3.98 per gallon, and Chicago No. 2 yellow corn spot prices have ranged from $1.64 to $4.26 per bushel. As of February 29, 2008, based on these same sources, the ethanol rack price was $2.32 per gallon, the spot price of corn was $5.46 per bushel. Based on the three year average price of a bushel of corn of $2.65, the cost of corn per gallon of ethanol would be approximately $0.99 (.37 bushels per gallon × $2.65). As such, the "crush spread" would have been $1.16 per gallon based on the 2005 to 2007 average ethanol price of $2.15 per gallon. In early 2008, the spread between the average U.S. rack price for a gallon of ethanol and the amount of corn required to produce a gallon of ethanol has declined to approximately $0.30 per gallon due largely to the significant increases in corn prices, averaging over $5.25 per bushel. We expect fluctuations in the crush spread to continue. Any reduction in the crush spread, whether as a result of an increase in corn prices or a reduction in ethanol prices, could result in an impairment charge and adversely affect our results of operations. A prolonged significant reduction in the crush spread could affect our ability to obtain financing for our additional prospective sales or for any planned acquisitions. 34 The market for natural gas is subject to market conditions that create uncertainty in the price and availability of the natural gas that we will use in our manufacturing process. We will rely upon third parties for our supply of natural gas, which we will use in the ethanol production process. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. The fluctuations in natural gas prices over the period from January 2005 through December 2007, based on the New York Mercantile Exchange, or NYMEX, daily futures data, have ranged from a low of $3.63 per Mmbtu in September 2006 to a high of $15.39 per Mmbtu in December 2005, averaging $7.51 per Mmbtu during this three year period. As of February 29, 2008, the NYMEX spot price of natural gas was $9.37 per Mmbtu. These market conditions are often affected by factors beyond our control such as the price of oil as a competitive fuel, higher prices resulting from colder than average weather conditions or the impact of hurricanes and overall economic conditions. Depending upon business conditions, we anticipate using approximately 7,200,000 Mmbtu's of natural gas annually when our Wood River and Fairmont plants are fully operational. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could impair our ability to manufacture ethanol for our customers. Furthermore, increases in natural gas prices could adversely affect our results of operations. Our results may be adversely affected by hedging transactions and other strategies. We may enter into contracts to supply a portion of our ethanol and distillers grain production or to purchase a portion of our corn or natural gas requirements on a forward basis to offset some of the effects of volatility of ethanol prices and costs of commodities. From time to time, we may also engage in other hedging transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts for corn and natural gas. The financial statement impact of these activities will depend upon, among other things, the prices involved and our ability to sell sufficient products to use all of the corn and natural gas for which we have futures contracts or our ability to sell excess corn or natural gas purchased in hedging transactions. Hedging arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or, in the case of exchange-traded contracts, where there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual prices paid or received by us. Hedging activities can result in losses when a position is purchased in a declining market or a position is sold in a rising market. A hedge position is often settled when the physical commodity is either purchased (corn and natural gas) or sold (ethanol or distillers grain). We may experience hedging losses in the future. We may also vary the amount of hedging or other price mitigation strategies we undertake, and we may choose not to engage in hedging transactions at all. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by increases in the price of corn or natural gas or decreases in the price of ethanol. We may not be able to compete effectively. Upon completion and successful operation of our ethanol plants, we expect to compete with a number of significant ethanol producers in the United States, including Archer Daniels Midland Company, VeraSun Energy Corporation, Aventine Renewable Energy, Inc., Abengoa Bioenergy Corporation, Poet, Pacific Ethanol, Inc. and Hawkeye Holdings Inc. Some of our competitors are divisions of larger enterprises and have substantially greater financial resources than we do. According to the RFA, the three largest producers (Archer Daniels Midland Company, Poet and Verasun Energy Corporation) together control 39% of the ethanol market and based on capacity under construction, are expected to control 36% of the production capacity in the United States. In addition to the larger sized competitors described above, there are many smaller competitors that have been able to compete successfully in the ethanol industry made up mostly of farmer-owned cooperatives and independent firms consisting of groups of individual farmers and investors. As many of these smaller competitors are farmer-owned, they receive greater government subsidies than we will and often require their farmer-owners to commit to selling them a certain amount of corn as a 35 requirement of ownership. We expect competition to increase as the ethanol industry becomes more widely known and demand for ethanol increases. In addition, Cargill operates its own ethanol facilities and markets ethanol for other parties. If Cargill decides to forgo future opportunities to do business with us, or chooses to give these opportunities to our competitors or to retain them for itself, whether due to our performance or for reasons beyond our control, our business may not perform as expected. We also face increasing competition from international suppliers. International suppliers produce ethanol primarily from sugar cane and have cost structures that may be substantially lower than ours. Although there is a $0.54 per gallon tariff on foreign-produced ethanol that is approximately equal to the federal blenders' credit, ethanol imports equivalent to up to 7% of total domestic production in any given year from various countries were exempted from this tariff under the Caribbean Basin Initiative in order to spur economic development in Central America and the Caribbean. In addition, this tariff is currently scheduled to expire in January 2009, and there can be no assurance that it will be renewed beyond that time. Any increase in domestic or foreign competition could force us to reduce our prices and take other steps to compete effectively, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Growth in the sale and distribution of ethanol depends on changes to and expansion of related infrastructure which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all. It currently is impracticable to transport by pipeline fuel blends that contain ethanol. Substantial development of infrastructure will be required by persons and entities outside our control for our business, and the ethanol industry generally, to grow. Areas requiring expansion include, but are not limited to: •additional rail car capacity; •additional storage facilities for ethanol; •increases in truck fleets capable of transporting ethanol within localized markets; •investment in refining and blending infrastructure to handle ethanol; •growth in service stations equipped to handle ethanol fuels; and •growth in the fleet of FFVs cable of using E85 fuels. The substantial investments or government support required for these infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made on a timely basis or at all. Any delay or failure in making the changes to or expansion of infrastructure could weaken the demand or prices for our products, impede our delivery of products, impose additional costs on us or otherwise materially harm our results of operations or financial position. Transportation delays, including as a result of disruptions to infrastructure, could adversely affect our operations. Our business will depend on the availability of rail and road distribution infrastructure. Any disruptions in this infrastructure network, whether caused by earthquakes, storms, other natural disasters or human error or malfeasance, could materially impact our business. It currently is impracticable to transport by pipeline fuel blends that contain ethanol, and we will have limited ethanol storage capacity at our facilities. Therefore, any unexpected delay in transportation of our ethanol could result in significant disruption to our operations, possibly requiring shutting down our plant operations. We will rely upon others to maintain our rail lines from our production plants to national rail networks, and any failure on their part to maintain the lines could impede our delivery of products, 36 impose additional costs on us or otherwise cause our results of operations or financial condition to suffer. Disruptions in the supply of oil or natural gas could materially harm our business. Significant amounts of oil and natural gas are required for the growing, fertilizing and harvesting of corn, as well as for the fermentation, distillation and transportation of ethanol and the drying of distillers grain. A serious disruption in the supply of oil or natural gas and any related period of elevated prices could significantly increase our production costs and possibly require shutting down our plant operations which would materially harm our business. Our business may be influenced by seasonal fluctuations. Our operating results may be influenced by seasonal fluctuations in the price of our primary operating inputs, corn and natural gas, and the price of our primary product, ethanol. The spot price of corn tends to rise during the spring planting season in May and June and tends to decrease during the fall harvest in October and November, although corn prices did not follow this pattern in 2007. The price for natural gas, however, tends to move inversely to that of corn and tends to be lower in the spring and summer and higher in the fall and winter. In addition, ethanol prices have historically been substantially correlated with the price of unleaded gasoline. The price of unleaded gasoline tends to rise during the summer and winter. Due to the blender's credit, ethanol historically has traded at a per gallon premium to gasoline, although since late 2007, ethanol has traded at a discount to gasoline. This discount is believed to be the result of the rapid growth in the supply of ethanol compounded by the limited infrastructure and blending capacity required for distribution. Given our lack of operating history, we do not know yet how these seasonal fluctuations will affect our operating results over time. The price of distillers grain is affected by the price of other commodity products, such as soybeans, and decreases in the price of these commodities could decrease the price of distillers grain. Distillers grain is one of many animal feed products and competes with other protein-based animal feed products. The price of distillers grain may decrease when the price of competing feed products decreases. The prices of competing animal feed products are based in part on the prices of the commodities from which they are derived. Downward pressure on commodity prices, such as soybeans, will generally cause the price of competing animal feed products to decline, resulting in downward pressure on the price of distillers grain. Because the price of distillers grain is not tied to production costs, decreases in the price of distillers grain will result in us generating less revenue and lower profit margins. In addition, the production of distillers grain is expected to rise significantly in connection with the projected expansion of ethanol production capacity in the United States over the next several years. As a result of this likely significant increase in supply, the market price of distillers grain may fall sharply from its current levels. If the market price of distillers grain falls, our business and financial results may be harmed. Our financial results may be adversely affected by potential future acquisitions or sales of our plants, which could divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. As part of our business strategy, we intend to (1) pursue acquisitions of other ethanol producers, building sites, production facilities, storage or distribution facilities and selected infrastructure and (2) seek opportunities to sell one or more plants or plant sites on a basis more favorable than we would expect to realize by holding them. Due to increased competition, however, we may not be able to secure suitable acquisition opportunities. Further, we may not be able to find a buyer or buyers for one or more of our plants or plant sites at prices that we consider attractive. 37 In addition, the completion of any acquisition may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our currently planned operations. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity securities or debt that is convertible into equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could affect the market price of our common stock. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. The domestic ethanol industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The elimination of, or any significant reduction in, the blenders' credit could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. The cost of production of ethanol is made significantly more competitive with that of gasoline as a result of federal tax incentives. Before January 1, 2005, the federal excise tax incentive program allowed gasoline distributors that blended ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax rate reduction for each blended gallon they sold. If the fuel was blended with 10% ethanol, the refiner/marketer paid $0.052 per gallon of ethanol sold less tax, which amounted to an incentive of $0.52 per gallon of ethanol. The $0.52 per gallon incentive for ethanol was reduced to $0.51 per gallon in 2005 and is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010. It is possible that the blenders' credit will not be renewed beyond 2010 or will be renewed on different terms. In addition, the blenders' credit, as well as other federal and state programs benefiting ethanol (such as tariffs), generally are subject to U.S. government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and may be the subject of challenges, in whole or in part. If the blenders' credit is not extended by June 30, 2009, or is scheduled to expire less than 18 months from any date after June 30, 2009, the amounts we will be required to deposit into an excess cash flow sweep account under our bank facility will increase. The elimination of or significant changes to the Freedom to Farm Act could reduce corn supplies. In 1996, Congress passed the Freedom to Farm Act, which allows farmers continued access to government subsidies while reducing restrictions on farmers' decisions about land use. This act not only increased acreage dedicated to corn crops but also allowed farmers more flexibility to respond to increases in corn prices by planting greater amounts of corn. The elimination of this act could reduce the amount of corn available in future years and could reduce the farming industry's responsiveness to the increasing corn needs of ethanol producers. Ethanol can be imported into the United States duty-free from some countries, which may undermine the domestic ethanol industry. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff that was designed to offset the $0.51 per gallon ethanol incentive available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries that blend ethanol in their gasoline. A special exemption from the tariff exists for ethanol imported from 24 countries in Central America and the Caribbean Islands, which is limited to a total of 7.0% of U.S. production per year. In addition, the North American Free Trade Agreement, which went into effect on January 1, 1994, allows Canada and Mexico to import ethanol duty-free. Imports from the exempted countries may increase as a result of new plants under development. Production costs for ethanol in these countries can be significantly less than in the United States and the duty-free import of lower price ethanol through the countries exempted from the tariff may reduce the demand for domestic ethanol and the price at which we sell our ethanol. 38 The effect of the Renewable Fuel Standard, or RFS, program in the Energy Independence and Security Act signed into law in December 2007 and the Energy Policy Act signed into law in August 2005 is uncertain. The use of fuel oxygenates, including ethanol, was mandated through regulation, and much of the forecasted growth in demand for ethanol was expected to result from additional mandated use of oxygenates. Most of this growth was projected to occur in the next few years as the remaining markets switch from MTBE to ethanol. The recently enacted Energy Independence and Security Act and the Energy Policy Act, however, eliminated the mandated use of oxygenates and instead established minimum nationwide levels of renewable fuels—ethanol, biodiesel or any other liquid fuel produced from biomass or biogas—to be blended with gasoline. The legislation also included provisions for trading of credits for use of renewable fuels and authorized potential reductions in the RFS minimum by action of a governmental administrator. The rules for implementation of the RFS and the energy bill became effective in September 2007, and the ultimate effects of these rules on the ethanol industry are uncertain. In addition, the favorable ethanol provisions in the 2007 Act and 2005 Act may be adversely affected by the enactment of additional legislation. The legislation did not include MTBE liability protection sought by refiners. Management predicts that this lack of protection may result in accelerated removal of MTBE and increased demand for ethanol. Refineries, however, may use replacement additives other than ethanol, such as iso-octane, iso-octene and alkylate. Accordingly, the actual demand for ethanol may increase at a lower rate than previously estimated, resulting in excess production capacity in our industry, which would negatively affect our business. Waivers of the RFS minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Under the Energy Policy Act, the U.S. Department of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy, may waive the renewable fuels mandate with respect to one or more states if the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency determines that implementing the requirements would severely harm the economy or the environment of a state, a region or the nation, or that there is inadequate supply to meet the requirement. Any waiver of the RFS with respect to one or more states would reduce demand for ethanol and could cause our results of operations to decline and our financial condition to suffer. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are, and will be, upon completion of our ethanol production facilities, subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, access to and impacts on water supply, and the health and safety of our employees. Some of these laws and regulations will require our facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can require expensive emissions testing and pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and facility shutdowns. We may not be at all times in compliance with these laws, regulations or permits or we may not have all permits required to operate our business. We may be subject to legal actions brought by environmental advocacy groups and other parties for actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permits. In addition, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits. We may be liable for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at any of the properties that we own or operate and at off-site locations where we arrange for the disposal of hazardous substances. If these substances have been or are disposed of or released at sites that undergo investigation or remediation by regulatory agencies, we may be responsible under CERCLA, or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of investigation and remediation, and for damage to 39 natural resources. We also may be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from those properties. Some of these matters may require us to expend significant amounts for investigation, cleanup or other costs. New laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require us to make additional significant expenditures. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at our production facilities. Environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations now or in the future, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures that could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position. For example, carbon dioxide is a co-product of the ethanol manufacturing process and may be released into the atmosphere. Emissions of carbon dioxide resulting from the manufacturing process are not currently subject to applicable permit requirements. If new laws or regulations are passed relating to the production, disposal or emissions of carbon dioxide, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such new laws or regulations. The hazards and risks, such as fires, natural disasters, explosions and abnormal pressures and blowouts, associated with producing and transporting ethanol also may result in personal injury claims or damage to property and third parties. We could sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of our insurance coverage. Events that result in significant personal injury or damage to our property or third parties or other losses that are not fully covered by insurance could materially harm our results of operations and financial position. Risks relating to our organizational structure Our only material asset is our interest in BioFuel Energy, LLC, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from BioFuel Energy, LLC to pay dividends, taxes and other expenses. BioFuel Energy Corp. is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of membership interests in the Operating Company. BioFuel Energy Corp. has no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause the Operating Company to make distributions to its members in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable and dividends, if any, declared by us. Our bank facility contains negative covenants, which limit the ability of our operating subsidiaries to declare or pay dividends or distributions. To the extent that BioFuel Energy Corp. needs funds, and the Operating Company is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulations, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds due, for example, to the restrictions in our bank facility that limit the ability of our operating subsidiaries to distribute funds, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially harmed. We will be required to pay the historical Operating Company equity investors for a portion of the benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of tax basis step-ups we receive in connection with future exchanges of BioFuel Energy, LLC membership interests for shares of our common stock. The membership interests in the Operating Company held by the historical Operating Company equity investors may in the future be exchanged for shares of our common stock. The exchanges may result in increases in the tax basis of the assets of the Operating Company that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in tax basis may reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the IRS may challenge all or part of the tax basis increases, and a court could sustain such a challenge. We have entered into a tax benefit sharing agreement with the historical Operating Company equity investors that will provide for the payment by us to the historical Operating Company equity 40 investors of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of these increases in tax basis. The increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, and the amount and timing of our income. As a result of the size of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of the Operating Company attributable to our interest in the Operating Company, during the expected term of the tax benefit sharing agreement, we expect that the payments that we may make to the historical Operating Company equity investors could be substantial. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase, the historical Operating Company equity investors will not reimburse us for any payments that may previously have been made under the tax benefit sharing agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances we could make payments to the historical Operating Company equity investors under the tax benefit sharing agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under the tax benefit sharing agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income. Provisions in our charter documents and our organizational structure may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party or may reduce the value of your investment. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder may deem to be in his or her best interest. For example, our Board may determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. In addition, stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate Directors or to propose business to be considered at a meeting of stockholders and may not take action by written consent. Our corporate structure, which provides our historical Operating Company equity investors, through the shares of Class B common stock they will hold, a number of votes equal to the number of shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of their membership interests in the Operating Company, may also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a future takeover or change in control of our company. The existence of these provisions and this structure could also limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. If BioFuel Energy Corp. were deemed an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as a result of its ownership of BioFuel Energy, LLC, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If BioFuel Energy Corp. were to cease participation in the management of the Operating Company, its interest in the Operating Company could be deemed an "investment security" for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act. Generally, a person is deemed to be an "investment company" if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items), absent an applicable exemption. BioFuel Energy Corp. has no material assets other than its equity interest in the Operating Company. A determination that this interest was an investment security could result in BioFuel Energy Corp. being an investment company under the 1940 Act and becoming subject to the registration and other requirements of the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the 1940 Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to conduct our operations so that BioFuel Energy Corp. will not be deemed to be an investment company 41 under the 1940 Act. However, if anything were to happen that would cause BioFuel Energy Corp. to be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act, requirements imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates and ability to compensate key employees, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among BioFuel Energy Corp., the Operating Company or the historical equity investors, or any combination thereof and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to the ownership of our common stock The existing market for our common stock is illiquid, and we do not know whether a liquid trading market will develop. Prior to our initial public offering, our common stock had not been traded on a public market. Although our common stock is now listed on NASDAQ, the trading market is relatively illiquid as there are less than 6.0 million shares in publicly traded hands, exclusive of any officers, directors and affiliates. As a result, there are few institutional stockholders and we do not receive a significant amount of analyst coverage. An illiquid market will limit your ability to resell shares of our common stock. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors beyond our control. Some of these factors are: •our results of operations and the performance of our competitors; •the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC; •changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who follow us or other companies in our industry; •changes in general economic conditions; •changes in market prices for our products (ethanol and distillers grains) or for our raw materials (primarily corn and natural gas); •actions of the historical equity investors, including sales of common stock by our Directors and executive officers; •actions by institutional investors trading in our stock; •disruption of our operations; •any major change in our management team; •other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors; and •U.S. and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. In recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause declines in the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company or its performance, and those fluctuations could materially reduce our common stock price. 42 Certain stockholders' shares are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly. We currently have outstanding approximately 15.9 million shares of common stock and 17.4 million shares of Class B common stock. Of these shares, the approximately 6.0 million shares we sold in our initial public offering in June 2007 are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, except for any shares purchased by one of our "affiliates" as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. All of the shares outstanding other than the shares sold in the initial public offering are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act and will become eligible for sale in the public market over time under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, subject to volume limitations and other restrictions contained in Rule 144. In addition, holders of these shares will have the right to require us to register the resale of their shares. If holders sell substantial amounts of these shares, the price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. The historical equity investors, including some of our officers and Directors own a significant percent of our shares and will exert significant influence over us. Their interests may not coincide with yours and they may make decisions with which you may disagree. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the holders of shares of our Class B common stock will be entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. Accordingly, Greenlight Capital, Inc. and its affiliates, Third Point LLC and its affiliates and Cargill each control approximately 36.0%, 18.0% and 5.1% of the voting power in BioFuel Energy Corp., respectively, and our officers and Directors together control approximately 70.1% of the voting power in BioFuel Energy Corp. The shares of common stock and Class B common stock held by affiliates of Greenlight Capital, Inc. and Third Point LLC, which are controlled by our Directors David Einhorn and Daniel S. Loeb, respectively, were included in the calculation of voting power attributable to our officers and Directors. The historical equity investors (including the private purchasers), acting together, could effect substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of Directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other stockholders. Accordingly, these stockholders could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that you would not approve or make decisions with which you may disagree. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our available cash, if any, for use as working capital and for other general corporate purposes, including to service our debt and to fund the development and operation of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that the Board of Directors deems relevant. In addition, our bank facility imposes restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries that will own our Wood River and Fairmont plants to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which will restrict our ability to pay dividends. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. 43 The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. We are required to comply with laws, regulations and requirements, including certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations of the SEC and requirements of NASDAQ. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of the time of our Board of Directors and management. We are required to: •institute a comprehensive compliance function; •maintain internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading; •design, establish, evaluate and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC; •prepare and distribute periodic reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws; •involve and retain outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and •establish an investor relations function. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired, and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or NASDAQ. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 or a report of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in us and may have a material adverse effect on our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 