Item 1A Risk Factors 11 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2 Properties 19 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 21 PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 24 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 43 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 43 Item 9B Other Information 44 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of the Registrant 44 Item 11 Executive Compensation 44 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 44 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 44 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 44 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 45 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements which constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements can often be identified by the use words such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “might,” “will,” “should,” “seek,” “on-track,” “plan,” “intend” or “anticipate,” or the negative thereof or comparable terminology. In addition, expressions or discussions of our strategy, plans, prospects or future results are forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management’s current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their date, and that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Our business and operations are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties and, consequently, our actual results may materially differ from those projected or implied by any forward-looking statements. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are discussed below under Item 1A–Risk Factors. We make no commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date any such statement is made. PART I Essex Rental Corp. (formerly Hyde Park Acquisition Corp.) was incorporated in August 2006 as a blank check company whose objective was to effect a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition or other similar business combination with an operating business. On October 31, 2008, we acquired Essex Crane Rental Corp., which we refer to as Essex Crane, through the acquisition of substantially all of the ownership interests of Essex Crane’s parent company, Essex Holdings LLC, which we refer to as Holdings. Essex Crane is a leading provider of lattice-boom crawler crane and attachment rental services and possesses one of the largest fleets of such equipment in the United States. We conduct our operations through Essex Crane. As used in this Annual Report, references to “the Company” or “Essex” or to “we,” “us” or “our” refer to Essex Rental Corp., together with its consolidated subsidiaries, Holdings and Essex Crane, unless the context otherwise requires. Item 1. Business Background Essex Rental Corp. was incorporated in Delaware on August 21, 2006 as a blank check company whose objective was to effect a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition or other similar business combination with an operating business. On March 13, 2007, we closed our initial public offering of 11,250,000 units. Each unit that was offered had a price of $8.00 and consisted of one share of our common stock and one warrant. Each warrant entitled the holders to purchase one share of our common stock at a price of $5.00. On March 15, 2007, we consummated the sale of an additional 1,687,500 units which were subject to an over-allotment option granted to EarlyBirdCapital, Inc., the representatives of the underwriters for our initial public offering. We also sold to EarlyBirdCapital, Inc., for $100, as additional compensation an option to purchase up to a total of 600,000 units at $8.80 per unit. Laurence S. Levy, chairman of our board of directors, Edward Levy, a member of our board of directors, and Isaac Kier, one of our stockholders, owned a total of 2,812,500 shares of our common stock prior to our initial public offering. These initial stockholders also purchased a total of 1,500,000 warrants from us for $1.00 per warrant in a private placement completed concurrently with our initial public offering. The total proceeds from our initial public offering (including from our private placement of warrants and exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option) were $105,000,000. Upon the closing of the offering, including the over-allotment option and the private placement of warrants, and after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses, the total net proceeds from the offering were approximately $99,923,651. 1 Business Combination On October 31, 2008, we acquired Essex Crane through the acquisition of substantially all of the membership interests of Holdings for a gross purchase price of $210,000,000 less the amount of Essex Crane’s indebtedness outstanding as of the closing (which was refinanced as of the closing date with a credit facility made available to Essex Crane as of the closing date), the $5,000,000 stated value of the membership interests in Holdings not acquired in the acquisition and the amount of certain other liabilities of Essex Crane as of the closing of the acquisition. The purchase price was subject to adjustment at and after the closing for Essex Crane’s closing date working capital and the dollar amount of crane purchases and sales by Essex Crane as of October 31, 2008. For additional information regarding the gross purchase price paid in the acquisition of Essex Crane, including related transaction expenses, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. The Company funded the net purchase price in the acquisition with proceeds of its initial public offering as well as amounts advanced under a credit facility made available to Essex Crane as of the closing date of the acquisition. In addition, as was required under the Company’s certificate of incorporation, shortly after completion of the acquisition approximately $18,705,000 of the proceeds of the Company’s initial public offering was paid to shareholders who voted against the acquisition of Essex Crane and exercised their conversion rights. The ownership interests in Holdings that were not acquired by the Company in the acquisition were retained by the management members of Holdings, including Ronald Schad, our Chief Executive Officer, and Martin Kroll, our Chief Financial Officer. These retained interests are exchangeable at the option of the holder for an aggregate of 632,911 shares of our common stock. The retained interests do not carry any voting rights and are entitled to distributions from Holdings only if the Company pays a dividend to its stockholders, in which case a distribution on account of the retained interests will be made on an “as exchanged” basis. Holders of the retained interests have agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to sell their retained interests in Holdings or their shares of our common stock issuable upon exchange of such retained interests, before October 31, 2010. We have granted certain registration rights to the holders of retained interests with respect to the shares of our common stock issuable upon exchange of the retained interests. For additional information on our acquisition of Essex Crane and related transactions, see Note 1 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Business Overview We currently conduct substantially all of our operations through Essex Crane. Essex Crane is a leading provider of lattice-boom crawler crane and attachment rental services and possesses one of the largest fleets of such equipment in the United States. Over more than 48 years of operation, Essex Crane has steadily grown from a small, family-owned crane rental company to an industry leader with national capabilities. Essex Crane’s fleet size currently stands at more than 350 crawler cranes and attachments which are made available to clients in any location in the US and Canada. The fleet of crawler cranes and attachments is diverse by lift capacity, allowing Essex Crane to meet the crawler crane and attachment requirements of its engineering and construction firm customer base. Essex Crane primarily rents its crawler cranes and attachments “bare,” meaning without an Essex Crane-supplied operator, and charges its customers for certain transportation costs and repair costs while the equipment is on rent. This business model allows Essex Crane to leverage its concentrated crawler expertise and to minimize headcount and operating costs. Essex Crane’s team of sales, marketing and maintenance professionals, through a network of four main service centers, three smaller service locations and several remote storage yards, serves a variety of customers engaged in construction projects related to power generation, petro-chemical facilities, refineries, water treatment and purification, bridges, highways, hospitals, shipbuilding and commercial construction. Essex Crane has significantly diversified its end-markets in recent years to minimize over-exposure to any one sector of the construction segment. Essex Crane’s end-markets are characterized by large construction projects with longer-lead times. Management believes that these longer lead times, coupled with 6-18 month contracts, provide them better visibility over future project pipelines and revenues. 2 Products and Services Our principal products and services are described below. Equipment Rental. We offer for rent 28 models of crawler crane and attachment rental equipment on a monthly basis. The attachments are rented separately and either increase the lifting capacity or the reach capabilities of the base crawler crane. Crawler cranes are long-lived assets with actual lives of 50 years when properly maintained. The weighted-average age of our fleet was 17 years at December 31, 2008 as compared to 18 years at December 31, 2007. Used Equipment Sales. We routinely sell used rental equipment and invest in new equipment in order to manage the mix, composition and size of our fleet. We also sell used equipment in response to customer demand for this equipment. The rate at which we replace used equipment with new equipment depends on a number of factors, including changing general economic conditions, growth opportunities and the need to adjust fleet mix to meet customer requirement and demand. Transportation Service and Other Revenue. We also offer transportation and repair and maintenance services and sell parts mainly for equipment that is owned by Essex Crane. Our target customers for these types of ancillary services are our current rental customers as well as those who purchase used equipment from us. US Crawler Crane Rental Industry The US crawler crane rental industry is a niche component of the broader equipment rental sector. According to the Rental Equipment Register and the American Rental Association, the US equipment rental sector has grown from a minor industry in 1982 to an industry generating over $30 billion in annual revenues in 2008. Driving this growth has been an increase in crane and attachment penetration rates with engineering and construction firms, the result of a fundamental shift in contractor preferences to rent versus purchase equipment based on the following factors: · a focus on their core construction services businesses rather than equipment ownership; · access to a broader pool of equipment through rental; and · an efficient use of capital as rental equipment has minimal equipment downtime compared to owned equipment, which reduces servicing and storage costs between projects. Within the equipment rental industry, crawler cranes have characteristics that differentiate them from other rental equipment and other cranes. The following table summarizes what our management believes are key differentiators between crawler cranes and the equipment portfolios of other equipment rental companies: 3 Equipment Type Crawler cranes Other cranes (all terrain, rough terrain, tower and truck) Small equipment (e.g., aerial work platforms, backhoes, etc.) Economic life 50 years with proper maintenance due to higher strength steel percentage content 15-30 years due to higher relative machinery percentage content Often 10 years or less Typical Projects Large infrastructure components requiring heavy lifts: bridges, power plants, municipal infrastructure Range from residential condominium to large infrastructure Range from single house builds to large construction projects End markets Primarily large infrastructure and industrial Residential construction to large infrastructure Residential construction to large infrastructure Residual value High Medium Medium to low Within the US crawler crane rental sector operators either provide cranes “bare” or “manned.” Bare rental involves the provision of cranes without an operator, the crane being operated by an employee of the customer. Bare rental is suited to construction firms with adequately trained staff to operate the heavy machinery. Manned rental involves the provision of an operator with the crawler crane and is often suited to end customers unable or unwilling to provide an operator of their own. Manned rental involves the maintenance of adequate staffing levels to ensure equipment can be rented as required. Essex Crane operates a bare rental model. Operations Essex Crane is a national provider of crawler crane and attachment rentals with more than 350 crawler cranes and attachments in it fleet. Revenue is driven through a range of activities including: · crawler crane and attachment rental; · repair and maintenance services; · equipment transportation services; and · used equipment sales. Crawler crane and attachment rental. Essex Crane maintains one of the largest fleets of crawler cranes and attachments in North America. Pro forma rental revenues generated from the rental of cranes and attachments were $61.8 million in 2008 or approximately 72.5% of total pro forma revenue. Equipment is rented to customers under contract, with an average length of nine months (contracts range from 6-18 months in general), which specifies a constant monthly rate for each piece of equipment over the period of the contract. In 2008, Essex Crane’s average monthly crane rental rate was $21,382 and crane utilization was 72.5% on the “days” basis (or 77.0% if calculated using the “hits” method). For a discussion of the “hits” and “days” methods of measuring crane utilization, see “Fleet Overview” below. Once Essex Crane and a potential customer communicate regarding the customer’s need for a bare lattice boom crawler crane rental, Essex Crane confirms that an appropriate crane is available. Essex Crane then prepares and delivers a written rental quote to the customer. The customer reviews the quote and, if acceptable, places an order. 4 Essex Crane’s on-line, real time information system provides visibility of the entire crane rental fleet for the sales team including cranes lease information and expected availability. All sales team quote and order activity is also available on the same information system and viewable by appropriate sales, operations, and management personnel. Upon a review of the order including a check of the customer’s credit and continued crane availability, an order confirmation and a lease are sent to the customer. Once a signed lease and other required documentation (including insurance certificates) are received, the order is authorized for shipment to the customer. Essex Crane’s operations team sees both the quote and order activity and responds appropriately to confirm the readiness of the required crane for shipment to the new rental, but does not begin shipping it until the lease is authorized. Once the crane is delivered to the customer’s site, an Essex Crane representative inspects the crane with the customer and an inspection report is signed verifying that the crane was correctly delivered in accordance with the lease agreement. Rental for the equipment usually begins when the first major item for the crane is shipped to the customer and the rental ends when the last major item of the crane is returned to Essex Crane’s designated location. Repair and maintenance services. Essex Crane’s contracts have provisions that provide for the customer to assume responsibility to maintain the equipment to manufacturer’s specifications throughout the contract period. Essex Crane may provide maintenance and repair services to customers during the contract rental period and will invoice the customer for any work carried out (to the extent such work is the customer’s responsibility). Pro forma revenues from such repair and maintenance services totaled $6.9 million in 2008 or approximately 8.1% of pro forma total revenue. While a piece of equipment is not rented, Essex Crane assumes responsibility to ensure that its equipment is compliant with all the manufacturer’s specifications and other regulations. Equipment transportation services. Essex Crane does not have an in-house fleet of vehicles to transport its cranes and attachments to and from project sites and instead out-sources transportation to third party providers. Essex Crane charges a fee for arranging transportation services from its nearest storage yard with the required equipment to the construction location. In 2008, pro forma transportation revenue was $8.2 million or about 9.6% of pro forma total revenue. Used equipment sales. Given the size of its crane fleet and the various types of crawler cranes, Essex Crane sells pieces of used equipment both domestically and internationally to construction or other rental companies. Sales of equipment are discretionary and based on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, a piece of equipment’s orderly liquidation value, age, rental yield, perceived demand in the marketplace and the impact of a sale on Essex Crane’s rental businesses and cash flow. Fleet Overview Essex Crane’s fleet consists of over 350 lattice boom crawler cranes and attachments manufactured solely by Manitowoc and Liebherr. The fleet has a maximum lifting capacity ranging from 100 to 440 tons and includes a range of different aged equipment. As of December 31, 2008, Essex Crane’s fleet’s average lifting capacity was 230 tons and average age was 17 years (weighted based on orderly liquidation value). Essex Crane owns all of its crawler cranes and attachments and does not lease any of these items from third parties. Essex Crane’s management has employed a strategy of increasing the average lifting capacity of the crawler crane fleet by selling lower capacity models and investing in higher capacity models. This has resulted in average lifting capacity growing from approximately 177 tons in 2003 to approximately 230 tons as of December 31, 2008. Attachments are rented by customers to enhance the lifting capacity and reach of cranes. While Essex Crane’s cranes have lifting capacities of up to 440 tons, its attachments increase the capacity to up to a total of 660 tons. Management has employed this strategy as it believes larger cranes are more applicable to larger construction projects, are less readily substitutable with other equipment, receive above average utilization rates and provide attractive rental rate returns. While this strategy has resulted in a shrinking of the total number of cranes in the fleet since 2003, average rental rate and utilization have grown significantly over the same period. 5 Essex Crane measures equipment utilization using what are referred to as the “hits” method and the “days” method. In the hits method, a piece of equipment on rent for anytime in a month counted as a utilization hit. This meant that if a piece of equipment were on rent for one day in a month it would be treated the same in the utilization statistic as a piece of equipment on rent for the entire month. Our management believes that the “hits” utilization measurement has a less direct correlation with equipment rental revenue. In 2002, Essex Crane implemented a new enterprise resource software application, or ERP System, which fully integrated Essex Crane’s operational and financial data. Upon implementation of the ERP System, Essex Crane began to measure utilization using the method referred to as the “days” method. Our management believes that this method, while it may reflect lower utilization rates than the “hits” method, is the most accurate method for measuring equipment utilization and correlates the most closely with rental revenue. Under this method, a real time report is generated from the ERP system for each piece of equipment on rent in a period. The report includes the number of days each piece of equipment was on rent on a particular lease and the base monthly rental rate. The total number of days on rent of all pieces of equipment provides the numerator for determining utilization. The denominator is all equipment rental assets owned times the number of days in the month. The “days” method is the utilization measurement currently used by Essex Crane, and we anticipate that the “days” method will be the basis for future disclosure of utilization rates for Essex Crane’s cranes and attachments. The following table outlines utilization rates (calculated using the “days” and “hits” methods) and monthly rental rates for the fleet over time: Avg. Monthly Crane Avg. Crane Utilization Rate Avg. Monthly Attachment Avg. Attachment Utilization Rate Year Rental Rate Days Hits Rental Rate Days Hits 2006 $ 13,779 68.9 % 72.6 % $ 8,039 34.9 % 38.9 % 2007 $ 16,266 72.1 % 76.3 % $ 14,243 24.6 % 27.3 % 2008 $ 21,382 72.5 % 77.0 % $ 16,051 42.0 % 44.2 % Lattice boom crawler cranes have long useful economic lives, often up to 50 years or more. This is longer than other types of cranes and equipment in the lifting market space. Our management believes this is due to the relatively high value of the crane’s structural steel (including its boom) as it relates to the total value of the crane. These structural steel items are complex fabrications with high replacement value made from high tensile strength steel. Properly maintained these components retain their value over the life of the crane with minimal ongoing expense. At the conclusion of each rental, the rented equipment is thoroughly inspected in accordance with requirements set by the original equipment manufacturer and OSHA. If maintenance or repairs are required, they are scheduled and completed prior to the next rental. At the start or the next rental, another inspection is made to assure that the equipment is in a rent ready condition and compliant with the inspection requirements. Essex Crane has extensive capabilities to perform major repair and reconditioning of the cranes and attachments. This type of activity is done on an as-needed basis to assure that the equipment provides a high level of availability (uptime) when on rent. Essex Crane maintains a direct relationship with Manitowoc and Liebherr, its two principle crane suppliers. Essex Crane has developed strong long-term relationships with these suppliers. 6 Sales and Marketing Over its operating history, Essex Crane has expanded its infrastructure of service centers and storage yards to key geographical locations across the United States in order to serve customers in a timely and efficient manner. Essex Crane currently operates 14 service centers and storage yards giving it the ability to service customers throughout North America. Essex Crane employs a sales and marketing team of 13 people across the country, each of whom covers a specific geographic region and reports directly to a senior management executive. Rather than segmenting the fleet by geography or salesperson, the fleet is allocated based upon factors such as rental financial return, customer mix and project mix. As such, each salesperson is highly incentivized to optimize the fleet’s financial returns and sales mix. Essex Crane markets itself to potential customers through advertising, promotion, membership in construction trade associations and attendance at various meetings and trade shows. In addition Essex Crane’s web site was designed with the goal of being very useful to engineers and designers who determine how a construction project will be built, as well as equipment and project managers who are responsible for the selection of the cranes that will be used to complete the project. Essex Crane’s management believes that Essex Crane’s web site accomplishes this goal by providing more comprehensive crawler crane information regarding the capacities and specifications than may be readily available from other sources. Essex Crane’s sales team uses its extensive relationships with customers and potential users of large lattice boom crawler cranes to identify potential crane rental opportunities. This, combined with Essex Crane’s reputation and brand value, contributes significantly to its sales activity. In recent years, Essex Crane has enhanced this traditional method of lead generation with two lead-generation sales systems. The lead generation systems used by Essex Crane to collect information regarding construction activity from a variety of public records, including building permits. This information is then electronically sorted and filtered, using Essex Crane’s input to focus on jobs that most likely will require a large lattice boom crawler crane. This output is sent directly to the regional sales manager on the Essex Crane sales team who is responsible for the geographic area in which the project will be built. Essex Crane’s management believes that these methods provide a high degree of market visibility and awareness to Essex Crane’s sales team and management. Essex Crane operates a customized rental information management system through which detailed operational and financial information is made available on a daily basis. The system is also used to maintain a detailed database of publicly announced construction projects on which crawler crane equipment will be required. Management and sales personnel use this information to closely monitor business activity by piece of equipment closely, looking at customer trends and proactively responding to changes in the heavy lift marketplace. Essex Crane believes that its disciplined fleet management process, with its focus on project duration and lead time, as well as customer demand, enables Essex Crane to maximize utilization and rental rates. Customers and end markets Essex Crane serves a variety of customers throughout North America, many of which are large engineering and construction firms focused on large infrastructure and infrastructure-related projects that require significant lifting capacity and high mechanical reliability. Approximately 40% of Essex Crane’s revenues are generated by large public works projects and 35% of revenues are derived from repair and maintenance assignments as opposed to new building. Because of the scale and duration of these projects, contract periods range from 6-18 months and average approximately nine months. This provides us with substantial future revenue visibility and project lead generation times. Essex Crane’s revenue generation model and customer base can be contrasted to other equipment rental companies that provide lighter lifting equipment (such a low capacity cranes or equipment such a scissor lifts) that are commonly rented for shorter periods of time and generally serve residential and smaller commercial construction projects. Essex Crane’s end-markets incorporate construction and repair and maintenance projects in the following key sub-sectors: · industrial /marine – offshore facilities, marine facilities and other industrial facilities; · power – power plants, cogeneration power and wind power; · transportation – bridges, roads and canals; · petrochemicals – offshore platforms, refineries, petrochemical plants and pipelines; · sewer and water – sewers, treatment plants and pumping plants; and · general building - sports arenas, hospitals, commercial and residential. 7 Our management believes that demand for its crawler cranes has increased over the last two years as a result of the growth in spending on infrastructure and other key end-markets in the US during such time. Essex Crane’s 12-month revenue backlog grew from approximately $23.4 million at December 31, 2006 to approximately $33.5 million at December 31, 2007 and is approximately $30.3 million at December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, Essex Crane’s estimated revenue backlog stood at approximately 49% of its pro forma 2008 revenue. During the quarter ended December 31, 2008, Essex Crane’s backlog was impacted by uncertainty in the end markets in which Essex Crane’s customers operate caused by declining economic conditions and available credit. Strategy Our management anticipates that the following longer-term market trends will increase demand for lattice boom crawler cranes and attachments in the future and over longer periods: · Increased levels of infrastructure spending, including the construction of major bridges, airports and water treatment facilities; · Increased demand for electric power will require construction of additional power plants, including potential for nuclear plants; · Continued higher energy costs will increase construction activity to improve and expand efficiencies and capacities at refineries, offshore production suppliers, and petrochemical facilities; · Increased environmental awareness will increase demand for construction of alternative energy sources such as wind power, and clean air requirements including SO2 scrubbers and ash precipitators; · Continued tendency for contractors to rent larger lattice boom crawler cranes rather than own their own equipment; and · Modular construction methods, including pre-fabrication, will continue to increase because of potential cost savings and site efficiencies. Increase market share and pursue profitable growth opportunities. Through its fleet size, geographically dispersed service centers and storage yards, which allow Essex Crane to provide equipment for projects throughout the United States and, to a lesser extent, Canada and Mexico, and track record of customer service, Essex Crane intends to take advantage of these trends in order to maximize the opportunities for profitable growth within the North American crawler crane rental market by: · optimizing fleet allocation across geographic regions, customers and end-markets to maximize utilization and rental rates; · leveraging Essex Crane’s leading fleet size and composition across the country to increase its customer base and share of its existing customer base’s spending in the sector; · continuing to align incentives for local sales people and managers with both profit and growth targets; · pursuing selected acquisitions of other smaller, more regionally focused crawler crane rental fleets or companies complementary to existing operations; · expanding used equipment sales by positioning used cranes for refurbishment and re-sale; and · establishing and maintaining existing relationships with international market players and crane manufacturers for future equipment purchase and sale opportunities. Further drive profitability, cash flow and return on capital. Our management believes there are significant opportunities to further increase the profitability of Essex Crane’s operations by: 8 · continuing to re-position the fleet by selling older, lighter tonnage cranes and purchasing newer, heavier lifting cranes that command higher margins and are in greater demand due to their ability to service large infrastructure-related projects; · actively managing the quality, reliability and availability of Essex Crane’s fleet and offering superior customer service in order to support a competitive pricing strategy; · evaluating each new potential rental contract opportunity based on strict return guidelines and allocating its fleet accordingly; · using Essex Crane’s size and national market presence to achieve economies of scale in capital investment; and · leveraging Essex Crane’s extensive customer relationships and success in selling used equipment. Competition The heavy lift equipment rental industry is highly fragmented throughout North America, with a variety of smaller companies, many of which are family-owned, operating on a regional or local scale. Companies that have a national focus generally provide heavy lift rental services across a spectrum of crane types such as all-terrain, truck and tower cranes as well as crawlers. Essex Crane is the only national crane rental services company that focuses exclusively on lattice-boom crawler cranes and attachments. Its fleet of over 350 cranes and attachments is one of the largest crawler crane fleets in North America. Essex Crane’s principal competitors include ALL Erection & Crane Rental, Lampson International, Maxim Crane Works, M.D. Moody & Sons and AmQuip Crane Corp. Some of these competitors operate nationally and others are regional. Most of our competitors do not focus exclusively on the North American crawler crane market. We believe that there are four key factors differentiating Essex Crane from its competitors: · crawler crane focus – Essex Crane is solely focused on heavy lift crawler cranes dedicated to infrastructure and other large construction projects. Other companies also focus on other crane types with lower lift capacities; · national capabilities – some competitors offer national service capabilities, however most are regional players. Our management believes that a national presence provides the ability to fully service engineering and construction firms with a similar national footprint; · “bare” rental – Essex Crane does not rent its equipment with an operator. While some other operators also rent equipment bare, generally equipment is rented with an operator; and · outsourced transport – unlike many of its competitors, Essex Crane does not operate an in-house transport department. In management’s view, this allows Essex Crane to focus on core competencies and removes the need for capital investment in truck fleets and associated infrastructure. Competition in the heavy lift equipment rental segment is intense and is defined by equipment availability, reliability, service and price. Our management believes that Essex Crane’s extensive crawler crane and attachment fleet, national presence and sales force, client relationships and equipment allocation and management systems provide Essex Crane with a good scale and competitive positioning within the industry relative to its peers. Risk of Loss and Insurance The operation of lattice boom crawler cranes includes risks such as a mechanical and structural failures, physical damage, property damage, operator overload or error, equipment loss, or business interruptions. Essex Crane primarily rents its cranes and attachment on a “bare” lease and seldom supplies the operator or performs the routine scheduled maintenance on the equipment. Essex Crane requires the lessee to supply a primary insurance policy covering the loss of the equipment and general liability for claims initiated by an accident, storm, fire or theft. Essex Crane also requires that it be named as an additional insured and the loss payee on the lessee’s insurance policy. Essex Crane’s lease agreement also requires the lessee to indemnify Essex Crane for any injury, damage and business interruption caused by the crane or the attachment while it is being leased. Essex Crane maintains secondary insurance coverage for any claim not covered by the lessee’s insurance, however, Essex Crane cannot guarantee that its insurance or the insurance of its customers will cover all claims or risks or that any specific claim will be paid by an insurer. 9 Government Regulation Federal, state and local authorities subject Essex Crane’s facilities and operations to requirements relating to environmental protection, occupational safety and health and many other subjects. These requirements, which can be expected to change and expand in the future, impose significant capital and operating costs on Essex Crane’s business. The environmental laws and regulations govern, among other things, the discharge of substances into the air, water and land, the handling, storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of properties affected by pollutants. Environmental laws also impose obligations and liability for the investigation and cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substance spills or releases. Essex Crane can be subject to liability for the disposal of substances which it generates and for substances disposed of on property which it owns or operates, even if such disposal occurred before its ownership or occupancy. Accordingly, Essex Crane may become liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for investigation, remediation and monitoring costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by Essex Crane, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to our ownership or operation of the property. In addition, because environmental laws frequently impose joint and several liability on all responsible parties, Essex Crane may be held liable for more than its proportionate share of environmental investigation and cleanup costs. Contamination and exposure to hazardous substances can also result in claims for damages, including personal injury, property damage, and natural resources damage claims. Some of Essex Crane’s properties contain, or previously contained, above-ground or underground storage tanks and/or oil-water separators. Given the nature of Essex Crane’s operations (which involve the use and disposal of petroleum products, solvents and other hazardous substances for fueling and maintaining its cranes, attachments and vehicles) and the historical operations at some of its properties, Essex Crane may incur material costs associated with soil or groundwater contamination. Under environmental and safety laws, Essex Crane may be liable for, among other things, (i) the costs of investigating and remediating contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we sent hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment regardless of fault and (ii) fines and penalties for non-compliance. We incur ongoing expenses associated with the performance of appropriate investigation and remediation activities at certain of our locations. Essex Crane’s operations are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to occupational safety and health, most notably standards promulgated by OSHA. Essex Crane is subject to various OSHA regulations that primarily deal with maintaining a safe work-place environment. OSHA regulations require Essex Crane, among other things, to maintain documentation of work-related injuries, illnesses and fatalities and files for recordable events, complete workers compensation loss reports and review the status of outstanding worker compensation claims, and complete certain annual filings and postings. Essex Crane may be involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and investigation with these governmental agencies, including inspections and audits by the applicable agencies related to its compliance with these requirements. Customers Our customer base is highly diversified and ranges from Fortune 500 companies to small businesses and homeowners. Our largest customer accounted for less than 10 percent of our revenues in 2008 and our top 5 customers accounted for less than 16% percent of our revenues in 2008. Historically, we have typically retained over 60% percent of our customer base year-over-year while adding new customers as we grow our revenues. 10 Our customer base varies by branch and is determined by several factors, including the equipment mix and marketing focus of the particular branch as well as the business composition of the local economy. Our customers include: • construction companies that use equipment for constructing and renovating commercial buildings, warehouses, industrial and manufacturing plants, office parks, airports, residential developments and other facilities; • industrial companies—such as manufacturers, refineries, chemical companies, paper mills, railroads, ship builders, off-shore fabricators and utilities, including wind farms—that use equipment for plant maintenance, upgrades, expansion and construction; • municipalities that require equipment for a variety of purposes; and • repair and maintenance to major renovation projects for owners of commercial and industrial facilities, such as power companies. Our business is somewhat seasonal, with demand for our rental equipment tending to be lower in the winter months. Suppliers Our strategic approach with respect to our suppliers is to maintain the minimum number of suppliers per category of equipment that can satisfy our anticipated volume and business requirements. This approach is designed to ensure the terms we negotiate are competitive and that there is sufficient product available to meet anticipated customer demand. We utilize a comprehensive selection process to determine our equipment vendors. We consider product capabilities and industry position, product liability history and financial strength. We have been making ongoing efforts to consolidate our vendor base in order to further increase our purchasing power. We estimate that our largest supplier accounted for approximately 24.6% of our 2008 total purchases, including equipment for rental, and that our 2 largest suppliers accounted for approximately 43.3% of such purchases. We believe we have sufficient alternative sources of supply available for each of our equipment. Seasonality Although our business is not significantly impacted by seasonality, the demand for our rental equipment tends to be lower in the winter months. The level of equipment rental activities are directly related to commercial and industrial construction and maintenance activities. Therefore, equipment rental performance will be correlated to the levels of current construction activities. The severity of weather conditions can have a temporary impact on the level of construction activities. Employees As of December 31, 2008 Essex Crane had 128 employees, four of which are senior management, 16 of which are other corporate office staff, nine of which are operational key management and 11 of which are employed in the sales and marketing team. Approximately seven of Essex Crane’s staff are affiliated with trade unions. Essex Crane has not experienced in the last 10 years any work stoppage as a result of issues with labor or with unions and believes that its relationship with its employees is good. There is not currently a campaign by any union to organize additional employees of Essex Crane. Availability of Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business may be adversely affected by changing economic conditions beyond our control, including decreases in construction or industrial activities. The heavy crane rental industry’s revenues are closely tied to conditions in the end markets in which Essex Crane’s customers operate and more broadly to general economic conditions. Essex Crane’s products are used primarily in infrastructure-related projects and other non-residential construction projects in a variety of industries (including the power, transportation infrastructure, petrochemical, municipal construction and industrial and marine industries). Consequently, the economic downturn, and particularly the weakness in Essex Crane’s end markets may lead to a significant decrease in demand for its equipment or depress equipment rental and utilization rates and the sales prices for equipment we sell. During periods of expansion in Essex Crane’s end markets, Essex Crane generally has benefited from increased demand for its products. Conversely, during recessionary periods in its end markets, Essex Crane has been adversely affected by reduced demand for its products. Weakness in Essex Crane’s end markets, such as a decline in non-residential construction, infrastructure projects or industrial activity, may in the future lead to a decrease in the demand for Essex Crane’s equipment or the rental rates or prices it can charge. Factors that may cause weakness in Essex Crane’s end markets include but are not limited to: 11 · slowdowns in non-residential construction in the geographic regions in which Essex Crane operates; · reductions in corporate spending for plants, factories and other facilities; and · reductions in government spending on highways and other infrastructure projects. Future declines in non-residential construction, infrastructure projects and industrial activity could adversely affect Essex Crane’s operating results by decreasing its revenues and profit margins. Continued weakness or further deterioration in the non-residential construction and industrial sectors caused by these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the future and may also have a material adverse effect on residual values realized on the disposition of our rental fleet. Declines in Essex Crane’s order backlog should be considered as an indication of a decline in the strength of the non-residential construction markets. The current worldwide economic downturn may have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The current worldwide economic downturn — which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide and concerns that the worldwide economy may enter into a prolonged recessionary period — make it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could reduce the utilization rate of our fleet. Alternatively, this forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of equipment available for rental that could result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products and a loss of market share. Fluctuations in the stock market, as well as general economic and market conditions, may impact the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to general economic changes and other factors including, but not limited to: · variations in our quarterly operating results or results that vary from investor expectations; · changes in the strategy and actions taken by our competitors, including pricing changes; · securities analysts’ elections to not to cover our common stock, or, if analysts do elect to cover our common stock, changes in financial estimates by analysts, or a downgrade of our common stock or of our sector by analysts; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · loss of a large supplier; · investor perceptions of us and the equipment rental and distribution industry; 12 · our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and consolidations; and · national or regional catastrophes or circumstances and natural disasters, hostilities and acts of terrorism. Broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, including to those listed above and others, may harm the market price of our common stock. We are dependent upon key personnel whose loss may adversely impact Essex Crane’s business and our results of operations. We depend on the expertise, experience and continued services of Essex Crane’s senior management employees, especially Ronald Schad, Essex Crane’s and the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Martin Kroll, Essex Crane’s and the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and Essex Crane’s Senior Vice President, William Erwin, Essex’s Vice President Operations and Customer Support and William O’Rourke, Essex Crane’s Vice President Sales and Account Management. Mr. Schad has acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Essex Crane and its operations and most decisions concerning the business of Essex Crane will be made or significantly influenced by him. The loss of Mr. Schad, Mr. Kroll, Mr. Erwin or Mr. O’Rourke or other senior management employees, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. We seek to compensate and incentivize our key executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries and bonus plans, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key employees or hire new key employees. As a result, if Messrs. Schad, Kroll, Erwin, and/or O’Rourke were to leave Essex Crane, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successors obtain the necessary training and experience. In connection with the acquisition, we entered into three-year employment agreements with each of Messrs. Schad, Kroll, Erwin and O’Rourke. However, there can be no assurance that the terms of these employment agreements will be sufficient to retain Messrs. Schad, Kroll, Erwin and/or O’Rourke. Essex Crane’s dependence on a small number of crane manufacturers poses a significant risk to our business and prospects. Essex Crane’s crane fleet has historically been comprised of only Manitowoc and Liebherr crawler cranes. Given Essex Crane’s reliance on two manufacturers for its entire fleet of crawler cranes, and limited alternative sources of crawler cranes, if either of these manufacturers were unable to meet expected manufacturing timeframes due to, for example, natural disasters or labor strikes, Essex Crane may experience a significant increase in lead times to acquire new equipment or may be unable to acquire such equipment at all. Any inability to acquire the model types or quantities of new equipment on a timely basis to replace older, less utilized equipment would adversely impact our future financial condition or results of operations. In addition, Essex Crane has developed strong relationships with Manitowoc and Liebherr. There can be no assurance that Essex Crane will be able to maintain its relationships with these suppliers. Termination of Essex Crane’s relationship with these suppliers could materially and adversely effect our business, financial condition or results of operations if such termination resulted in Essex Crane being unable to obtain adequate rental and sales equipment from other sources in a timely manner or at all. The cost of new equipment Essex Crane uses in its rental fleet is increasing, which may cause Essex Crane to spend significantly more for replacement equipment, and in some cases we may not be able to procure equipment at all due to supplier constraints. Essex Crane’s business model is capital intensive and requires significant continual investment in new cranes to meet customer demand. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be significantly impacted by a material change in the pricing of new cranes acquired by Essex Crane. Such changes may be driven by a number of factors which include, but are not limited to: 13 · steel prices – due to the high tensile steel component of the cranes, significant changes in the price of steel can materially change the cost of acquiring a crane; · global demand – the market for crawler cranes is global and significant growth in overseas demand for cranes could materially increase the cost of new cranes regardless of US economic conditions; · US economy – overall inflationary conditions in the US may impact the operating costs of one of Essex Crane’s key crane suppliers and therefore impact crane pricing for customers such as Essex Crane; and · currency fluctuations – as one of Essex Crane’s principal suppliers is based in Europe, devaluation of the US dollar (as compared to the Euro) may materially increase the cost of acquiring cranes and attachments; conversely, inflation of the value of the US dollar may adversely affect Essex Crane’s revenues from international sales of used cranes and attachments. While Essex Crane can manage the size and aging of its fleet generally over time, eventually it must replace older equipment in its fleet with newer models. We would be adversely impacted if Essex Crane were unable to procure crawler cranes to allow it to replace our older and smaller capacity crawler cranes over time as anticipated. If we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing equipment and to acquiring new rental locations. Our ability to compete, sustain our growth and expand our operations through new locations largely depends on access to capital. If the cash we generate from Essex Crane’s business, together with cash on hand and cash that we may borrow under Essex Crane’s new credit facility is not sufficient to implement our growth strategy and meet our capital needs, we will require additional financing. However, we may not succeed in obtaining additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing is restricted by Essex’s new credit facility, which became effective upon the closing of our acquisition of Essex. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing cranes and attachments and to new service locations or storage yards. Furthermore, any additional indebtedness that we do incur may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit their ability to withstand competitive pressures. If we are successful in our efforts to expand our operations, through new locations, acquisitions or additional equipment such expansion may result in risks and costs associated with business start-up and integration. The opening of new service locations or storage yards or the completion of any future acquisitions of other equipment rental companies may result in significant start-up or transaction expenses and risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience. New service locations and storage yards require significant up-front capital expenditures and may require a significant investment of our management’s time to successfully commence operations. New locations may also require a significant amount of time to provide an adequate return on capital invested, if any. In addition, in the event that Essex Crane were to acquire different types of cranes and attachments than those it currently rents, or different classes of rental equipment, there can be no assurance that our customers would choose to rent such items from us or would do so at such rates or on such terms, that would be acceptable to us. 14 Our ability to realize the expected benefits from any future acquisitions of other equipment rental companies depends in large part on our ability to integrate and consolidate the new operations with our existing operations in a timely and effective manner. In addition, we may fail or be unable to discover certain liabilities of any acquired business, including liabilities relating to noncompliance with environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Any significant diversion of management’s attention from our existing operations, the loss of key employees or customers of any acquired business, or any major difficulties encountered in opening new locations or integrating new operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The crane rental industry is competitive. The crane rental industry is highly fragmented and is served by companies who focus almost exclusively on crane and lifting equipment rental. Essex Crane competes directly with regional, and local crane rental companies and a limited number of national crane rental companies (including ALL Erection & Crane, Lampson International and Maxim Crane Works). There can be no assurance that Essex Crane will not encounter increased competition from existing competitors or new market entrants (including a newly-formed competitor created by consolidating several existing regional competitors) that may be significantly larger and have greater financial and marketing resources. Our management believes that rental rates, fleet availability and size and quality are the primary competitive factors in the crane rental industry. From time to time, Essex Crane or its competitors may attempt to compete aggressively by lowering rental rates or prices or offering more favorable rental terms. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by decreasing Essex Crane’s market share or depressing the rental rates. To the extent Essex Crane lowers rental rates offers different rental terms or increases its fleet in order to retain or increase market share, Essex Crane’s operating margins would be adversely impacted. Our status as a public company may be a competitive disadvantage. We are and will continue to be subject to the disclosure and reporting requirements of applicable US securities laws and, if our securities are listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market or another national exchange, will be subject to the NASDAQ or such other exchange’s rules. Many of Essex Crane’s principal competitors are not subject to these disclosure and reporting requirements or the NASDAQ or such other exchange rules. As a result, we may be required to disclose certain information and expend funds on disclosure and financial and other controls that may put Essex Crane at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. Essex Crane may encounter substantial competition in its efforts to expand its operations. An element of Essex Crane’s growth strategy is to continue to expand by opening new service centers and equipment storage yards. The success of Essex Crane’s growth strategy depends in part on identifying sites for new locations at attractive prices. Zoning restrictions may in the future prevent Essex Crane from being able to open new service centers or storage yards at sites it has identified. We may also encounter substantial competition in our efforts to acquire other crane rental companies, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities and lead to higher acquisition costs. Our internal controls over financial reporting may be deficient in certain respects and require remedial measures in order to ensure our ability to comply with financial reporting laws and regulations and to publish accurate financial statements. Our internal controls over financial reporting may be deficient in certain respects and such deficiencies could adversely affect our ability to record, process, and summarize and report financial data consistent with the assertions of management in the financial statements. Any failure to effectively address any such deficiency could disrupt our ability to process key components of our result of operations and financial condition timely and accurately and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations under rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 15 The crane rental industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by Essex Crane’s insurance. Essex Crane may not be adequately insured against all risks and there can be no assurance that its insurers will pay a particular claim. Even if its insurance coverage is adequate to cover its losses, Essex Crane may not be able to timely obtain a replacement crane in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, Essex Crane may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for its fleet. Essex Crane’s insurance policies will also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although management believes are standard in the heavy lift crane rental industry, may nevertheless increase its costs. Moreover, certain accidents or other occurrences may result in intangible damages (such as damages to reputation) for which insurance may not provide an adequate remedy. Essex Crane may not be able to renew its insurance coverage on terms favorable to it that could lead to increased costs in the event of future claims. When Essex Crane’s current insurance policies expire, it may be unable to renew such coverage upon terms acceptable to it, if at all. If Essex Crane is able to renew Essex Crane’s coverage it expects that the premium rates and deductibles may increase as a result of general rate increases for this type of insurance as well as its historical claims experience and that of Essex Crane’s competitors in the industry. If we cannot obtain insurance coverage, it could adversely affect Essex Crane’s business by increasing its costs with respect to any claims. Additionally, existing or future claims may exceed the level of Essex Crane’s present insurance, and its insurance may not continue to be available on economically reasonable or desirable terms, if at all. Essex Crane may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet its debt service obligations. Essex Crane’s ability to make payments on its indebtedness will depend on its ability to generate cash from its future operations. As of December 31, 2008, Essex Crane has a revolving credit facility which provides for an aggregate debt facility of $190 million of which $137 million is outstanding. This facility is secured by a first priority lien on all of Essex Crane’s assets and, in the event of default, the lenders generally would be entitled to seize the collateral. In the event of a prolonged economic downturn, Essex Crane’s business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or from other sources sufficient to enable it to repay its indebtedness and to fund its other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements and may not be able to refinance any of its indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If Essex Crane cannot service or refinance its indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as asset divestitures, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, Essex Crane may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In the event we incur further debt obligations in relation to acquisitions, or for any other purpose, the exposure to the risks outlined above will increase accordingly. Essex Crane’s loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that will limit Essex Crane’s corporate activities. Essex Crane’s loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions that will limit Essex Crane’s ability to: · create additional liens on their assets; · make investments and capital expenditures above a certain threshold; · incur additional indebtedness; · engage in mergers or acquisitions; · pay dividends or redeem outstanding capital stock; · sell any of Essex Crane’s cranes or any other assets outside the ordinary course of business; and · change its business. 16 Essex Crane will need to seek permission from its lender in order for Essex Crane to engage in some corporate actions. Essex Crane’s lender’s interests may be different from those of Essex Crane, and no assurance can be given that Essex Crane will be able to obtain its lender’s permission when needed. This may prevent Essex Crane from taking certain actions that are in its best interest. Essex Crane is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may result in its incurring unanticipated liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on its operating performance. Federal, state and local authorities subject Essex Crane’s facilities and operations to requirements relating to environmental protection. These requirements can be expected to change and expand in the future, and may impose significant capital and operating costs on Essex Crane’s business. Environmental laws and regulations govern, among other things, the discharge of substances into the air, water and land, the handling, storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of properties affected by pollutants. If Essex Crane violates environmental laws or regulations, it may be required to implement corrective actions and could be subject to civil or criminal fines or penalties. There can be no assurance that Essex Crane will not have to make significant capital expenditures in the future in order to remain in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or that Essex Crane will comply with applicable environmental laws at all times. Such violations or liability could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws also impose obligations and liability for the investigation and cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substance spills or releases. Essex Crane can be subject to liability for the disposal of substances which it generates and for substances disposed of on property which it owns or operates, even if such disposal occurred before its ownership or occupancy. Accordingly, Essex Crane may become liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for investigation, remediation and monitoring costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by Essex Crane, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to Essex Crane’s ownership or operation of the property. In addition, because environmental laws frequently impose joint and several liability on all responsible parties, Essex Crane may be held liable for more than its proportionate share of environmental investigation and cleanup costs. Contamination and exposure to hazardous substances can also result in claims for damages, including personal injury, property damage, and natural resources damage claims. Some of Essex Crane’s properties contain, or previously contained, above-ground or underground storage tanks and/or oil-water separators. Given the nature of Essex Crane’s operations (which involve the use and disposal of petroleum products, solvents and other hazardous substances for fueling and maintaining its cranes, attachments and vehicles) and the historical operations at some of its properties, Essex Crane may incur material costs associated with soil or groundwater contamination. Future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to remediation liabilities or other claims that may be material. Environmental requirements may become stricter or be interpreted and applied more strictly in the future. In addition, Essex Crane may be required to indemnify other parties for adverse environmental conditions that are now unknown to us. These future changes or interpretations, or the indemnification for such adverse environmental conditions, could result in environmental compliance or remediation costs not anticipated by us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Essex Crane is subject to numerous occupational health and safety laws and regulations that may result in its incurring unanticipated liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on its operating performance. Essex Crane’s operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to occupational safety and health, most notably standards promulgated by the Occupational, Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA. Essex Crane is subject to various OSHA regulations that primarily deal with maintaining a safe work-place environment. OSHA regulations require Essex Crane, among other things, to maintain documentation of work-related injuries, illnesses and fatalities and files for recordable events, complete workers compensation loss reports and review the status of outstanding worker compensation claims, and complete certain annual filings and postings. Essex Crane may be involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and investigation with these governmental agencies, including inspections and audits by the applicable agencies related to its compliance with these requirements. 17 To date, Essex Crane’s compliance with these and other applicable safety regulations has not had a material effect on its, Holdings’ or our results of operations or financial condition. Essex Crane’s failure, however, to comply with these and other applicable requirements in the future could result in fines and penalties to Essex Crane and require it to undertake certain remedial actions or be subject to a suspension of its business, which, if significant, could materially adversely effect our business or results of operations. Moreover, Essex Crane’s mere involvement in any audits and investigations or other proceedings could result in substantial financial cost to us and divert our management’s attention. Several recent highly-publicized accidents involving cranes (none of which involved cranes or attachments provided by Essex Crane) could result in more stringent enforcement of work-place safety regulations, especially with respect to companies which rent older cranes and attachments. Additionally, future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, new laws or regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to Essex Crane, may give rise to additional compliance or remedial costs that could be material. Safety requirements may become stricter or be interpreted and applied more strictly in the future. These future changes or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There are a substantial number of shares of our common stock available for resale in the future that may cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In connection with our acquisition of Essex Crane, Holdings issued its Class A Membership Interests to members of Essex Crane’s senior management. Such membership interests may be exchanged for up to an aggregate of 632,911 shares of our common stock, subject to certain adjustments. We have granted registration rights to Essex Crane’s senior management with respect to the shares of our common stock issuable upon exchange of the retained interests, which entitle Essex Crane’s senior management to file a registration statement with respect to such shares under certain circumstances, including upon demand after the October 31, 2010. We also expect to file a registration statement with respect to the 1,272,500 shares of our common stock held by Kirtland Capital Company III LLC and Kirtland Capital Partners III LP following the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market or another national securities exchange. In addition, warrants to purchase an aggregate of 15,037,500 shares of our common stock issued to our initial stockholders, purchasers in our initial public offering and EarlyBirdCapital, Inc. became exercisable upon the closing of the acquisition of Essex Crane. All of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants will be available for resale upon exercise. Lastly, 2,812,500 shares of our common stock purchased by our initial stockholders prior to our initial public offering will be released from escrow on October 31, 2009, or earlier if we engage in a transaction resulting in our stockholders having the right to exchange their shares for cash or other securities, and will be eligible for resale in the public market subject to compliance with applicable law. Our initial stockholders are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their shares of common stock at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, upon exchange of the retained interests for our common stock or exercise of warrants to purchase our common stock, the equity interests of our stockholders, as a percentage of the total number of the outstanding shares of common stock, and the net book value of the shares of our common stock will be significantly diluted. If we are unable to receive a listing of our securities on NASDAQ or another national securities exchange, then it may be more difficult for our stockholders to sell their securities. Shares of our common stock, warrants and units are currently traded in the over-the-counter market and quoted on the OTCBB. We applied to have our common stock, warrants and units included on The NASDAQ Capital Market. There can be no assurance that the listing of our common stock, warrants or units on the NASDAQ Capital Market will be obtained. If we are unable to receive a listing or approval of trading of our securities on NASDAQ or another national securities exchange, then it may be more difficult for its stockholders to sell their securities. 18 We may issue shares of our common stock and preferred stock to raise additional capital, including to complete a future business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 40,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. We currently have 11,171,333 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants, employee stock options and unit purchase options, and the number of shares issuable upon exchange of the retained interests) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we currently have no other commitments to issue any additional shares of our common or preferred stock, we may in the future determine to issue additional shares of our common or preferred stock to raise additional capital for a variety of purposes, including to complete a future acquisition. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock may significantly reduce the equity interest of stockholders and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 