Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are important risks and uncertainties we have identified that could materially affect our future results. You should consider them carefully when evaluating forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and otherwise made by us or on our behalf because these contingencies could cause actual results and circumstances to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The Company’s actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. If any of those contingencies actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Loan Portfolio and Lending Activities We may not recover all amounts contractually owed to us by our borrowers resulting in charge-offs, impairments and non-accruals, which may exceed our allowance for credit losses and could negatively impact our financial results and our ability to secure additional funding. We charged off $19.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2008, and expect to have additional credit losses in the future through the normal course of our lending operations. If we were to experience a material increase in credit losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses in the future, however, our assets, net income and operating results would be adversely impacted, which could also lead to challenges in securing additional financing. As of December 31, 2008, we reported delinquencies of $16.6 million and had twelve loans with an aggregate outstanding balance of $112.8 million classified as impaired. Of these impaired loans, six loans with an aggregate outstanding balance of $60.6 million at December 31, 2008 were also on non-accrual status. Like other commercial lenders, we experience delinquencies, impairments and non-accruals, which may indicate that our risk of credit loss for a particular loan has materially increased. When a loan is over 90 days past due or if management believes there is reasonable doubt as to our ability to collect principal and interest contractually owed to us, it is our policy to place the loan on non-accrual status. When a loan is placed on non-accrual status, we also make a determination as to whether the loan is impaired. A loan is considered impaired when management believes there is reasonable doubt about our ability to collect all amounts due to us according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Non-accrual loans are also likely to be considered impaired if the value of any guaranties or collateral securing the loan is less than the loan amount. In certain circumstances, a loan can be classified as impaired, but continue to be performing as a result of a troubled debt restructuring. As of December 31, 2008, we had an allowance for credit losses of $54.0 million, including specific reserves of $15.7 million. The allowance for credit losses does not include a reserve for impairments on our debt products. Management periodically reviews the appropriateness of our allowance for credit losses. However, the limited history of our loans makes it difficult to judge the expected credit performance of our loans. Our estimates and judgments with respect to the appropriateness of our allowance for credit losses may not be accurate, and the assumptions we use to make such estimates and judgments may be inaccurate. Our allowance may not be adequate to cover credit or other losses related to our loans as a result of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. If we were to experience material credit losses related to our loans, such losses could adversely impact our ability to fund future loans and our business and, to the extent losses exceed our allowance for credit losses, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We may experience impairments on our other debt products that could adversely impact our net income and assets and harm our results of operations. We have reported impairments in the past and, in the future, may experience additional impairments on our debt investments. We review the fair value of our other debt products quarterly. The fair value of our investments in debt products are based on independent third-party quoted market prices, when available, at the reporting date for 11 Table of Contents those or similar investments. When no market is available, we estimate fair value using various valuation methodologies, including cash flow analysis and internally-generated financial models that incorporate significant assumptions and judgments, as well as qualitative factors. Even if the general accuracy of our valuation models is validated, there are no assurances that our valuations are accurate because of the high number of variables that affect cash flows associated with these complex cash flow structures, which differ on each securitization. Valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships that drive the results of the model. Because of the inherent uncertainty of determining the fair value of investments that do not have a readily ascertainable market value, the fair value of investments may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a market existed for the investments, and the differences could be material. In addition, if our estimates or assumptions with respect to these assets prove to be incorrect, we may be required to write down some or all of the value of these assets. A debt product is considered impaired when the fair value of the debt product declines below its amortized cost. The cost basis of the investment is then written down to fair value. If management determines the impairment to be temporary, it is recorded in other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders’ equity. If management determines the impairment to be permanent, it is recorded as an offset to other income on our statements of operations. From time to time we may become aware of cash flow or credit issues with respect to our other debt products and these other debt products are then monitored by management to determine if a write-down is appropriate. Although we view write-downs of our other debt products as a normal and anticipated aspect of our business, material write-downs of the fair value of our other debt products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, we had two debt products that were deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. During 2008, we recorded impairment charges, or write-downs, in other income of $0.9 million. Our allowance for credit losses does not cover these write-downs as we classify these assets as available-for-sale and are accounted for under the guidelines of FAS No. 115 and EITF 99-20. The recent disruptions in the global financial markets may increase the number of charge-offs, impairments and non-accruals in our loan portfolio, which may exceed our allowance for credit losses and could negatively impact our financial results. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the deteriorating economic and business conditions in the markets in which we operate. Delinquencies, non-accruals and credit losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. Our Middle Market Corporate group primarily consists of loans to small and medium-sized businesses that may be particularly susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to make scheduled payments of interest or principal on their borrowings during these periods. In our Commercial Real Estate group, economic slowdowns or recessions could increase potential payment defaults on the underlying commercial real estate. Therefore, to the extent that economic and business conditions continue to deteriorate as they have during recent periods, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our loan portfolio is likely to decrease. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of the collateral, particularly real estate, securing some of our loans or other debt products. Further or prolonged economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our loan portfolio and a decrease in our net interest income, net income and book value. Slowing economic activity continues to contribute to a decline in overall credit quality. We are closely monitoring the credit quality of our loans, but we expect loan delinquencies, non-accruals, impairments and charge-offs in our loan portfolio to increase as the economy continues to weaken. A prolonged economic downturn could lead to loan delinquencies, non-accruals, impairments and charge-offs in our loan portfolio exceeding our allowance for credit losses, which could negatively impact our financial results. 12 Table of Contents Unfavorable economic conditions may also make it more difficult for us to maintain both our new origination volume, the credit quality of new business at levels previously attained and the amounts we are able to recover from borrowers who are unable to fulfill their repayment obligations. These events could negatively impact our results of operations. We make loans primarily to privately-owned, small and medium-sized companies that may carry more inherent risk and present an increased potential for loss than loans to larger companies. Our loan portfolio consists primarily of loans to small and medium-sized, privately-owned companies, many of which do not publicly report their financial condition. Compared to larger, publicly-traded firms, loans to these types of companies may carry more inherent risk. The companies that we lend to generally have more limited access to capital and higher funding costs, may be in a weaker financial position, may need more capital to expand or compete, and may be unable to obtain financing from public capital markets or from traditional sources, such as commercial banks. Accordingly, loans made to these types of customers involve higher risks than loans made to companies that have larger businesses, greater financial resources or are otherwise able to access traditional credit sources. Numerous factors may make these types of companies more vulnerable to variations in results of operations, changes impacting their industry and changes in general market conditions. Companies in this market segment also face intense competition, including from companies with greater financial, technical, managerial and marketing resources. Any of these factors could impair a customer’s cash flow or result in other adverse events, such as bankruptcy, which could limit a customer’s ability to make scheduled payments on our loans, and may lead to losses in our loan portfolio and a decrease in our net interest income, net income and book value. Additionally, because most of our customers do not publicly report their financial condition, we are more susceptible to a customer’s fraud, which could cause us to suffer losses on our loan portfolio. The failure of a customer to accurately report its financial position, compliance with loan covenants or eligibility for additional borrowings could result in our providing loans or other debt products that do not meet our underwriting criteria, defaults in loan payments, the loss of some or all of the principal of a particular loan or loans, including, in the case of revolving loans, amounts we may not have advanced had we possessed complete and accurate information. Our concentration of loans and other debt products within a particular industry or region could impair our financial condition or results of operations if that industry or region were to experience adverse changes to economic or business conditions. We specialize in certain broad industry segments, such as commercial real estate and healthcare in which our bankers have experience and strong networks of proprietary deal sources and our credit personnel have significant expertise. As a result, our portfolio currently has and may develop other concentrations of risk exposure related to those industry segments. If industry segments in which we have a concentration of investments experience adverse economic or business conditions, our delinquencies, default rate and loan charge-offs in those segments may increase, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our balloon and bullet transactions may involve a greater degree of risk than other types of loans. As of December 31, 2008, balloon and bullet transactions represented 78% of the outstanding balance of our loan portfolio, and most of our revolving loans and some of our term loans and other debt products are bullet transactions. Balloon and bullet loans involve a greater degree of risk than other types of transactions because they are structured to allow for either small (balloon) or no (bullet) principal payments over the term of the loan, requiring the borrower to make a large final payment upon the maturity of the loan. The ability of our customers to make this final payment upon the maturity of the loan typically depends upon their ability either to refinance the loan prior to maturity or to generate sufficient cash flow to repay the loan at maturity. The ability of a customer to accomplish any of these goals will be affected by many factors, including the availability of 13 Table of Contents financing at acceptable rates to the customer, the financial condition of the customer, the marketability of the related collateral, the operating history of the related business, tax laws and the prevailing general economic conditions. Consequently, the customer may not have the ability to repay the loan at maturity, and we could lose all or most of the principal of our loan. Given their relative size and limited resources and access to capital, our small and mid-sized customers may have difficulty in repaying or financing their balloon and bullet loans on a timely basis or at all. Our cash flow transactions are not fully covered by the value of tangible assets or collateral of the customer and, consequently, if any of these transactions become non-performing, we could suffer a loss of some or all of our value in the assets. Cash flow lending involves lending money to a customer based primarily on the expected cash flow, profitability and enterprise value of a customer, with the value of any tangible assets as secondary protection. In some cases, these loans may have more leverage than traditional bank debt. As of December 31, 2008, cash flow transactions comprised $1.9 billion, or 78.5%, of the outstanding balance of our loan portfolio. In the case of our senior cash flow loans, we generally take a lien on substantially all of a customer’s assets, but the value of those assets is typically substantially less than the amount of money we advance to the customer under a cash flow transaction. In addition, some of our cash flow loans may be viewed as stretch loans, meaning they may be at leverage multiples that exceed accepted traditional bank lending standards for senior cash flow loans. Thus, if a cash flow transaction becomes non-performing, our primary recourse to recover some or all of the principal of our loan or other debt product would be to force the sale of all or part of the company as a going concern. The risks inherent in cash flow lending include, among other things: • reduced use of or demand for the customer’s products or services and, thus, reduced cash flow of the customer to service the loan and other debt product as well as reduced value of the customer as a going concern; • inability of the customer to manage working capital, which could result in lower cash flow; • inaccurate or fraudulent reporting of our customer’s positions or financial statements; • economic downturns, political events, regulatory changes, litigation or acts of terrorism that affect the customer’s business, financial condition and prospects; and • our customer’s poor management of their business. Additionally, many of our customers use the proceeds of our cash flow transactions to make acquisitions. Poorly executed or poorly conceived acquisitions can tax management, systems and the operations of the existing business, causing a decline in both the customer’s cash flow and the value of its business as a going concern. In addition, many acquisitions involve new management teams taking over control of a business. These new management teams may fail to execute at the same level as the former management team, which could reduce the cash flow of the customer available to service the loan or other debt product, as well as reduce the value of the customer as a going concern. We provide second lien, subordinated/mezzanine loans, other debt products and equity-linked products that may rank junior to rights of other lenders, representing a higher risk of loss than our other loans and debt products in which we have a first priority position. We provide second lien, subordinated/mezzanine loans, other debt products and equity-linked products, which are typically junior in right of payment to obligations to customers’ senior secured lenders and contain either junior or no collateral rights. As a result of their junior nature, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect principal and interest on these loans and other debt products or to recover any of their outstanding balance through a foreclosure of collateral. For example, typically we are not contractually entitled to receive payments of principal on a junior loan or other debt product until the senior loan or other debt product 14 Table of Contents is paid in full, and we may only receive interest payments on a second lien or subordinated/mezzanine asset if the customer is not in default under its senior secured loan. In many instances, we are also prohibited from foreclosing on collateral securing a second lien, subordinated/mezzanine loan or other debt product until the senior loan is paid in full. Moreover, any amounts that we might realize as a result of our collection efforts or in connection with a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving a customer under a second lien, subordinated/mezzanine loan or other debt product must generally be turned over to the senior secured lender until the senior secured lender has realized the full value of its own claims. These restrictions may materially and adversely affect our ability to recover the principal of any non-performing senior subordinate, second lien, subordinated/mezzanine loans and other debt product. In addition, on occasion we provide senior loans or other debt products that are contractually subordinated to one or more senior secured loans for the customer. In those cases we may have a first lien security interest, but one or more creditors have payment priority over us. As of December 31, 2008, our second lien and, subordinated/mezzanine loans totaled $40.2 million. If interest rates rise, demand for our loans or other debt products may decrease and some of our existing customers may be unable to service interest on their loans or other debt products. Most of our loans and other debt products bear interest at floating interest rates. To the extent interest rates increase, monthly interest obligations owed by our customers to us will also increase. Demand for our loans or other debt products may decrease as interest rates rise or if interest rates are expected to rise in the future. In addition, if prevailing interest rates increase, some of our customers may not be able to make the increased interest payments or refinance their balloon and bullet transaction, resulting in payment defaults and loan impairments. Conversely if interest rates decline, our customers may refinance the loans they have with us at lower interest rates, or with others, leading to lower revenues. Errors by, or dishonesty of, our employees in making credit decisions or in our loan and other debt product servicing activities could result in credit losses and harm our reputation. We rely heavily on the performance and integrity of our employees in making our initial credit decisions with respect to our loans and other debt products and in servicing our loans and other debt products after they have closed. Because there is generally little or no publicly available information about our customers, we cannot independently confirm or verify the information our employees provide us for use in making our credit and funding decisions. Errors by our employees in assembling, analyzing or recording information concerning our customers could cause us to originate loans or fund subsequent advances that we would not otherwise originate or fund, which could result in loan losses. Losses could also arise if any of our employees were dishonest, particularly if they colluded with a customer to misrepresent the creditworthiness of a prospective customer or to provide inaccurate reports regarding the customer’s compliance with the covenants in its loan or other debt products agreement. If, based on an employee’s dishonesty, we made a loan or other debt product to a customer that was not creditworthy or failed to exercise our rights under a loan or other debt product agreement against a customer that was not in compliance with covenants in the agreement, we could lose some or all of the principal of the loan or other debt product. Fraud or dishonesty on the part of our employees could also damage our reputation which could harm our competitive position and adversely affect our business. We are not the sole lender or agent for most of our loans or other debt products. Consequently, we do not have absolute control over how these loans or other debt products are administered or have control over those loans. When we are not the sole lender or agent, we may be required to seek approvals from other lenders before we take actions to enforce our rights. A majority of our loan portfolio consists of loans and other debt products in which we are neither the sole lender, the agent for the lending group that receives payments under the loan or other debt product nor the agent that controls the underlying collateral. For these loans and other debt products, we may not have direct access to the customer and, as a result, may not receive the same financial or operational information as we receive for loans or other debt products for which we are the agent. This may make it more difficult for us to track or rate 15 Table of Contents these loans or other debt products. Additionally, we may be prohibited or otherwise restricted from taking actions to enforce the loan or other debt product or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan or other debt product without the agreement of other lenders holding a specified minimum aggregate percentage, generally a majority or two-thirds of the outstanding principal balance. It is possible that an agent for one of these loans or other debt products may choose not to take the same actions to enforce the loan or other debt product or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan that we would have taken had we been the agent for the loan or other debt product. Our commitments to lend additional sums to customers may exceed our resources available to fund these commitments, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Our contractual commitments to lend additional sums to our customers may exceed our resources available to fund these commitments. Some of our funding sources are only available to fund a portion of a loan and other funding sources may not be immediately available. Our customers’ ability to borrow these funds may be restricted until they are able to demonstrate, among other things, that they have sufficient collateral to secure the requested additional borrowings or that the borrowing conforms to specific uses or meets certain conditions. We may have miscalculated the likelihood that our customers will request additional borrowings in excess of our readily available funds. If our calculations prove incorrect, we will not have the funds to make these loan advances without obtaining additional financing. Our failure to satisfy our full contractual funding commitment to one or more of our customers could create breach of contract or other liabilities for us and damage our reputation in the marketplace, which could then adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because there is no active trading market for most of the loans and other debt products in our loan portfolio, we might not be able to sell them at a favorable price or at all. The lack of active secondary markets for some of our investments may also create uncertainty as to the value of these investments. We may seek to dispose of one or more of our loans and other debt products to obtain liquidity or to reduce or limit potential losses with respect to non-performing assets. There is no established trading market for most of our loans and other debt products. In addition, the fair value of other debt products that have lower levels of liquidity or are not publicly-traded may not be readily determinable and may fluctuate significantly on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis. Because these valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that we ultimately attain for these debt products or would be able to attain if we have to sell our other debt products. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. In addition, given the limited trading market for our loans and other debt products and the uncertainty as to their fair value at any point in time, if we seek to sell a loan or other debt product to obtain liquidity or reduce or limit losses, we may not be able to do so at a favorable price or at all. We selectively underwrite transactions that we may be unable to syndicate. On a selective basis, we commit to underwrite transactions that are significantly larger than our internal hold targets and we then seek to syndicate any amounts in excess of our target. We may syndicate these loans to the NCOF or to other lenders. As part of the syndication process to the NCOF, we must hold the targeted loans for at least 31 days. After 31 days the NCOF may reject the loan should credit deteriorate. If we are unable to syndicate these commitments, we may have to sell the additional exposure on unfavorable terms, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if we must hold a larger portion of a transaction than we would like, we may not be able to complete other transactions and our loan portfolio may become more concentrated, which could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we hold a loan that exceeds our internal hold targets, we obtain a separate credit approval for the excess portion. 16 Table of Contents We entered into a specific transaction comprised of loans to individual consumers, which present different risks than those associated with commercial loans. We entered into a specific transaction comprised of individual consumer loans with an outstanding balance of $10.6 million at December 31, 2008. We are a commercial finance company, and our risk and return parameters are not focused on individual consumer loans and may not accurately predict the risks and returns of consumer loans. The repayments of the individual loans are backed by independent corporate guarantees, and we are fully indemnified by the independent party if legal action were brought against us. Risks Related to Our Funding and Leverage Our ability to grow our business depends on our ability to obtain external financing. If our lenders terminate any of our credit facilities or if we default on our credit facilities, we may not be able to continue to fund our business. We require a substantial amount of cash to provide new loans and other debt products and to fund our obligations to existing customers. In the past, we have obtained the cash required for our operations through the issuance of equity interests and by borrowing money through credit facilities, term debt securitizations and repurchase agreements. We may not be able to continue to access these or other sources of funds. As of December 31, 2008, we had two credit facilities subject to annual liquidity renewals, with aggregate commitments of $650 million maturing in 2011. Our $350 million credit facility with Wachovia is subject to an annual renewal in April 2009, and our $300 million credit facility with Citicorp is subject to an annual renewal in November 2009. If either of our lenders decides not to renew its credit facility with us on the respective annual renewal date, our ability to make new borrowings under that credit facility would terminate. In addition, we had one credit facility with a commitment of $75 million that matures in 2009. During 2008, we entered into amendments to two of our credit facilities that reduced the size of the facilities by an aggregate amount of $150 million, and in January 2009, we entered into an amendment that reduced the commitment amount of our term debt facility by $150 million. Other key terms of these amendments included lower advance rates and pricing increases. Substantially all of our non-securitized loans and other debt products are held in these facilities. Our credit facilities contain customary representations and warranties, covenants, conditions, events of default and termination events that if breached, not satisfied or triggered, could result in termination of the facility. These events of default and termination events include, but are not limited to, failure to service debt obligations, failure to meet liquidity covenants and tangible net worth covenants, and failure to remain within prescribed facility portfolio delinquency and charge-off levels. Further, all cash flow generated by our loans and other debt products subject to a particular facility would go to pay down our borrowings thereunder rather than to us if we are in default. Additionally, if the facility were terminated due to our breach, noncompliance or default, our lenders could liquidate or sell all of our loans and other debt products held in that facility. Also, if we trigger a default or there is a termination event under one facility and that default or termination results in a payment default or in the acceleration of that facility’s debt, it may trigger a default or termination event under our other facilities that have cross-acceleration or payment cross-default provisions. Consequently, if one or more of these facilities were to terminate prior to its expected maturity date, our liquidity position would be materially adversely affected, and we may not be able to satisfy our undrawn commitment balances, originate new loans or other debt products or continue to fund our operations. Even if we are able to refinance our debt, we may not be able to do so on favorable terms. If we are not able to obtain additional funding on favorable terms or at all, our ability to grow our business will be impaired. We anticipate generating liquidity by utilizing means that we have not regularly used in the past, including sales of loans and real estate that we own. These sale activities are dependent on, and subject to, market and economic conditions and our ability to find willing and able buyers to enter into transactions with us and, therefore, are highly speculative. Furthermore, due to current market conditions, if we are able to consummate any asset sales we expect that such sales would be at prices discounted to our current carrying value. 17 Table of Contents The recent disruptions in the global financial markets may continue to negatively impact our ability to raise additional capital. As a result of the current economic climate and tightness in the capital markets, we expect to continue to experience difficulty and higher cost in securing term debt financing for our loan portfolio. Given current market conditions, we believe that completing a traditional term debt securitization is unlikely. Additionally, the financings we have renewed and the amendments to existing credit facilities we have obtained in 2008 have been more expensive and provide lower advance rates than similar transactions completed in prior periods. While we believe that we will benefit from these market conditions by re-pricing our existing loans when possible and originating new loans when possible at significantly higher yields and potentially on more favorable terms, we expect to be negatively impacted by the trend toward higher cost of borrowing and lower leverage in 2008 and in future periods. Unfavorable economic conditions could also increase our funding costs. The current market disruptions have limited our access to the capital markets and may result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us, or renew existing credit facilities which could negatively impact our results of operations. Our lenders and noteholders could terminate us as servicer of our loans, which would adversely affect our ability to manage our loan portfolio and reduce our net interest income. Upon the occurrence of specified default events, our lenders under our credit facilities and the holders of the notes issued in our term debt securitizations may elect to terminate us as servicer of the loans and other debt products under the applicable facility and appoint a successor servicer. These default events include, but are not limited to, the loss of any four named members of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our senior management nor have we taken any other precautions to offset the financial loss we could incur as a result of any of their departures. If we are terminated as servicer, we will no longer receive our servicing fee. In addition, because any successor servicer may not be able to service our loan portfolio according to our standards, any transfer of servicing to a successor servicer could result in reduced or delayed collections, delays in processing payments and information regarding the loans and other debt products and a failure to meet all of the servicing procedures required by the applicable servicing agreement. Consequently, the performance of our loans and other debt products could be adversely affected and our income generated from those loans and other debt products significantly reduced. Our liquidity position could be adversely affected if we were unable to complete additional term debt securitizations in the future, or if the reinvestment periods in our term debt securitizations terminate early, which could create a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have completed three term debt securitizations to fund our loans and other debt products, all of which we accounted for on our balance sheet, through which we issued $1.3 billion of notes. We did not complete a term debt securitization during 2008. Given current market conditions, we believe that it is unlikely that we would be able to complete a traditional term debt securitization. Our term debt securitizations consist of asset securitization transactions in which we transfer loans and other debt products to a trust that aggregates our loans and, in turn, sells notes, collateralized by the trust’s assets, to institutional investors. The notes issued by the trusts have been rated by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. The ratings range from AAA to BB by Standard & Poor’s, Inc. and Fitch Ratings, Inc. and Aaa to Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., depending on the class of notes. As of December 31, 2008 we also had a $400 million unrated term debt credit facility with one counterparty and with a single class of notes. On January 15, 2009, we entered into an amendment which reduced the commitment amount under this facility to $250 million. This facility had an outstanding balance of $219 million at December 31, 2008. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our goal in completing these transactions was to raise additional capital to pay down our borrowings under our credit facilities and to create additional liquidity under our credit facilities for use in funding our loan portfolio. 18 Table of Contents We intend to complete additional term debt securitizations in the future. Several factors will affect demand for, and our ability to complete additional term debt securitizations, including: • disruptions in the capital markets generally, and the asset-backed securities market in particular; • disruptions in the credit quality and performance of our loan portfolio, particularly that portion which has been previously securitized and serves as collateral for existing term debt securitizations; • our ability to service our loan portfolio must continue to be perceived as adequate to make the issued securities attractive to investors; and • any material downgrading or withdrawal of ratings given to securities previously issued in our term debt securitizations. If we are unable to complete additional term debt securitizations, our ability to obtain the capital needed for us to continue to operate and grow our business would be adversely affected. In addition, our credit facilities are only intended to provide short-term financing for our transactions. If we are unable to finance our transactions over the longer term through our term debt securitizations, our credit facilities may not be renewed. Moreover, our credit facilities typically carry a higher interest rate than our term debt securitizations. Accordingly, our inability to complete additional term debt securitizations in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and result of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Market Conditions.” If a specified default event occurred in a term debt securitization, the reinvestment period would be terminated. This could have an adverse effect on our ability to fund new assets. The cash flows we receive from the interests we retain in our term debt securitizations could be delayed or reduced due to the requirements of the term debt securitization. We have retained 100% of the junior-most interests, which we refer to as the trust certificates, issued in the term debt securitizations, totaling $129.3 million in principal amount, issued in each of our three term debt securitizations that we have completed through December 31, 2008. The notes issued in the term debt securitizations that we did not retain are senior to the trust certificates we did retain. Cash flows generated by the retained interest in these trust certificates were $39.2 million and $29.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our receipt of future cash flows on the trust certificates is governed by provisions that control the distribution of cash flows from the loans and other debt products included in our term debt securitizations. On a quarterly basis, interest cash flows from the loans and other debt products must first be used to pay the interest on the senior notes and expenses of the term debt securitization. Any funds remaining after the payment of these amounts are distributed to us. Several factors may influence the timing and amount of the cash flows we receive from loans and other debt products included in our term debt securitizations, including: • if any loan or other debt product included in a term debt securitization becomes 60 days or more delinquent or is charged off, all funds, after paying expenses and interest to the senior notes, go to a reserve account which then pays down an amount of senior notes equal to the amount of the delinquent loan or other debt product. Except for specified management fees, we will not receive any distributions from funds during this period; and • if other specified events occur to the trusts, for example an event of default, our cash flows would be used to reduce the outstanding balance of the senior notes and would not be available to us until the full principal balance of the senior notes has been repaid. 19 Table of Contents • if any of the classes of notes in our securitizations are downgraded by Moody’s or S&P, the principal repayment terms would change from a pro rata pay system, in which all investors would be repaid ratably, to a sequential pay system in which each class would be paid in full sequentially based on their seniority; since our investments are generally in the more junior or equity classes, a change to distribution on a sequential basis could reduce the distribution of principal to us. This repayment of principal begins to occur, under most circumstances, at the end of the reinvestment period. We have obtained a significant portion of our debt financing through a limited number of financial institutions. This concentration of funding sources exposes us to funding risks. We have obtained our credit facility financing from a limited number of financial institutions. Our reliance on the underwriters of our debt financing and their affiliates for a significant amount of our funding exposes us to funding risks. If these participating lenders determined to terminate our credit facilities, we would need to establish new lending relationships to satisfy our funding needs. Risks Related to the Potential Southern Commerce Bank Acquisition We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of our proposed acquisition of Southern Commerce Bank. On January 5, 2009, we entered into a Stock Purchase and Sale Agreement among Southern Commerce Bank and Dickinson Financial Corporation as seller. The proposed acquisition is expected to close in the second quarter of 2009, subject to us obtaining required regulatory approvals and the fulfillment of customary closing conditions. While we believe that the acquisition of the Southern Commerce Bank will result in significant benefits to us, there are certain risks associated with the acquisition that may prevent us from realizing all of these benefits. First, the deal is subject to closing conditions, including obtaining required approvals from governmental authorities whose approval or consent in connection with the acquisition is required, and there is no guarantee that these closing conditions will be met or that we will obtain all the approvals necessary to consummate the acquisition. It is possible that applicable bank regulatory authorities will impose requirements and limitations that may negatively affect the way we expect to conduct Southern Commerce Bank’s and the rest of our business and, therefore, could cause us to fail to realize the certain expected benefits of the transaction. Additionally, even if the closing does take place as expected, there is no guarantee that all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will be realized. Achieving the benefits of the acquisition will depend in part on integrating Southern Commerce Bank’s business operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner to minimize the risk that the acquisition will result in the loss of deposit customers, the loss of key employees or the diversion of our management’s attention from other important issues. Challenges to effectively integrating the bank’s business operations include the fact that we do not have experience in managing retail banking operations and the headquarters of Southern Commerce Bank will be located in Florida, while our headquarters is located in Boston, Massachusetts. We cannot offer any assurances that we can successfully integrate the bank’s operations in order to realize the acquisition’s anticipated benefits. Even if we are successful in integrating Southern Commerce Bank into our organization, we may fail to maintain or increase deposit balances at Southern Commerce Bank. While we expect to maintain and continue to increase deposit balances at Southern Commerce Bank following the potential acquisition, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully. Given the relatively short average maturity of Southern Commerce Bank’s deposits compared to the maturity of its loan assets, the inability of Southern Commerce Bank to raise or maintain deposits could compromise our ability to originate and own assets at Southern Commerce Bank, impair its liquidity and threaten the solvency of Southern Commerce Bank and the rest of NewStar. 20 Table of Contents Compliance with applicable banking regulations could be more costly than expected and could negatively impact our business. On January 12, 2009, we applied to the Federal Reserve for approval to become a Bank Holding Company (“BHC”) and acquire Southern Commerce Bank. If our applications are accepted and we become a BHC we will be subject to additional regulation and policies, which could place restrictions on our business. BHCs and national banking associations operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by various federal regulatory agencies, as well as other governmental agencies in the states in which they operate. This regulatory oversight is established to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters, including changes in the ownership or control of banks and BHCs, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. As a BHC, we and our non-bank subsidiaries would be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve. Additionally, Southern Commerce Bank is a national bank and, as such, subject primarily to the supervision and regulation by the OCC. The OCC possesses cease and desist powers to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the Federal Reserve possesses similar powers with respect to BHCs. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we may conduct business and obtain financing. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. Southern Commerce Bank’s business is affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the economic, fiscal and monetary policies of the United States and its agencies and regulatory authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The economic and fiscal policies of various governmental entities and the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve may affect the interest rates Southern Commerce Bank must offer to attract deposits and the interest rates they must charge on loans, as well as the manner in which they offer deposits and make loans. These economic, fiscal and monetary policies have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant effects on the operating results of depository institutions generally, including Southern Commerce Bank. Our acquisition of Southern Commerce Bank would, therefore, link our results of operations and financial condition to the decisions and policies of the Federal Reserve to a greater extent than they have been previously. Risks Related to Our Operations and Financial Results Our quarterly net interest income and results of operations are difficult to forecast and may fluctuate substantially. Our quarterly net interest income and results of operations are difficult to forecast. We may experience substantial fluctuations in net interest income and results of operations from quarter to quarter. You should not rely on our results of operations in any prior reporting period to be indicative of our performance in future reporting periods. Many different factors could cause our results of operations to vary from quarter to quarter, including: • the success of our origination activities; • pre-payments on our loan portfolio; 21 Table of Contents • credit losses and default rates; • our ability to enter into financing arrangements; • competition; • seasonal fluctuations in our business, including the timing of transactions; • costs of compliance with regulatory requirements; • private equity activity; • the timing of any future acquisitions; • personnel changes; • changes in prevailing interest rates; • general changes to the U.S. and global economies; and • political conditions or events. We base our current and future operating expense levels and our investment plans on estimates of future net interest income, transaction activity and rate of growth. We expect that our expenses will increase in the future, and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our net interest income falls short of our expectations. Any shortfalls in our net interest income or in our expected growth rates could result in decreases in our stock price. Our business is highly dependent on key personnel. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Investment Officer as well as other key personnel. While we entered into employment agreements with each of these officers, if we were to lose the services of any of these executives for any reason, including voluntary resignation or retirement, we may not be able to replace them with someone of equal skill or ability and our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, we may not function well without the continued services of these executives. We may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. Our ability to originate and underwrite loans and other debt products is dependent on the experience and expertise of our employees. In order to grow our business, we must attract and retain qualified personnel, especially origination and credit personnel with relationships with referral sources and an understanding of small and middle-market businesses and the industries in which our borrowers operate. Many of the financial institutions with which we compete for experienced personnel may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. If any of our key origination personnel leave, our new loan and other debt product volume from their business contacts may decline or cease, regardless of the terms of our loan and other debt product offerings or our level of service. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them and increases the costs of replacing them. As competition for qualified employees grows, our cost of labor could increase, which could adversely impact our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We intend to conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which we refer to as the Investment Company Act. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines as an investment company any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40.0% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Excluded from the term “investment securities” are, among other things, securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. We expect that many of our majority-owned subsidiaries, including those which we have created (or may in the future create) in connection with our term debt securitizations, will rely on exceptions and exemptions from the Investment Company Act available to certain structured finance companies and that our interests in those subsidiaries will not constitute “investment securities” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. Because these exceptions and exemptions may, among other things, limit the types of assets these subsidiaries may purchase or counterparties with which we may deal, we must monitor each subsidiary’s compliance with its applicable exception or exemption. We must also monitor our loan portfolio to ensure that the value of the investment securities we hold does not exceed 40.0% of our total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. If the combined value of the investment securities issued by our subsidiaries that are investment companies or that must rely on the exceptions provided by Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act rather than another exception or exemption, together with any other investment securities we may own, exceeds 40.0% of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis, we may be deemed to be an investment company. Because we believe that the interests we hold in our subsidiaries generally will not be investment securities, we do not expect to own nor do we propose to acquire investment securities in excess of 40.0% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. We intend to monitor for compliance with the Investment Company Act on an ongoing basis and may be compelled to take or refrain from taking actions, to acquire additional income or loss generating assets or to forego opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial or advisable, including, but not limited to selling assets that are considered to be investment securities or foregoing sale of assets which are not investment securities, in order to ensure that we (or a subsidiary) may continue to rely on the applicable exceptions or exemptions. These limitations on our freedom of action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain an exemption, exception or other exclusion from registration as an investment company, we could, among other things, be required to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations either to avoid being required to register as an investment company or to register as an investment company. If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to, among other things, our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, criminal and civil actions could be brought against us, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court was to require enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Operating and Trading History We have incurred losses in the past as a startup company, and have only recently achieved profitability and may not achieve profitability in future periods. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we recorded net losses of $8.6 million and $27.2 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded net income of $22.4 million. The loss for 2007 was primarily due to a loss of $30.6 million on our residual interest in a securitization and a loss of $20.3 million due to the recognition of impairments of investments in debt securities. The loss for 2006 was primarily due to a non-cash compensation charge of $39.1 million in connection with restricted stock grants made since our inception, including equity awards made in connection with the initial public offering. We may not be profitable in future periods for a variety of reasons. If we are unable to achieve, maintain and increase our profitability in the future, the market value of our common stock could further decline. We have been in operation since June 2004, which may not serve as an adequate time frame to evaluate our business, results of operations and prospects and may increase the risk of your investment. Because of our limited operating history, our historical results of operations may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, results of operations and prospects. You should evaluate our business, results of operations and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter as an early-stage company in a highly competitive industry, including our potential inability to: • successfully compete for transaction opportunities; • raise debt and equity capital on attractive terms; • continue to grow and manage our growth effectively; • accurately forecast the level of credit losses that we may experience in our loan portfolio; • successfully hire and retain key personnel; or • effectively manage our business. We may not be able to successfully address these risks and difficulties, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. We are in a highly competitive business and may not be able to compete effectively, which could impact our profitability. The commercial lending industry is highly competitive and includes a number of competitors who provide similar types of loans to our target customers. Our principal competitors include a variety of: • specialty and commercial finance companies, including business development companies and real estate investment trusts; • private investment funds and hedge funds; • national and regional banks; • investment banks; and • insurance companies. 24 Table of Contents Some of our competitors offer a broader range of financial, lending and banking services than we do and can leverage their existing customer relationships to offer and sell services that compete directly with our products and services. In addition, some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, origination and other resources than we do. They may also have greater access to capital than we do and at a lower cost than is available to us. For example, if national and regional banks or other large competitors seek to expand within or enter our target markets, they may provide loans at lower interest rates to gain market share, which could force us to lower our rates and result in decreased returns. As a result of competition, we may not be able to attract new customers, retain existing customers or sustain the rate of growth that we have experienced to date, and our ability to expand our loan portfolio and grow future revenue may decline. If our existing customers choose to use competing sources of credit to refinance their debt, our loan portfolio could be adversely affected. We are subject to regulation and any changes in such regulations could affect our business and our profitability. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern non-depository commercial lenders and businesses generally. Any changes in such laws or regulations could affect our business and profitability. In addition, if we expand our business into areas or jurisdictions that are subject to, or have adopted, more stringent laws and regulations than those that are currently applicable to us and our business, we may have to incur significant additional expense or restrict our operations in order to comply, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations or prospects. Currently, we are not regulated as an insured depository institution or bank holding company and do not control any regulated insured depository institution. Banks are subject to extensive regulation by the office of the Comptroller of the Currency with respect to their activities and investments, their capitalization, their risk management policies and procedures and their relationships with affiliated companies. If we become a bank holding company, we will be subject to additional regulations which could adversely impact our business or our results of operations. Our common stock may continue to have a volatile public trading price. Historically, the market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and the market for our common stock has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, some of which are unrelated to our company’s operating performance. Since our common stock began trading publicly on December 14, 2006, the trading price of our stock has fluctuated from a high of $20.85 to a low of $0.61. It is likely that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate in the future. Factors which may have a significant adverse effect on our common stock’s market price include: • the rate of charge-offs, impairments and non-accruals in our loan portfolio; • fluctuations in interest rates and the actual or perceived impact of these rates on our current customers and future prospects; • changes to the regulatory environment in which we operate; • our ability to raise additional capital and the terms on which we can secure such capital; • general market and economic conditions; and • quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and other financial results. The reported average daily trading volume of our common stock for the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2008 was 107,987 shares, however our trading volume has exceeded 1,000,000 shares on several occasions. Such a low average trading volume may impact our shareholders’ ability to buy and sell shares of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 