Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of losses, and we may not achieve profitability in the future. We have not been profitable in any fiscal period since we were formed. We experienced a net loss of $25.4 million in 2006 and $19.2 million in 2005. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was $75.1 million. We expect to make significant expenditures related to the development of our products and expansion of our business, including expenditures for additional sales and marketing and research and development personnel. We may encounter unforeseen difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown factors that require additional expenditures. As a result of these increased expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain substantially increased revenue to achieve profitability. Our revenue growth trends in prior periods are not likely to be sustainable. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability and we may continue to incur significant losses in the future. We face intense competition and expect competition to increase in the future, which could reduce our revenue and customer base. The market for our products is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. This competition could make it more difficult for us to sell our products, and result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. For instance, the decrease in the price of disk drives and other industry standard hardware components has resulted in increased pricing pressure and a reduction in the price per megabyte of storage. Currently, we face competition from a number of established companies, including EMC Corporation, Hewlett-Packard Company, Hitachi Data Systems Corporation, International Business Machines Corporation, Network Appliance, Inc. and Sun Microsystems, Inc. We also face competition from a large number of private companies and recent market entrants. Many of our current competitors have, and some of our potential competitors could have, longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater 20 Table of Contents financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. Potential customers may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier regardless of product performance or features. We expect increased competition from other established and emerging companies, including companies such as networking infrastructure and storage management companies that provide complementary technology and functionality. In addition, third parties currently selling our products could market products and services that compete with ours. Some of our competitors, including EMC and Network Appliance, have made acquisitions of businesses that allow them to offer more directly competitive and comprehensive solutions than they had previously offered. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. If so, new competitors or alliances that include our competitors may emerge that could acquire significant market share. We expect these trends to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry. In addition, large operating system and application vendors, such as Microsoft Corporation, have introduced and may in the future introduce products or functionality that include some of the same functions offered by our products. In the future, further development by these vendors could cause our products to become obsolete. In addition, we compete against internally developed storage solutions as well as combined third-party software and hardware solutions. Any of these competitive threats, alone or in combination with others, could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. In addition, a significant portion of our quarterly sales typically occurs near the end of the quarter. As a result, small delays can make our operating results difficult to predict. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts that follow our company, the price of our common stock would likely decline. Factors that may affect our operating results include: • the timing and magnitude of shipments and timing of installations of our products in each quarter; • reductions in customers’ budgets for information technology purchases, delays in their purchasing cycles or deferments of their product purchases in anticipation of new products or updates from us or our competitors; • the rates at which customers purchase additional storage systems from us and renew their service contracts with us; • the timing of recognizing revenue as a result of revenue recognition rules; • fluctuations in demand, sales cycles and prices for our products and services; • our ability to develop, introduce and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements; • the timing of product releases or upgrades or announcements by us or our competitors; • any change in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including new entrants or discounting of product prices; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses and the costs of the components we use in our products; • the possibility of seasonality of demand for our products; • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock compensation expenses pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, or SFAS 123(R), which first became effective for us in the first quarter of 2006 and requires that employee stock-based compensation be measured based on its fair value on the grant date and treated as an expense that is reflected in financial statements over the recipient’s service period; 21 Table of Contents • future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies; and • geopolitical events such as war or incidents of terrorism. Our limited operating history in our emerging market makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects, and may increase the risk of your investment. Our company has only been in existence since January 2001. We first began shipping products in January 2003 and much of our growth has occurred since October 2005. Our limited operating history in our emerging market makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and our future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks described in this report. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business will be harmed. Our future financial performance depends on growth in the market for storage of digital content. If this market does not continue to grow at the rate that we forecast, our operating results would be materially and adversely impacted. Our products are designed to address the market for storage of digital content. This is a new and emerging market. Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend in large part on growth in this market and on our ability to adapt to emerging demands in this market. Changes in technologies could adversely affect the demand for storage systems. For example, advances in file compression technology could result in smaller file sizes and reduce the demand for storage systems. A reduction in demand for storage of digital content caused by lack of customer acceptance, weakening economic conditions, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending or otherwise, would result in decreased revenue or a lower revenue growth rate. We cannot assure you that the market for storage of digital content will grow or that we will be able to respond adequately to changes in this market. If we are unable to maintain or replace our relationships with customers or to increase the diversification of our customer base, it would be more difficult to maintain or grow our revenue and our growth might be limited. Historically, a significant portion of our total revenue has come from a limited number of customers in a small number of industries, particularly media and entertainment and Internet companies. For example, our two largest customers for 2006, Comcast Corporation, which purchased through one of our resellers, and Eastman Kodak Company, together accounted for approximately 26% of our total revenue, and our largest customer in 2005, Eastman Kodak Company, accounted for approximately 20% of our total revenue. Because of concentrated purchases by certain new and existing customers, our largest customers have historically varied from quarter to quarter. As a consequence of the concentrated nature of our customers’ purchasing patterns, the proportion of our total revenue derived from a small number of customers may be even higher in any future quarter. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to sustain our revenue from these customers because our revenue has largely been generated in connection with these customers’ decisions to deploy large-scale storage installations and their capacity requirements may have been met. In addition, our customers, including Comcast Corporation and Eastman Kodak Company, generally buy systems on a purchase order basis and generally do not enter into long-term contracts or minimum purchase commitments. If we are unable to sustain our revenue from these customers or to replace it with revenue from new or existing customers, our growth may be limited. If economic conditions change for the industries in which our largest customers do business, or if we are unable to attract significant numbers of customers in other targeted industries, including government, oil and gas, and life sciences, our ability to maintain or grow our revenue would be adversely affected. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to technological changes, if our new products do not achieve market acceptance or if we fail to manage product transitions, we may fail to increase, or may lose, market share. Our future growth depends on the successful development and introduction of new systems and software products. Due to the complexity of storage systems, these products are subject to significant technical risks that may 22 Table of Contents impact our ability to introduce these products successfully. Our new products also may not achieve market acceptance. In addition, our new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if these products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Product introductions by us in future periods may also reduce demand for our existing products. As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and ensure that sufficient supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customer demand. We rely on value-added resellers and other distribution partners to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to develop and manage, our distribution channels and the processes and procedures that support them could result in these resellers and partners discontinuing the marketing and distribution of our products and services. Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added resellers and other distribution partners, which we collectively refer to as channel partners. A significant portion of our total revenue is currently derived through our channel partners. Therefore, our ability to maintain or grow our revenue will likely depend, in part, on our ability to maintain our arrangements with our existing channel partners and to establish and expand arrangements with new channel partners, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue. Additionally, by relying on channel partners, we may have less contact with the ultimate users of our products, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our products, service ongoing customer requirements and respond to evolving customer needs. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in our technology and product offerings require significant time and resources. In order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our channel partners, including investments in systems and training. Those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and difficult to manage. We typically enter into non-exclusive, written distribution agreements with our channel partners that generally have a one-year term, have no minimum sales commitment and do not prohibit them from offering products and services that compete with ours. Accordingly, our channel partners may choose to discontinue offering our products and services or may not devote sufficient attention and resources toward selling our products and services. Our competitors may provide incentives to our existing and potential channel partners to use or purchase their products and services or to prevent or reduce sales of our products and services. Some of our channel partners possess significant resources and advanced technical abilities and may, either independently or jointly with our competitors, develop and market products and related services that compete with our offerings. If this were to occur, these channel partners might discontinue marketing and distributing our products and services. In addition, these channel partners would have an advantage over us when marketing their competing products and related services because of their existing customer relationships. The occurrence of any of these events would likely materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our sales are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from quarter to quarter, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. The timing of our revenue is difficult to predict. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers about the use and benefits of our products, including their technical capabilities and potential cost savings to an organization. Customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process that in the past has resulted in a lengthy sales cycle, in some cases more than 12 months. We spend substantial time and resources on our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. In addition, product purchases are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. If we do not realize 23 Table of Contents expected sales from a specific customer for a particular quarter in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could cause us to incur substantial costs, distract our management and, if these claims are successful, require us to pay substantial damages or prevent us from offering our products. Third parties could claim that our products or technologies infringe their proprietary rights. The data storage industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We expect that infringement claims may further increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases. Although we have not to date been involved in any litigation related to intellectual property, we received a letter on July 31, 2006 from counsel to SeaChange International, Inc., a supplier of video-on-demand digital server systems and software to the television industry, suggesting that our products may be using SeaChange’s patented technology. We sent a response letter to SeaChange on August 7, 2006 to convey our good faith belief, based on our initial review of SeaChange’s patents, that the SeaChange patents are not relevant to Isilon’s products. We have exchanged additional correspondence with SeaChange’s legal counsel, who, among other things, alleged infringement and requested a meeting to discuss SeaChange’s concerns. We have investigated these allegations with the assistance of counsel, and we believe that we do not infringe. If we are unable to reach an amicable resolution of this dispute, it is possible that litigation with SeaChange may result. The outcome of any litigation is inherently unpredictable, and accordingly, we cannot assure you that, in the future, a court would not find that our products infringed these patents. We cannot assure you that we do not currently infringe, or that we will not in the future infringe, upon any third-party patents or other proprietary rights. Any claim of infringement by a third party, even one without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Further, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our products. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of the infringed intellectual property, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternatively, we might be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and might ultimately be unsuccessful. Any of these events could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our customers and channel partners. Any of these claims would require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims, because we generally indemnify our customers and channel partners from claims of infringement of proprietary rights of third parties. If any of these claims succeeds, we might be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or channel partners, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We derive substantially all of our total revenue from sales of our Isilon IQ product family and related services, and a decline in demand for our Isilon IQ product family would cause our revenue to grow more slowly or to decline. We derive substantially all of our total revenue from sales of our Isilon IQ product family and customer and technical support services associated with this product family. As a result, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for this product family, whether as a result of competition, product obsolescence, technological change, customer budgetary constraints or other factors. If demand for our Isilon IQ product family were to decline, our financial condition would be harmed. If we are unable to continue to create valuable innovations in software, we may not be able to generate additional high-margin revenue to increase our gross margins. Our industry has a history of declining storage hardware prices as measured on a cost per gigabyte of storage capacity basis. In order to maintain or increase our gross margins, we will need to continue to create valuable software that is included with our clustered storage systems and/or sold as separate standalone software applications. Any new feature or application that we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost- 24 Table of Contents effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to help increase our overall gross margin. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire, and then market and sell, additional software functionality, such as our recently introduced SmartConnect and SnapshotIQ software applications, our ability to maintain or increase our high-margin revenue and gross margin will be adversely affected. We currently rely on a single contract manufacturer to assemble our products, and our failure to forecast demand for our products accurately or manage our relationship with our contract manufacturer successfully could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. We currently rely on a single contract manufacturer, Sanmina-SCI Corporation, to assemble our products, manage our supply chain and, alone or together with us, negotiate component costs. Our reliance on Sanmina reduces our control over the assembly process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and product supply. If we fail to manage our relationship with Sanmina effectively, or if Sanmina experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its operations, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. If we and Sanmina are unable to negotiate with suppliers for reduced component costs, our operating results would be harmed. Additionally, Sanmina can terminate our agreement for any reason upon 120 days’ notice or for cause upon 30 days’ notice. If we are required to change contract manufacturers or assume internal manufacturing operations, we may lose revenue, incur increased costs and damage our customer relationships. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production are expensive and time-consuming. We are required to provide forecasts to Sanmina regarding product demand and production levels. If we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may have excess or inadequate inventory or incur cancellation charges or penalties, which could adversely impact our operating results. We intend to introduce new products and product enhancements, which could require us to achieve volume production rapidly by coordinating with Sanmina and component suppliers. We may need to increase our component purchases, contract manufacturing capacity, and internal test and quality functions if we experience increased demand. The inability of Sanmina to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products, or an inability to obtain adequate quantities of components, could cause a delay in our order fulfillment, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases single-source suppliers, and any disruption or termination of these supply arrangements could delay shipments of our products and could materially and adversely affect our relationships with current and prospective customers. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for several key components utilized in the assembly of our products. We purchase several of our required components, such as chassis and disk drives, from a single supplier. This reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several risks, including: • supplier capacity constraints; • price increases; • timely delivery; and • component quality. Component quality is particularly significant with respect to our suppliers of disk drives. In order to meet product capacity requirements, we must obtain disk drives of extremely high quality and capacity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain enough of these components in the future or that prices of these components will not increase. In addition, problems with respect to yield and quality of these components and timeliness of deliveries could occur. Disruption or termination of the supply of these components could delay shipments of our products and could materially and adversely affect our relationships with current and prospective customers. These delays could also materially and adversely affect our operating results. 25 Table of Contents If we fail to manage future growth effectively, we may not be able to market and sell our products and services successfully. We have expanded our operations significantly since inception and anticipate that further significant expansion will be required. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our management’s ability to manage expansion and growth successfully, including, but not limited to, training our sales personnel to become productive and generate revenue, forecasting revenue, controlling expenses, implementing and enhancing infrastructure, systems and processes, addressing new markets and expanding international operations. A failure to manage our growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and services. Our products incorporate components that are obtained in spot markets, and, as a result, our cost structure and our ability to respond in a timely manner to customer demand are sensitive to volatility in the market prices for these components. A significant portion of our expenses is directly related to the pricing of commoditized components utilized in the manufacture of our products, such as memory chips, disk drives and CPUs. As part of our procurement model, we do not enter into long-term supply contracts for these components, but instead have our contract manufacturer purchase these components on our behalf. In some cases, our contract manufacturer does so in a competitive-bid purchase order environment with suppliers or on the open market at spot prices. As a result, our cost structure is affected by price volatility in the marketplace for these components, especially for disk drives. This volatility makes it difficult to predict expense levels and operating results and may cause them to fluctuate significantly. Furthermore, if we are successful in growing our business, we may not be able to continue to procure components on the spot market, which would require us to enter into contracts with component suppliers to obtain these components. This could increase our costs and decrease our gross margins. We maintain relatively low inventory and acquire components only as needed; as a result, if shortages of these components arise, we may not be able to secure enough components to build new products to meet customer demand. We maintain relatively low inventory and acquire components only as needed, and neither we nor our contract manufacturer enter into long-term supply contracts for these components. As a result, our ability to respond to customer orders efficiently may be constrained by the then-current availability or terms and pricing of these components. Our industry has experienced component shortages and delivery delays in the past, and we may experience shortages or delays of critical components in the future as a result of strong demand in the industry or other factors. For example, disk drives can represent a significant portion of our cost of revenue, and both the price and availability of various kinds of disk drives are subject to substantial volatility in the spot market. In the past, we have encountered situations where we paid higher prices than we had anticipated for disk drives or had to use a larger-size drive as a replacement. Likewise, the industry recently experienced a shortage of selected memory chips, which caused some of our motherboard suppliers to reduce or suspend shipments to us. This delayed our ability to ship selected configurations to some of our customers, and in some cases accelerated a transition by us to other components. In addition, new generations of disk drives are often in short supply and are subject to industry allocations that may limit our ability to procure these disk drives. Many of the other components required to build our systems are occasionally in short supply and subject to industry allocations. If shortages or delays arise, the prices of these components may increase or the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products to meet customer demand, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we lose key personnel, if key personnel are distracted or if we are unable to attract and retain highly-qualified personnel on a cost-effective basis, it would be more difficult for us to manage our existing business operations and to identify and pursue new growth opportunities. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our key technical, sales, services and management personnel. We rely on our executive officers and senior management to manage our existing business operations and to identify and pursue new growth opportunities. The loss of key employees could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration of replacement personnel could be time-consuming, cause additional disruptions to 26 Table of Contents our business or be unsuccessful. In addition, key personnel may be distracted by activities unrelated to our business. For instance, prior to joining us, Steven Goldman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, served in various senior executive positions in sales, marketing and services at F5 Networks, Inc. Mr. Goldman has been named, together with other former and current officers and directors of F5 Networks, as a co-defendant in a number of federal and state derivative lawsuits that have been filed since May 2006. The plaintiffs in these actions are seeking to bring derivative claims on behalf of F5 Networks against the defendants based on allegations of improper stock option pricing practices. Mr. Goldman has engaged his own counsel to represent him in these actions and believes that he has meritorious defenses to all claims against him. We currently carry key person life insurance covering only Mr. Goldman, and this insurance may not be able to compensate us adequately for the loss of Mr. Goldman’s services in the event of his death. The loss of the services, or distraction, of Mr. Goldman or other key executives for any reason could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future success also depends on our continued ability to attract and retain highly-qualified technical, sales, services and management personnel. In particular, our ability to enhance and maintain our technology requires talented software development engineers with specialized skills in areas such as distributed computing, file systems and operating systems. If we are not able to recruit and retain these engineers, the quality and speed with which our products are developed would likely be seriously compromised, and our reputation and business would suffer as a result. Competition for these and the other personnel we require, particularly in the Seattle metropolitan area, is intense, and we may fail to retain our key technical, sales, services and management employees or to attract or retain other highly-qualified technical, sales, services and management personnel in the future. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our service offerings, and our failure to offer high-quality service offerings would have a material adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products and services. After our products are deployed within our customers’ networks, our customers depend on our services organization to resolve issues relating to our products. High-quality support services are critical for the successful marketing and sale of our products. If we or our channel partners do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers to resolve post-deployment issues quickly, and provide ongoing support, it would adversely affect our ability to sell our products to existing customers and could harm our prospects with potential customers. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our services organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering services, training and documentation in languages other than English. As a result, our failure to maintain high-quality support services could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected software or hardware defects, which could cause data unavailability, loss or corruption that might, in turn, result in liability to our customers and harm to our reputation and business. Our storage products are highly technical and complex and are often used to store information critical to our customers’ business operations. Our products have contained and may contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities that could result in data unavailability, loss or corruption or other harm to our customers. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after they have been installed and used by customers. Any errors, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release, as well as any computer virus or human error on the part of our customer support or other personnel resulting in a customer’s data unavailability, loss or corruption could result in a loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, a loss of customers or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, including claims relating to changes to our products made by our channel partners. Our contracts with customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may be difficult to enforce. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, would be costly and might divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate with respect to a claim or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. 27 Table of Contents Our international sales and operations and offshore development initiative subject us to additional risks that may adversely affect our international operations and reduce our international sales. We derived approximately 24% and 17% of our total revenue from customers outside the United States in 2006 and 2005, respectively. We have sales and technical support personnel in several countries worldwide. We expect to continue to add personnel in additional countries. In addition, we use an offshore software development team from a third-party contract engineering provider in Moscow, Russia, and we may expand our offshore development effort within Russia and possibly in other countries. Our various international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: • the difficulty of managing and staffing international offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; • the challenge of managing development teams in geographically disparate locations; • tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in various foreign markets; • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; • the ability of our third-party contract engineering provider in Moscow, Russia to terminate our agreement for any reason upon 90 days’ notice after May 31, 2007; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, including Russia; and • political and economic instability. As we expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, and our ability to prevent this misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States. Further, with respect to patent rights, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. To date, we have obtained one issued United States patent and this patent, as well as any additional patents that may be issued to us may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing them. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and, as a result, our competitors may be able to develop technologies similar or superior to ours. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive and difficult. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforcing their intellectual property rights than we have. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. 28 Table of Contents Our use of open source and third-party software could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open source software into our products. Although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available, in source code form, proprietary code that links to certain open source modules, to re-engineer our products, or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may also find that we need to incorporate certain proprietary third-party technologies, including software programs, into our products in the future. However, licenses to relevant third-party technology may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Therefore, we could face delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. These delays, if they occur, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products must interoperate with many software applications that are developed by others and if we are unable to devote the necessary resources to ensure that our products interoperate with those applications, we may fail to increase, or we may lose, market share and we may experience a weakening demand for our products. Our products must interoperate with many software applications that are developed by others. When new or updated versions of these software applications are introduced, we must sometimes develop updated versions of our software so that they interoperate properly with these applications. We may not accomplish these development efforts quickly, cost-effectively or at all. These development efforts require substantial capital investment and the devotion of substantial employee resources. For example, our products currently interoperate with a number of data protection applications marketed by vendors such as Symantec Corporation and EMC. If we fail to maintain compatibility with these applications, our customers may not be able to protect adequately the data resident on our products and we may, among other consequences, fail to increase, or we may lose, market share and experience a weakening in demand for our products, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products must interoperate with various data-access protocols and, if we are unable to ensure that our products interoperate with these protocols, our products might become less competitive. Our products interoperate with servers and software applications predominantly through the use of protocols, many of which are created and maintained by independent standards organizations. However, some of these protocols that exist today or that may be created in the future are or could be proprietary technology and therefore require licensing the proprietary protocol’s specifications from a third party or implementing the protocol without specifications, which might entail significant effort on our part. If we fail to obtain a license to these specifications from third-party vendors on reasonable terms or at all, and we are not able to implement the protocol in the absence of these specifications, our products might become less competitive, which would harm our business. For example, Microsoft Corporation maintains and enhances the Common Internet File System, or CIFS, a proprietary protocol that our products use to communicate with the Windows operating system, the most popular computer operating system in the world. Although our products are currently compatible with CIFS, at present we do not license the specifications to this proprietary protocol. If we are not able to continue to maintain adequate compatibility with CIFS or if we are not able to license adequate specifications to this protocol on reasonable terms, our products would likely be less competitive in the marketplace, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents If our products do not interoperate with our customers’ networks, servers or software applications, installations would be delayed or cancelled. Our products must interoperate with our customers’ existing infrastructure, specifically their networks, servers and software applications. This infrastructure often utilizes multiple protocol standards, products from multiple vendors and a wide range of storage features. If we find, as we have in the past, defects in the existing software or hardware used in our customers’ infrastructure or an incompatibility or deficiency in our software, we may have to modify our software so that our products will interoperate with our customers’ infrastructure. This could cause longer sales and implementation cycles for our products and could cause order cancellations, either of which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders, reduce our financial resources and result in increased expenses. In the future, we may acquire other businesses, products or technologies. We have not made any acquisitions to date. Accordingly, our ability as an organization to make acquisitions is unproven. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, or these acquisitions may be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. In addition, any acquisitions that we make could lead to difficulties in integrating personnel, technologies and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses, and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our operating results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, as a result of SFAS 123(R), our results of operations in 2006 reflect expenses that are not reflected in prior periods, making it more difficult for investors to evaluate our 2006 results of operations relative to prior periods. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We are in the process of documenting, reviewing and, if appropriate, improving our internal controls and procedures in anticipation of being subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will in the future require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. Both we and our independent registered public accounting firm will be testing our internal controls in anticipation of being subject to Section 404 requirements and, as part of that documentation and testing, will identify areas for further attention and improvement. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing financial and accounting systems, take a significant period of time to complete, and distract our officers, directors and employees from the operation of our business. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or a consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions 30 Table of Contents that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may seriously affect our stock price. Our business is subject to increasingly complex environmental legislation that has increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. We face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of many of our products. The European Union, or EU, has adopted certain directives to facilitate the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the EU, including the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or RoHS, directive. The RoHS directive restricts the use of lead, mercury and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products placed on the market in the EU after July 1, 2006. In connection with our compliance with these environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs, including reserves taken for excess component inventory, and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, we will need to ensure that we can manufacture compliant products and that we can be assured a supply of compliant components from suppliers. Similar laws and regulations have been proposed or may be enacted in other regions, including in the United States, China and Japan. Other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our products to utilize components that are compatible with these regulations, and this reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. We cannot assure you that existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets. Because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, our products are subject to United States export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception. In addition, various countries regulate the importation of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by these regulations could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. If we need additional capital in the future, it may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. We have historically relied on outside financing and customer payments to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to fund our operations or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. We may not be able to secure timely additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of any additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. 31 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters are located in Seattle, Washington, an area that is at heightened risk of earthquake and volcanic events. We may not have adequate business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur from any such significant events. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake or volcanic eruption, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Also, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. In addition, acts of terrorism could cause disruptions in our or our customers’ business or the economy as a whole. To the extent that these disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the deployment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Risks Related Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile. Further, our common stock has a limited trading history. Since our initial public offering in December 2006 through February 28, 2007, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $18.79 to a high of $28.50. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock, some of which are outside our control, will include: • variations in our operating results or those of our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or product enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • the level of sales in a particular quarter; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; • the recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts who elect to follow our common stock; • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; • the adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business; and • the expiration of lock-up agreements. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Each of these factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect on an investment in our common stock. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class actions filed against them. If a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it would likely result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market after the contractual lock-up agreements and other restrictions on resale lapse, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Based on shares outstanding as of December 31, 2006, we have outstanding 61,519,356 shares of common stock. Of these shares, only the 8,940,717 shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering are freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and 32 Table of Contents Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated may, in their sole discretion, permit our directors, officers, employees and current stockholders who are subject to the 180-day contractual lock-up to sell shares prior to the expiration of the lock-up agreements. The lock-up is subject to extension under some circumstances. At various times after the lock-up agreements pertaining to our initial public offering expire, up to an additional 51,916,856 shares will be eligible for sale in the public market, of which 43,075,429 are held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates and will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and, in certain cases, various vesting agreements. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, the 16,789,044 shares that were either subject to outstanding options under our 2001 Stock Plan, reserved for future issuance or subject to outstanding options under our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan or 2006 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the 129,992 shares that, as of December 31, 2006, were subject to outstanding warrants, will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements, the lock-up agreements executed with the underwriters of our initial public offering and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Some of our existing stockholders and holders of warrants have demand and piggyback rights to require us to register with the SEC up to 46,647,678 shares of our common stock. If we register these shares of common stock, the stockholders would be able to sell those shares freely in the public market. All of these shares are subject to lock-up agreements restricting their sale for 180 days after the date of our initial public offering, subject to extension or reduction. Insiders continue to have substantial control over us and will be able to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2006, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 70.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. If securities or industry analysts cease publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on any research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. In the event one or more of these analysts downgrade our stock, cease publishing or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; • provide that directors may only be removed “for cause;” • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; • eliminate the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; 33 Table of Contents • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which has the effect of requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company by prohibiting stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us unless certain approvals are obtained. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this document, all of which are subject to risks and uncertainties. When we use words such as “may”, “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek” and “estimate” or similar words, we are making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future business success or financial results. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding: • our competitive environment; • the anticipated growth of digital content; • the expected demand for and benefits of our storage products; • our future business plans and growth strategy; • our ability to improve existing products and to develop new and future products; • our anticipated revenue and expenses; • our ability to add value-added resellers and distributors and to sell our products internationally; • our ability to realize operating leverage and realize efficiencies in our sales model by leveraging partners and selling to existing customers; • anticipated results of potential or actual litigation; • the anticipated sufficiency of our current office space and ability to find additional space as needed; • anticipated development or acquisition of intellectual property and resulting benefits; • expected impacts of changes in accounting rules, including the impact on deferred tax benefits; • the impact of governmental regulation; • employee hiring and retention, including anticipated reductions in force and headcount; • the future payment of dividends; • use of cash, cash needs and ability to raise capital; and • potential liability from contractual relationships. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are currently no unresolved issues with respect to any SEC staff written comments that were received at least 180 days before the end of the Company’s fiscal year to which this report relates and that relate to the Company’s periodic or current reports under the Act. 34 Table of Contents 