Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the more detailed description of our business and other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere, and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by the following: 10 Index We depend primarily upon sales from a single product line and the absence of continued demand for our products would have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. In both 2011 and 2010, we generated approximately 98% of our consolidated net sales from our HEELYS-wheeled footwear and we expect to continue to depend upon HEELYS-wheeled footwear for substantially all of our consolidated net sales in the foreseeable future. Because we are currently dependent on a single line of products, factors such as changes in consumer preferences may have a disproportionately greater impact on us than if we offered multiple product categories. If consumer interest in HEELYS-wheeled footwear or wheeled sports activity products in general continues to decline, we would likely experience a further loss of sales, cancellation of orders from customers, loss of customers, excess inventories, higher reserves for marketing discretionary fund assistance, increased reserves for inventory returns, inventory markdowns and discounts to our retail customers, deterioration of our brand image, and lower revenues and gross and operating margins as a result of price reductions and may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount, any or all of which would have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. There can be no assurance our products will hold long-term consumer appeal. If we are unable to enforce our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to sell products that are substantially similar to our products, which could adversely affect our sales and damage our brand image. We believe our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, issued and pending patents, trade dress and designs are valuable and integral to our success. The costs associated with obtaining and maintaining our intellectual property rights and protecting our HEELYS brand are significant. Further, we do not know whether our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents. Even if patents are issued in the future, we cannot predict how the patent claims will be construed and such patents may not provide us with the ability to prevent the development, manufacturing or marketing of infringing products. Enforcement of our patents and other intellectual property rights is often met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. The validity and enforceability of our patents may be challenged by third parties for many different reasons, including for example, prior art, prior disclosure, prior offers to sell, incorrect inventorship, prior invention by another, patent misuse, antitrust violations, laches and estoppel. In addition, we may not be able to detect infringement of our intellectual property rights quickly or at all, and at times in the past we have not been, and we may not be, successful combating counterfeit, infringing or knockoff products, thereby damaging our competitive position. For example, on many occasions, we have identified knockoff products sold by others we believe may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. Knockoff products often are sold under a brand name that is the same as or substantially similar to the HEELYS name. Knockoff and counterfeit products may continue to emerge, as others seek to trade on the goodwill of the HEELYS name and benefit from consumer demand for our products. We may not be able to detect all knockoff and counterfeit products and may lose our competitive position in a given geographic market before we become aware of any such infringement. To protect our HEELYS brand, we have already spent significant resources and may be required to spend significantly greater resources in the future to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in enforcing our intellectual property rights, sales of counterfeit, knockoff or infringing products by others could harm our HEELYS brand and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, the presence in the market of counterfeit, knockoff or infringing products of poor quality for even a short time period could have a detrimental impact on our HEELYS brand. We may not be able to obtain and maintain patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights protection in some foreign countries, which could result in us being unable to prevent others from using our HEELYS mark and product, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend upon the laws of the countries where our products are sold to protect our intellectual property. Intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in some countries because patent laws and standards of patentability vary internationally. Consequently, in certain foreign jurisdictions, we have elected not to apply for patents or trademark registrations. Further, patent and trademark protection may not be available for the HEELYS mark and product in every country where our products are sold. While we generally apply for patents and trademarks in most countries where we intend to sell patented products, we may not accurately predict all of the countries where patent or trademark protection will ultimately be desirable. If we fail to timely file a patent or trademark application in any such country, we will likely be precluded from doing so at a later date. Failure to adequately pursue and enforce our patent and trademark rights could damage our HEELYS brand, enable others to compete with us and impair our ability to compete effectively. 11 Index In some countries where we have sought patent protection, third parties have challenged the validity, enforceability and scope of our patent rights. Patent laws, and standards of patentability and validity, vary from one country to the next. Patent validity challenges are commonly filed as counterclaims in patent litigation proceedings. There can be no assurance that we will prevail against any challenges. Our HEELYS brand, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to obtain and maintain intellectual property right protection in foreign countries where we derive a large amount of our net sales. A downturn in the economy and adverse trends in retailing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In the current economic environment, consumer confidence is low resulting in a reduction in discretionary consumer spending. When discretionary consumer spending is reduced, purchases of our products may decline. We have noticed caution from our retail customers and this may continue to result in lower than expected orders by some of our customers. Continued uncertainties regarding future economic prospects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. An economic slowdown in any of our major markets could adversely affect the demand for our products and pressure our gross margins due to, among other potential factors, higher promotional spending, recessionary economic cycles, higher interest borrowing rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, increases in commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws or other economic factors that may affect consumer spending or buying habits. Reduced sales by some of our retail customers or independent distributors, along with the possibility of their reduced access to, or inability to access, the credit markets, may result in various retailers or independent distributors experiencing significant financial difficulties. Financial difficulties of retail customers could result in reduced sales to those customers or could result in store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. Higher credit risk relating to receivables from retail customers experiencing financial difficulty may result. An economic downturn in any of our major markets or continued uncertainties regarding future economic prospects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Particularly in Europe, the current sovereign debt crisis affecting Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, and related European financial restructuring efforts, may cause the value of the European currencies, including the Euro, to further deteriorate, which in turn could adversely impact our Euro-denominated sales and working capital. In addition, the European crisis may contribute to instability in global credit markets, and further economic deterioration in Europe could adversely impact demand for our products and product pricing. Because we are a consumer products company, if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand and trends in consumer preferences, our HEELYS brand, net sales, customer relationships and results of operations may be adversely affected. Demand for our products, and for consumer products in general, is subject to rapidly changing consumer demand and trends in consumer preferences. Therefore, our success depends upon our ability to: ● identify, anticipate, understand and respond to these trends in a timely manner; ● design our HEELYS-wheeled footwear to appeal to a wider range of consumers; and ● introduce appealing new products and performance features on a timely basis. We generally must make decisions regarding product designs several months before our products are available for sale, and it can take us up to six months to achieve full production of certain models. Accordingly, at the time we have to make decisions that determine our inventory levels, we cannot be certain that our product offerings will be well received by consumers, in which case we may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount. In addition to offering our standard styles, we may collaborate with certain of our retail customers to develop HEELYS-wheeled footwear styles that these retail customers have the exclusive rights to sell. If these retail customers are unable to sell through these footwear styles we may agree to provide marketing discretionary fund assistance or to accept return of this inventory. Because these styles have been specifically designed for a particular customer, we may not be able to sell the returned inventory or may not be able to sell the returned inventory at or above cost. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products, we could have inventory shortages, which would result in lost sales, delays in shipments to retail customers and independent distributors, strains on our relationships with retail customers and independent distributors and diminished brand loyalty. Even if we introduce appealing new styles and products on a timely basis, we may set prices for our products too high to be successful. A decline in demand for our products, or any failure on our part to satisfy increased demand for our products, could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. 12 Index Our operations are dependent upon the strength of our relationships with our retail customers and independent distributors and their success in selling our products, and a small number of retail customers and independent distributors are responsible for a significant percentage of our net sales. Our success is dependent upon the willingness and ability of our retail customers to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as the success of our independent distributors in developing foreign markets for our products. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, Oxylane Group accounted for approximately 11.7% and 11.9% of our consolidated net sales, respectively. Oxylane Group is a French sporting goods retail chain operating under the name Decathlon. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Privee AG Corporation (formerly AG Corporation) accounted for approximately 17.7% our consolidated net sales. Privee AG Corporation was the Company's independent distributor in Japan. No other retail customer or independent distributor accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales in either of these periods. If any of these, or our other significant retail customers or independent distributors, were to experience financial difficulties, reduce the quantity of our products it sells, discount the retail sales price, request markdown assistance or additional marketing assistance, or stop selling our products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. On November 25, 2010, we notified Privee AG Corporation we would not be renewing our distributor agreement with Privee AG Corporation, which terminated on February 28, 2011. In February 2011, we formed Heeling Sports Japan, K.K., a Japanese corporation and indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, to manage our operations in Japan and to take over the distribution of our products in that country effective March 1, 2011. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our retail customers or independent distributors, and the loss or material reduction in their business with us could result in reduced sales of our products. Our retail customers and independent distributors generally purchase products from us on a purchase order basis and do not have long-term contracts with us. Consequently, with little or no notice and without penalty, our retail customers and independent distributors may terminate their relationship with us or materially reduce the level of their purchases of our products. For example, in 2007 one of our then large retail customers determined that it would no longer sell HEELYS-wheeled footwear. This customer accounted for 7.2% of our total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. If this were to occur with more retail customers or independent distributors who purchase significant quantities of our products, it may be difficult for us to establish substitute relationships in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the manner in which, or mix of retail customers to whom, we distribute our products could impact our gross margin and brand image, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We sell our products through a mix of retail customers. Our Sidewalk Sports™ brand utilizes lower-cost materials and basic designs and sells for less than our other wheeled products. This brand will be sold domestically and in certain international markets. Depending on the reaction to the brand, we may experience a change in the mix of our retail customers. Any material changes in the distribution to, or mix of, our retail customers could adversely affect our gross margin, and these changes, as well as the introduction of the Sidewalk Sports™ brand to our line of products, may negatively affect both our brand image and our reputation with our consumers. A negative change in our gross margin or our brand image and acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our sales of products directly to consumers via our website, which we began in the second quarter of 2010, and the introduction of our Sidewalk Sports™ brand, may alienate certain of our retail customers and result in reduced sales to these customers. Reduced sales to our retail customers could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the financial condition of our retailer customers. Some of our retail customers have experienced financial difficulties in the past. A retail customer experiencing such difficulties will generally not purchase and sell as many of our products as it would under normal circumstances and may cancel orders. In addition, a retail customer experiencing financial difficulties generally increases our exposure to the risk of uncollectible receivables. We extend credit to our retail customers based on our assessment of such customer's financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and reserves, we cannot assure you that this will continue. Financial difficulties on the part of our retail customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Because we outsource all of our manufacturing to a limited number of independent manufacturers, we may face challenges in maintaining a sufficient supply of products to meet demand for our products or experience interruptions in our supply chain. Any shortfall in the supply of our products may decrease our net sales and have an adverse impact on our customer relationships and results of operations. All of our products are produced by independent manufacturers with which we do not have long-term contracts. As such, any of our manufacturers could unilaterally terminate its relationship with us or increase the prices it charges us at any time. A limited number of independent manufacturers produce all of our HEELYS-wheeled footwear. Consequently, if any such manufacturers close, stop producing merchandise for us or greatly increase prices, these actions could result in delayed deliveries to our retail customers, could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, and could require the establishment of new manufacturing relationships, which could require significant additional time and expense. 13 Index Our business could suffer if our independent manufacturers violate legal requirements or fail to conform to generally accepted ethical standards. We expect our independent manufacturers to comply with applicable legal requirements and generally accepted ethical standards for working conditions and other matters. However, we do not control our independent manufacturers or their business practices. If any of our manufacturers were to use forced or indentured labor or child labor, fail to pay compensation in accordance with local law, fail to operate in compliance with local safety regulations or diverge from other applicable legal requirements or business practices generally accepted as ethical, we would take appropriate action, which could result in an interruption in our product supply. In addition, we could suffer negative publicity and damage to our reputation and the value of our HEELYS brand, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. If our independent manufacturers are unable to obtain raw materials, our costs could increase or the delivery of our products could be delayed, which could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. The production capacity of our independent manufacturers is dependent, in part, upon the availability of raw materials. Our manufacturers may experience shortages of raw materials, which could result in increased costs to us or delays in deliveries of our products from our manufacturers. As a result, we could experience cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in our sales prices and profit margins, any of which could harm our net sales and results of operations. Our distribution efforts internationally, including our recent efficiency and cost reduction initiative with respect to our Belgian office, involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. During 2008, we opened an office in Brussels, Belgium, with branch offices in Germany and France, to focus on expanding our international opportunities by working more closely with our distributors, establishing relationships with distributors in new international markets and, in select markets, selling our products direct to retail customers. As part of an initiative to improve efficiency and reduce costs, we began taking steps in the first quarter of 2012 to close our office in Brussels and transition our business operations conducted through that office to our French and German offices. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement this initiative successfully, and we anticipate incurring additional expenses, some of which may be material in the period in which those expenses are incurred. Even if we are successful with this initiative, we may not be able to translate all of the cost savings from this initiative into increased earnings and may face other risks associated with the initiative, including, among other things, declines in employee morale and interruptions in our European business operations. In February 2011, we formed Heeling Sports Japan, K.K., a Japanese corporation and indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, to manage our operations in Japan and to take over the distribution of our products in that country effective March 1, 2011. Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends upon the proper operation of our distribution model (taking into account the absorption by our French and German offices of business operations conducted through our Belgian office) and the development of additional distribution capabilities. This distribution model is subject to a number of risks, including greater difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, unexpected changes in regulatory practices and tariffs, longer collection cycles, seasonality, potentially subjecting our operations to taxes in additional jurisdictions, potential changes in export and tax laws and other risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business outside of the United States. Any of these risks could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. This distribution model may also adversely impact our relationship with our independent distributors. Our takeover of distribution in Japan and the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami-related events in the region could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In February 2011, we formed Heeling Sports Japan, K.K., a Japanese corporation and indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, with offices in Tokyo, to manage our operations in Japan and to take over distribution of our products in that country effective March 1, 2011. Prior to March 1, 2011, our products were distributed in Japan through an independent wholesale distributor. Sales to this independent distributor in Japan accounted for 17.7% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010. We face risks related to the Company’s takeover of distribution of its products in Japan, including our capacity to efficiently distribute our products and the potential for lack of realization of inventory values. Further, the March 2011 earthquake in Japan and related tsunami, nuclear and other disasters, including the impact of infrastructure and other damages and disruptions on retailers, manufacturers and other market participants throughout the region, such as reduced customer spending, have impacted, and may continue to impact, the demand for, and pricing elements of, our products and, as a result, may adversely affect our results of operations. 14 Index Because our products are manufactured in Asia, because we operate offices internationally, and because a portion of our sales activities occur outside of the United States, we are subject to international business, political, operational, financial and economic risks that could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. Conducting business internationally entails numerous risks which could interrupt or otherwise adversely affect our business, including: ● increased transportation costs (the cost of fuel is a significant component of transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins); ● delays and other logistical problems relating to the transportation of goods shipped by ocean freight; ● work stoppages, strikes, lockouts or increased security concerns at seaports; ● difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign operations; ● tariffs, import and export controls and other barriers, such as quotas and local content rules; ● restrictions on the transfer of funds; ● changing economic conditions; ● changes in governmental policies and regulations; ● limitations on the level of intellectual property protections; ● poor or unstable infrastructure of certain foreign countries; ● trade sanctions, political unrest, terrorism, war, epidemics and pandemics; ● expropriation and nationalization; and ● difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions. These factors, and the failure to effectively respond to them, could result in, among other things, poor quality in our products, product shortages, delivery delays, decreased net sales and increased costs. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could harm our results of operations. We pay for our products, and our independent distributors pay us, in U.S. dollars. International sales accounted for approximately 62.8% and 71.6% of our consolidated net sales in 2011 and 2010, respectively. If the U.S. dollar strengthens compared to the currency in the foreign markets where our products are sold, our products will be more expensive in those markets, making them less attractive to consumers. If the U.S. dollar significantly weakens compared to the currency in the foreign markets where our products are produced, our manufacturers could increase the prices they charge us for our products, which could reduce our profitability. There can be no assurance that we can effectively mitigate our foreign exchange risk. We are exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to the translation of the statement of operations and balance sheet of our Belgian subsidiary into U.S. dollars. For example, there is currently an intercompany loan due to our U.S. entity from our Belgian subsidiary which must be repaid in U.S. dollars. Because this intercompany loan is U.S. dollar denominated (and not Euro denominated, which is the functional currency of our Belgian subsidiary), our Belgian subsidiary recognizes a loss if the U.S. dollar strengthens compared to the Euro and recognizes a gain if the U.S. dollar weakens compared to the Euro. This impact is recorded in other income and expense. In February 2011, we formed Heeling Sports Japan, K.K., a Japanese corporation and indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, to manage our operations in Japan and to take over the distribution of our products in that country effective March 1, 2011. We are exposed to similar gains and losses, as with our Belgian subsidiary, resulting from the effect of fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rate between the U.S. dollar (our reporting currency) and the Japanese Yen (the functional currency of our Japanese subsidiary). Similar to our Belgian subsidiary, there is an intercompany loan due to our U.S. entity from our Japanese subsidiary. This intercompany loan is denominated in U.S. dollars as opposed to the Japanese Yen. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Yen, a loss would be recognized, but if the U.S. dollar weakens against the Yen, a gain would be recognized. This impact would be recorded in other income and expense. 15 Index We translate the revenues and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries at the average rate of exchange during the applicable period. As a result, the reported revenues and expenses of our Belgian and Japanese subsidiaries would decrease if the U.S. dollar increased in value in relation to the Euro and Yen. We have not used foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge the profit and loss effects of any foreign currency exchange translation effect. We are dependent on our management and other personnel, and the failure to attract and retain such individuals could adversely affect our operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified managerial and other personnel. Our management and other employees can terminate their employment with us at any time, and we do not maintain key person life insurance. Our inability to attract or retain qualified employees, or the loss of any key employee, could harm our business and results of operations. Since early 2008, we have had significant turnover in our executive officers. In February 2008, Michael G. Staffaroni, our Chief Executive Officer since 2001, and Charles D. Beery, our Senior Vice President—Global Sales since 2001, resigned. In April 2008, Patrick F. Hamner, our Senior Vice President, resigned and entered into a consulting agreement with us which terminated in June 2010. In May 2008, Michael W. Hessong, our Chief Financial Officer resigned and our Board of Directors elected Donald K. Carroll as our Chief Executive Officer. In February 2009, Mr. Carroll resigned as Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Hessong returned as our interim Chief Executive Officer. In July 2009, our Board of Directors elected Thomas C. Hansen to serve as our Chief Executive Officer. In June 2010, Lisa K. Peterson, our Chief Financial Officer resigned and our Board of Directors appointed Craig D. Storey as our Chief Financial Officer. We rely on our independent sales representatives, and if our relationship with our representatives was terminated, it could result in reduced sales of our products. Historically, we sold substantially all of our products domestically through a national sales force of independent sales representatives who were employed by independent sales agencies. Since 2011, our domestic retail accounts have been served by a national sales force of sales representatives employed by a single independent sales agency. In our German and French markets, as well was in Italy, Spain and Portugal, where we sell directly to retailers, we sell our products through independent sales representatives. In our Japanese market, where we began to sell directly to retailers effective March 1, 2011, we sell our products through employed sales staff. We rely on independent sales representatives to provide new customer prospects and market our products to our retail customers. Our independent sales representatives generally do not sell our products exclusively and may terminate their relationships with us at any time with limited notice. Our ability to maintain and increase our sales depends in large part on our success in maintaining relationships with our independent sales representatives on commercially reasonable terms. Any failure to maintain and develop new satisfactory relationships with independent sales representatives, or any failure of our independent sales representatives to effectively market our products, could adversely affect our sales. Negative publicity relating to our products could cause our HEELYS brand to suffer and adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. Various media outlets have reported on injuries suffered by users of our products and have quoted from or referred to medical studies and U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission data relating to injury rates of users of wheeled footwear. This negative publicity, and any future negative publicity, relating to the safety of our products or products similar to ours could cause our HEELYS brand image to suffer and adversely affect our net sales and operating performance. Additional bans on the use of our HEELYS-wheeled footwear due to public safety and liability concerns could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. Various places of business and other institutions, such as shopping malls and schools, have imposed bans on the use of our HEELYS-wheeled footwear due to public safety and liability concerns. If the number of businesses and other institutions imposing such bans increases in the future, consumers could find our HEELYS-wheeled footwear less appealing, which could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. 16 Index If our products fail to comply with U.S. consumer product laws, it could materially affect our gross margin and results of operations. With the passage of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, or "CPSIA," there are new requirements mandated for the textiles and apparel industries. These mandates relate to all products marketed to children 12 years of age and under. Among other requirements, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, or "CPSC," requires a certification and testing of lead paint levels as applied to certain products, along with testing the lead content of the product as a whole. We work with an accredited third party testing service to ensure compliance with all CPSIA requirements and to further product safety goals. We will continue to monitor the situation and intend to abide by all rules and changes made by the CPSC. This could have a negative impact on the cost of our goods and poses a potential risk if we do not adhere to these requirements. We are subject to product liability, warranty and recall claims and our insurance coverage may not cover such claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and adversely affect our business. Due to the inherent risk of injury related to the use of our products, our business exposes us to claims for product liability and warranty claims if our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected, or the use of our products results or is alleged to result in personal injury, disability or death. There can be no assurance we will be able to successfully defend or settle the product liability claims and lawsuits to which we are, and in the future may be, subject. We attach warning labels to our products and packaging relating to safe usage and the risk of injury. However, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the content of the warnings, the placement of them, or both, may be considered inadequate by courts, exposing us to liability. We cannot be certain that our safety warning labels are adequate. Product liability claims could result in us having to expend significant time and expense to defend these claims and to pay, if necessary, settlement amounts or damages, which could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, claims that use of our products resulted in an injury, disability or death could cause our HEELYS brand image and operating performance to suffer by damaging our reputation and prospects and by diverting the time and attention of our management, even if we are not at fault. There can be no assurance our product liability insurance coverage will be adequate, that our insurers will be financially viable when payment of a claim is required or that we will be able to obtain such insurance in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. If any of our products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to recall that product. Any product recall could cause us to incur substantial cost, and irreparably harm our relationships with our customers and our brand image, which could adversely affect our business. If our new products are not accepted by our customers or if we are unable to maintain our margins, it could materially affect our financial performance. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of our new products is uncertain and achieving market acceptance may require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures. We also cannot assure that our new products will have the same or better margins than our current products. The failure of the new products to gain market acceptance, or our inability to maintain our current product margins with the new products, could adversely affect our business, financial performance and brand image. We may not be able to compete effectively, which could have a negative impact on our sales and our business. We compete with companies that sell to young consumers in several different product markets, including footwear, sporting goods and recreational products. These markets are intensely competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, distribution and manufacturing resources than we do, as well as greater brand awareness in the markets in which they operate. We also compete with counterfeit, knockoff and infringing products, which are often sold at lower prices. If we fail to remain competitive with respect to the quality, design, price and timely delivery of products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and such claims may be costly to defend, may require us to pay licensing fees, damages or other amounts and may prevent or limit the manufacture, marketing or sale of our products. Third parties may successfully claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights. While we do not believe any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology or products. For example, because many patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed immediately after they are filed, we could adopt technology without knowledge of a pending patent application, which technology would infringe a third-party patent once that patent is issued. 17 Index Our competitors in both the United States and foreign countries may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for or obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make, market or sell our products. Although we may conduct our own independent review of patents issued to certain third parties, we cannot assure you we will be aware of all pre-existing technology that may subject us to patent litigation. Further, we may adopt a trademark or trade dress that a third party claims infringes their rights in such trademark or trade dress. If we are forced to defend against infringement claims, whether or not such claims are resolved in our favor, we could encounter expensive and time-consuming litigation which could divert the attention of our management and other key personnel from our business operations. Furthermore, if we are found to be infringing intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay licensing fees or damages. In addition, if we are not able to obtain license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all, we may be prevented from manufacturing, marketing or selling our products. As a result, our net sales could be significantly reduced and our cost of sales could be significantly increased, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business. HEELYS-wheeled footwear could become subject to import duties in the United States and Japan, and if we cannot increase our prices to compensate for such duties, it could reduce our profitability. HEELYS-wheeled footwear is currently classified by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and Japan Customs such that we do not pay import duties to the United States or Japan. These customs classifications can be changed at any time, and although we would vigorously oppose any proposed change, there can be no assurance that we would prevail. If the classification for HEELYS-wheeled footwear changed and HEELYS-wheeled footwear became subject to an import duty, it might be difficult to increase our prices to compensate for any such duty, which could reduce our profitability. Expanding our distribution to mass merchants could have a material adverse effect on brand image and results of operations. We primarily sell our products to sporting goods retailers, specialty apparel and footwear retailers, and family footwear stores in an effort to maintain a high-quality image for our HEELYS brand and targeted price points for our products. During the fourth quarter 2011 (Holiday season), the two-wheel version of our new brand, Sidewalk Sports™, was available exclusively in Kmart stores; and, if necessary we may sell certain styles of our product to discount retailers in order to sell excess inventory. Expanded sales of Sidewalk Sports™ or other related brands to mass merchants in the future could negatively affect our HEELYS brand image and our reputation with consumers, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly variations in our net sales and net income, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, substantial seasonal and quarterly variations in our net sales and net income. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including, among other things, the amount of inventory carried by our retailers, timing of holidays and advertising initiatives and changes in our product mix. In addition, variations in weather conditions may significantly affect our results of operations. As a result of these seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, we believe comparisons of our operating results between different quarters within a single year are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. Any seasonal or quarterly fluctuations that we report in the future may differ from the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Improvements to our information technology systems may be inadequate, which could adversely affect our ability to operate effectively. As our business needs change, we could experience difficulties associated with our information technology systems. If we experience difficulties in our information technology systems or experience system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our information technology systems to respond to changes in our business or operating model, our ability to operate effectively and our internal controls could be adversely affected. Disruptions to our information technology systems could adversely affect our ability to operate effectively. During 2011, we migrated our information technology systems, located in our Texas headquarters, from Microsoft Solomon to Microsoft Navision. Our European operations are currently, and our operations in Japan will also be, operating on the Microsoft Navision platform. We are a highly automated business and disruption in, or failure of, our information technology systems could cause delays in completing sales. If we experience difficulties or disruptions in our information technology systems or experience system failures, for any reason, including acts of God, terrorism, or if we are unable to successfully modify or upgrade our information technology systems to respond to changes in our business, our ability to operate effectively and our internal controls could be adversely affected. 18 Index We may have difficulty identifying and successfully integrating acquisitions into our business and any acquisitions we make could result in adverse consequences. As part of our business strategy we may make acquisitions. The pursuit of acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur significant expenses identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. We have limited experience acquiring other businesses and may not be able to successfully integrate any acquired operations with our business or effectively manage the combined business following an acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition due to any of the following factors: ● unanticipated costs associated with making the acquisition and operating the acquired business; ● harm to our business relationships with independent manufacturers, retail customers and independent distributors; ● loss of key employees of the acquired business; or ● difficulties associated with entering product categories or markets in which we have little or no prior experience. If we experience any of the difficulties noted above, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have experienced volatility in our stock price and it may fluctuate in the future. Therefore, you may be unable to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Volatility in the trading price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares of our common stock at prices equal to or greater than your purchase price. Such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: ● our operating and financial performance and prospects; ● our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; ● the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; ● changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry; ● strategic actions by us or our competitors; ● new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; ● changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles ● changes in general economic conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including such changes resulting from war or acts of terrorism; and ● sales of our common stock. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the trading price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently occur irrespective of the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the trading price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our business. Existing stockholders significantly influence our corporate governance. As of December 31, 2011, our executive officers, key employees, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 35% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, Capital Southwest Venture Corporation, or "CSVC," which owns approximately 33.8% of our common stock, has the contractual right to designate (i) two nominees for director to be included in management's slate of director nominees, so long as it owns at least 15% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and (ii) one such nominee so long as it owns at least 10%, but less than 15%, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. CSVC's parent company is Capital Southwest Corporation ("CSC"). The Chairman of our Board of Directors is the President and CEO of CSC. In addition, one of our directors is a Vice President of CSC. As a result, through its designees, CSVC may significantly influence our corporate governance. 19 Index Our Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the value of an investment in our common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws and Delaware corporate law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management. Among other things, these provisions: ● authorize our board of directors, without prior stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with rights, privileges and preferences, including voting rights, senior to those of our common stock; ● prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; ● establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and ● impose restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions could discourage proxy contests, make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions and may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. Any delay or prevention of a change in control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could deprive you of the opportunity to sell your common stock at a price in excess of the prevailing trading price and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. As a public company, we are required to meet periodic reporting requirements under SEC rules and regulations. Complying with federal securities laws as a public company is expensive. Any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our common stock. SEC rules require, as a publicly traded company, that we file periodic reports containing our financial statements within a specified time following the completion of quarterly and annual periods. We may experience difficulty in meeting the SEC's reporting requirements. Any failure by us to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner could harm our reputation and reduce the trading price of our common stock and cause sanctions or other actions to be taken by the SEC. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses. We may identify deficiencies which would have to be remediated to satisfy the SEC rules for certification of our internal control over financial reporting. As a consequence, we may have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. The existence of a material weakness would preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting it may negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 