Item 1A. Risk Factors. Discussed below are the more significant risk factors relating to Spectra Energy. Reductions in demand for natural gas and low market prices of commodities affect Spectra Energy’s operations and cash flows. Declines in demand for natural gas as a result of economic downturns and conservation efforts in Spectra Energy’s gas service territories may reduce overall gas deliveries and reduce Spectra Energy’s cash flows, especially if its industrial customers reduce production and, therefore, consumption of gas. Spectra Energy’s gas gathering and processing businesses may experience a decline in the volume of natural gas gathered and processed at their plants, resulting in lower revenues and cash flows, as lower economic output reduces energy demand. Revenues and cash flows would also be affected by lower market prices of natural gas and NGLs. Lower demand for natural gas and lower prices for natural gas and NGLs result from multiple factors that affect the markets where Spectra Energy operates, including: • weather conditions, including abnormally mild winter or summer weather that cause lower energy usage for heating or cooling purposes, respectively; • supply of and demand for energy commodities, including any decreases in the production of natural gas which could negatively affect Spectra Energy’s processing business due to lower throughput; • capacity and transmission service into, or out of, Spectra Energy’s markets; and • petrochemical demand for NGLs. The lack of availability of natural gas resources may cause customers to contract with alternative service providers, which could materially adversely affect Spectra Energy’s revenues, earnings and cash flows. Spectra Energy’s natural gas businesses are dependent on the continued availability of natural gas production and reserves. Prices for natural gas, regulatory limitations, or a shift in supply sources could adversely affect development of additional reserves and production that is accessible by Spectra Energy’s pipeline, gathering, processing and distribution assets. Lack of commercial quantities of natural gas available to these assets will cause customers to contract with alternative service suppliers, thereby reducing their reliance on Spectra Energy’s services, which in turn would materially adversely affect Spectra Energy’s revenues, earnings and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Investments and projects located in Canada expose Spectra Energy to fluctuations in currency rates that may adversely affect results of operations and cash flows. Spectra Energy is exposed to foreign currency risk from investments and operations in Canada. As of December 31, 2007, a 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rate of the Canadian dollar would result in an estimated loss on the translation of Canadian currency earnings of $31 million. The consolidated balance sheet would be negatively affected by $511 million currency translation through the cumulative translation adjustment in accumulated other comprehensive income. Natural gas gathering and processing operations are subject to commodity price risk which could result in losses in earnings and reduced cash flows. Spectra Energy has gathering and processing operations that consist of contracts to buy and sell commodities, including contracts for natural gas, NGLs and other commodities that are settled by the delivery of the commodity or cash. Spectra Energy is primarily exposed to market price fluctuations of NGL prices in the Field Services segment and to frac-spreads in the Empress operations in Canada. Since NGL prices historically track crude oil prices, Spectra Energy discloses its NGL price sensitivities in terms of crude oil price changes. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2007, at Spectra Energy’s forecasted NGL-to-oil price relationships, a $10 per barrel move in oil prices would affect Spectra Energy’s annual pre-tax earnings by approximately $135 million in 2008 ($120 million from Field Services and $15 million from U.S. Transmission). With respect to the frac-spread risk related to Empress processing and NGL marketing activities in Western Canada, as of December 31, 2007, a $0.50 change in the difference between the btu-equivalent price of propane (used as a proxy for Empress’ NGL production) and the price of natural gas in Alberta, Canada would affect Spectra Energy’s pre-tax earnings by approximately $16 million on an annual basis in 2008. These hypothetical calculations consider estimated production levels, but do not consider other potential effects that might result from such changes in commodity prices. The actual effect of commodity price changes on Spectra Energy’s earnings could be significantly different than these estimates. Spectra Energy’s business is subject to extensive regulation that affects operations and costs. Spectra Energy’s U.S. assets and operations are subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities, including regulation by the FERC and by various authorities under federal, state and local environmental laws. Spectra Energy’s natural gas assets and operations in Canada are also subject to regulation by federal, provincial and local authorities including the NEB and the OEB and by various federal and provincial authorities under environmental laws. Regulation affects almost every aspect of Spectra Energy’s business, including, among other things, the ability to determine terms and rates for services provided by some of its businesses, make acquisitions, construct, expand and operate facilities, issue equity or debt securities, and pay dividends. In addition, regulators in both the U.S. and Canada have taken actions to strengthen market forces in the gas pipeline industry, which have led to increased competition. In a number of key markets, natural gas pipeline and storage operators are facing competitive pressure from a number of new industry participants, such as alternative suppliers as well as traditional pipeline competitors. Increased competition driven by regulatory changes could have a material effect on Spectra Energy’s business, earnings, financial condition and cash flows. Execution of Spectra Energy’s capital projects subjects Spectra Energy to construction risks, increases in labor costs and materials, and other risks that may adversely affect financial results. A significant portion of Spectra Energy’s growth is accomplished through the construction of new pipelines and storage facilities as well as the expansion of existing facilities. Construction of these facilities is subject to various regulatory, development and operational risks, including: • the ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits by regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on acceptable terms • the availability of skilled labor, equipment, and materials to complete expansion projects; 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project, • impediments on Spectra Energy’s ability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis and on acceptable terms; and • the ability to construct projects within anticipated costs, including the risk of cost overruns resulting from inflation or increased costs of equipment, materials, labor, or other factors beyond Spectra Energy’s control, that may be material. Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding, delay its completion or increase its anticipated costs. As a result, new facilities may not achieve expected investment return, which could adversely affect results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Transmission and storage, distribution, and gathering and processing activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise affect operations. There are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent in natural gas transmission and storage, distribution, and gathering and processing activities, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in significant injury, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, and impairment of operations, any of which could result in substantial losses to Spectra Energy. For pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater. Spectra Energy does not maintain insurance coverage against all of these risks and losses, and any insurance coverage it might maintain may not fully cover the damages caused by those risks and losses. Therefore, should any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on Spectra Energy’s business, earnings, financial condition and cash flows. Spectra Energy is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, compliance with which requires significant capital expenditures, can increase cost of operations, and may affect or limit business plans, or expose Spectra Energy to environmental liabilities. Spectra Energy is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating and other costs. These laws and regulations generally require Spectra Energy to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures, including expenditures for cleanup costs and damages arising out of contaminated properties, and failure to comply with environmental regulations may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting operating assets. Spectra Energy may not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for its operating assets or development projects. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, if Spectra Energy fails to obtain or comply with them or if environmental laws or regulations change and become more stringent, the operation of facilities or the development of new facilities could be prevented, delayed or become subject to additional costs. No assurance can be made that the costs that will be incurred to comply with environmental regulations in the future will not have a material effect. Canada is a signatory to and has ratified the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. In 2007, the Province of Alberta adopted legislation which require existing large emitters (facilities releasing 100,000 tons or more of GHG emissions annually) to reduce their annual emissions intensity by 12% beginning July 1, 2007. The effect of this Alberta legislation did not materially affect consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Should the federal and provincial governments in Canada implement programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Spectra Energy’s businesses in 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Canada may be obligated to reduce emissions, purchase emission credits and/or pay a tax on carbon emissions. Due to the substantial uncertainty regarding what additional plans, if any, federal and provincial governments in Canada will implement and whether these plans will apply to Spectra Energy’s facilities, Spectra Energy cannot estimate the potential effects of greenhouse gas regulation in Canada on business, earnings, financial condition and cash flows. Spectra Energy is involved in numerous legal proceedings, the outcome of which are uncertain, and resolution adverse to Spectra Energy could negatively affect results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Spectra Energy is subject to numerous legal proceedings. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and Spectra Energy cannot predict the outcome of individual matters with assurance. It is reasonably possible that the final resolution of some of the matters in which Spectra Energy is involved could require additional expenditures, in excess of established reserves, over an extended period of time and in a range of amounts that could have a material effect on cash flows and results of operations. Spectra Energy relies on access to short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets to finance capital requirements and support liquidity needs, and access to those markets can be adversely affected, particularly if Spectra Energy or its rated subsidiaries are unable to maintain an investment-grade credit rating, which could adversely affect cash flows or restrict business. Spectra Energy’s business is financed to a large degree through debt. The maturity and repayment profile of debt used to finance investments often does not correlate to cash flows from assets. Accordingly, Spectra Energy relies on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from operations and to fund investments originally financed through debt. Spectra Energy’s senior unsecured long-term debt is currently rated investment-grade by various rating agencies. If the rating agencies were to rate Spectra Energy or its rated subsidiaries below investment-grade, such entity’s borrowing costs would increase, perhaps significantly. In addition, the entity would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. Spectra Energy maintains revolving credit facilities to provide for borrowings, back-up for commercial paper programs and/or letters of credit at various entities. These facilities typically include financial covenants which limit the amount of debt that can be outstanding as a percentage of the total capital for the specific entity. Failure to maintain these covenants at a particular entity could preclude that entity from issuing commercial paper or letters of credit or borrowing under the revolving credit facility and could require other affiliates to immediately pay down any outstanding drawn amounts under other revolving credit agreements which could adversely affect cash flow or restrict businesses. Furthermore, if Spectra Energy’s short-term debt rating were to be below tier 2 (e.g. A-2/P-2, S&P and Moody’s, respectively), access to the commercial paper market could be significantly limited. If Spectra Energy is not able to access capital at competitive rates, its ability to finance operations and implement its strategy may be adversely affected. Restrictions on Spectra Energy’s ability to access financial markets may also affect its ability to execute its business plan as scheduled. An inability to access capital may limit Spectra Energy’s ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions that it may otherwise rely on for future growth. Any downgrade or other event negatively affecting the credit ratings of Spectra Energy’s subsidiaries could make their costs of borrowing higher or access to funding sources more limited, which in turn could increase Spectra Energy’s need to provide liquidity in the form of capital contributions or loans to such subsidiaries, thus reducing the liquidity and borrowing availability of the consolidated group. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Spectra Energy may be unable to secure long-term transportation agreements, which could expose transportation volumes and revenues to increased volatility. In the future, Spectra Energy may be unable to secure long-term transportation agreements for its gas transmission business as a result of economic factors, lack of commercial gas supply to its systems, increased competition, or changes in regulation. Without long-term transportation agreements, Spectra Energy’s revenues and contract volumes will be exposed to increased volatility. The inability to secure these agreements would materially adversely affect business, earnings, financial condition or cash flows. Market based natural gas storage operations are subject to commodity price volatility which could result in variability in earnings and cash flows. Spectra Energy has market based rates for some of its storage operations and sells its storage services based on natural gas market spreads and volatility. If natural gas market spreads or volatility deviate from historical norms or there is significant growth in the amount of storage capacity available to natural gas markets, Spectra Energy’s approach to managing its market based storage contract portfolio may not protect it from significant variations in storage revenues. Native land claims have been asserted in British Columbia and Alberta which could affect future access to public lands, the success of which claims could have a significant adverse affect on Spectra Energy’s natural gas production and processing. Certain aboriginal groups have claimed aboriginal and treaty rights over a substantial portion of public lands on which Spectra Energy’s facilities in British Columbia and Alberta, and the gas supply areas served by those facilities, are located. The existence of these claims, which range from the assertion of rights of limited use to aboriginal title, has given rise to some uncertainty regarding access to public lands for future development purposes. Such claims, if successful, could have a significant adverse effect on natural gas production in British Columbia and Alberta which could have a material adverse effect on the volume of natural gas processed at Spectra Energy’s facilities and of NGLs and other products transported in the associated pipelines. Spectra Energy cannot predict the outcome of these claims or the effect they may ultimately have on business and operations. Protecting against potential terrorist activities requires significant capital expenditures and a successful terrorist attack could adversely affect Spectra Energy’s business. Acts of terrorism and any possible reprisals as a consequence of any action by the United States and its allies could be directed against companies operating in the United States. This risk is particularly great for companies, like Spectra Energy, operating in any energy infrastructure industry that handles volatile gaseous and liquid hydrocarbons. The potential for terrorism has subjected Spectra Energy’s operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on business. In particular, Spectra Energy may experience increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security for its facilities and pipelines, such as additional physical facility and pipeline security and additional security personnel. Moreover, any physical damage to high profile facilities resulting from acts of terrorism may not be covered, or covered fully, by insurance. Spectra Energy may be required to expend material amounts of capital to repair any facilities, the expenditure of which could adversely affect cash flow and business. Due to changes in Canadian tax laws, Spectra Energy may not be able to fully realize its goal of utilizing tax-efficient structures to improve its cost of capital, optimize returns on assets and finance portfolio growth. Spectra Energy’s business strategy includes utilizing tax-efficient structures, such as master limited partnerships (MLPs) and Canadian income trusts. While the tax treatment for MLPs has not changed, on 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements October 31, 2006, the Minister of Finance of Canada announced changes to the income tax treatment of “flow-through entities” in Canada, including income trusts. Legislation has now been enacted whereby income trusts will be subject to tax at corporate rates on the taxable portion of their distributions. Further, unitholders will be treated as if they have received a dividend equal to the taxable portion of their distributions, and will be taxed accordingly. These proposed changes will generally apply beginning in the 2007 taxation year for trusts that begin to be publicly-traded after October 2006, but would only apply beginning with the 2011 taxation year to those income trusts, such as the Income Fund, that were already publicly traded at the time of the announcement. Such changes could have an adverse effect on Spectra Energy’s ability to fully implement its business strategy which may affect its access to capital and the ability to maximize returns on the assets it might hold, and result in an inability to finance portfolio growth through the use of this vehicle. Spectra Energy might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances as a result of its separation from Duke Energy. To preserve the tax-free treatment to Duke Energy of the distribution of Spectra Energy to the shareholders of Duke Energy, under the Tax Matters agreement that Spectra Energy entered into with Duke Energy, for the two-year period following the distribution, Spectra Energy may be prohibited, except in specified circumstances, from issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs, acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities, or engaging in other actions or transactions that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the distribution. These restrictions may limit Spectra Energy’s ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of its business. Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors affecting pension plan costs could unfavorably affect Spectra Energy’s earnings and liquidity. Spectra Energy’s costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and Spectra Energy’s required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. Without sustained growth in the pension plan investments over time to increase the value of Spectra Energy’s plan assets, and depending upon the other factors impacting Spectra Energy’s costs as listed above, Spectra Energy could be required to fund its plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material effect on Spectra Energy’s earnings and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 