1A Risk Factors 13 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 2 Properties 21 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 22 PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 25 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 44 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 44 Item 9B Other Information 44 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of the Registrant 45 Item 11 Executive Compensation 45 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 45 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 45 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 45 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 46 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements include statements regarding the intent and belief or current expectations of Essex Rental Corp. (“Essex”) and its management team and may be identified by the use of words like "anticipate", "believe", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "may", "plan", "will", "should", "seek", the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Readers are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from Essex’s expectations include, without limitation, the continued ability of Essex to successfully execute its business plan, the possibility of a change in demand for the products and services that Essex provides (through its operating subsidiaries, Essex Crane Rental Corp., Coast Crane Company and Coast Crane Ltd.), intense competition which may require us to lower prices or offer more favorable terms of sale, our reliance on third party suppliers, our indebtedness which could limit our operational and financial flexibility, global economic factors including interest rates, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and regulatory changes, our dependence on our management team and key personnel, as well as other relevant risks. The factors listed here are not exhaustive. Many of these uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and beyond management’s control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results or events. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are discussed below under Item 1A – Risk Factors. Essex assumes no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking information in this Annual Report whether to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in future operating results or financial conditions, or otherwise. PART I As used in this Annual Report, references to “the Company” or “Essex” or to “we,” “us” or “our” refer to Essex Rental Corp., together with its consolidated subsidiaries, Essex Holdings, LLC, Essex Crane Rental Corp., Essex Finance Corp., CC Acquisition Holding Corp., Coast Crane Company and Coast Crane Ltd., unless the context otherwise requires. Item 1. Business Background Essex Rental Corp. (formerly Hyde Park Acquisition Corp.) was incorporated in Delaware on August 21, 2006 as a blank check company whose objective was to effect a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition or other similar business combination with an operating business. Our activities from our inception through October 31, 2008 were limited to completing our initial public offering and completing a business combination. On October 31, 2008, we acquired Essex Crane Rental Corp., which we refer to as Essex Crane, through the acquisition of substantially all of the ownership interests of Essex Crane’s parent company, Essex Holdings, LLC, which we refer to as Holdings. Essex Crane is a leading provider of lattice-boom crawler crane and attachment rental services and possesses one of the largest fleets of such equipment in the United States (U.S.). For more information regarding the acquisition of Holdings and Essex Crane, see “Business Combinations – Acquisition of Holdings and Its Subsidiary Essex Crane” below. From October 31, 2008 until November 24, 2010, we conducted substantially all of our operations through Essex Crane. On November 24, 2010 we acquired substantially all of the assets, and assumed certain liabilities (the “Coast Acquisition”) of Coast Crane Company (“Coast Liquidating Co.”), a leading provider of specialty lifting solutions and crane rental services on the West Coast of the United States. The assets acquired included all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Coast Crane Ltd., a British Columbia corporation, through which Coast Liquidating Co. conducted its operations in Canada. References to “Coast Crane” in this Annual Report mean Coast Crane Company, a Delaware corporation, formerly known as CC Bidding Corp. (“CCBC”), through which we operate the business and assets acquired in the Coast Acquisition. For more information regarding the Coast Acquisition, see Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements and “Business Combinations – Acquisition of the Assets of Coast Crane Company and Subsidiary”, below. 1 We conduct substantially all of our operations through Essex Crane and Coast Crane. Business Combinations Acquisition of Holdings and Its Subsidiary Essex Crane On October 31, 2008, we acquired Essex Crane through the acquisition of substantially all of the ownership of Holdings. The purchase agreement provided for a gross purchase price of $210.0 million, less the amount of Essex Crane’s indebtedness outstanding as of the closing (which was refinanced as of the closing date with a credit facility made available to Essex Crane as of the closing date), the $5.0 million stated value of the membership interests in Holdings not acquired in the acquisition and the amount of certain other liabilities of Essex Crane as of the closing of the acquisition. The purchase price was subject to adjustment at and after the closing based on Essex Crane’s working capital as of the closing date and crane purchases and sales by Essex Crane prior to the closing date. The adjusted purchase price of the Holdings acquisition was $215.5 million, (including the amount of Essex’s indebtedness outstanding under Essex Crane’s credit facility immediately prior to the closing). The ownership interests in Holdings that were not acquired by the Company in the acquisition were retained by the management members of Holdings, including Ronald Schad, our Chief Executive Officer, and Martin Kroll, our Chief Financial Officer, and are referred to throughout this annual report on Form 10-K as the “Retained Interests”. The Retained Interests are exchangeable at the option of the holder for an aggregate of 632,911 shares of our common stock. The Retained Interests do not carry any voting rights and are entitled to distributions from Holdings only if the Company pays a dividend to its stockholders, in which case a distribution on account of the Retained Interests will be made on an “as exchanged” basis. We granted certain registration rights to the holders of the Retained Interests with respect to the shares of our common stock issuable upon exchange of the Retained Interests and, in February 2011, a registration statement covering the resale of such shares was declared effective. Acquisition of the Assets of Coast Crane Company and Subsidiary On November 24, 2010, through CCBC, we acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Coast Liquidating Co., which consisted of all of the assets used in the operation of its specialty lifting solutions and crane rental services business including all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Coast Crane Ltd., a wholly-owned British Columbia corporation, through which Coast Liquidating Co. conducted its operations in Canada. The purchase agreement provided for a gross purchase price of $103.2 million which included net cash payments of $82.5 million and the assumption of certain liabilities of Coast Crane and its subsidiary as of the closing of the acquisition. For additional information regarding the gross purchase price paid in the Coast Acquisition, including related transaction expenses, see Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. The Coast Acquisition was financed with $14.2 million of proceeds from the issuance of 3.3 million shares of common stock, cash of $20.3 million, primarily funded by Essex Crane’s revolving credit facility, proceeds of $49.6 million from a new revolving credit facility and the assumption of certain liabilities and indebtedness outstanding of Coast Crane and its subsidiary as of the closing date of approximately $20.7 million. Business Overview Through our operating subsidiaries, Essex Crane and Coast Crane, we are one of North America's largest providers of lifting equipment (including lattice-boom crawler cranes, truck cranes and rough terrain cranes, tower cranes, and other lifting equipment) used in a wide array of construction projects. In addition, we provide product support including installation, maintenance, repair, and parts and services for our equipment provided to customers and customer owned equipment. With a fleet of over 1,000 cranes and other construction equipment and customer service and support, we supply a wide variety of innovative lifting solutions for construction projects related to power generation, petro-chemical, refineries, water treatment and purification, bridges, highways, hospitals, shipbuilding, offshore oil fabrication and industrial plants, and commercial and residential construction. We rent our equipment “bare,” meaning without supplying an operator and, in exchange for a fee, make arrangements for the transportation and delivery of equipment. Once the crane is delivered and erected on the customer’s site, inspected and determined to be operating properly by the customer’s crane operator and management, most of the maintenance and repair costs are the responsibility of the customer while the equipment is on rent. This business model allows us to minimize our headcount and operating costs including reduced liability related to operator error and provides the customer with a more flexible situation where they control the crane and the operator’s work schedule. 2 Through a network of sixteen main service centers, other smaller service locations and several remote storage yards, complemented by a geographically dispersed highly skilled staff of sales and maintenance service professionals, we serve a variety of customers engaged in construction and maintenance projects. We have significantly diversified the end-markets that we serve in recent years, including through the Coast Acquisition, to avoid over-exposure to any one sector of the construction market. We use our significant investment in modern enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) systems and business process methods to help our management assimilate information more quickly than others in our industry, and to provide management with real time visibility of the factors that must be effectively managed to achieve our goals. Our end-markets are characterized by major construction projects that often have long lead times. Management believes that these longer lead times, coupled with most contracts having rental periods of between 4 and 18 months for lifting equipment with heavier capacities, provide them more visibility over future project pipelines and revenues. Although Essex Crane and Coast Crane experience some overlap in the customers and projects that they serve, they are distinct from one another in the equipment comprising their fleets. Essex Crane Essex Crane is a leading provider of lattice-boom crawler crane and attachment rental services and possesses one of the largest fleets of such equipment in the United States. Over 51 years of operation, since its founding in 1960, Essex Crane has steadily grown from a small, family-owned crane rental company to a professionally managed company that today is one of the leading players in its industry offering lattice boom crawler rental services to a variety of customers, industries and regions mainly throughout the United States and Canada. Essex Crane’s fleet size currently stands at more than 350 lattice-boom crawler cranes and various types of attachments which are made available to clients depending on their lifting requirements, such as weight, pick and carry aspects, reach and angle of reach. The fleet’s combination of crawler cranes and attachments is diverse by lift capacity and capability, allowing Essex Crane to meet the crawler crane requirements of its engineering and construction firm customer base. Coast Crane Coast Crane is a market leader for innovative lifting solutions throughout Western North America, Alaska, Hawaii, Guam and the South Pacific. Through Coast Crane, we provide both used and new tower cranes, boom trucks, rough terrain cranes and other lifting equipment to customers in the infrastructure, energy, crane rigger/operator, and municipal, commercial and industrial construction sectors. Coast Crane’s operations are headquartered in Seattle, Washington and its products are rented and sold through a regional network including 11 branch locations. According to the industry publication American Cranes and Transport, Coast Crane is one of the largest crane service providers within its core rental equipment categories. In addition to providing crane rental services, Coast Crane is a leading crane distributor of self-erecting tower cranes, rough terrain cranes, boom trucks and all terrain cranes in its West Coast territories. Coast Crane enjoys strong working partnerships with leading crane and lifting manufacturers in the U.S. Coast Crane has exclusive distribution relationships with such manufacturers for certain territories on the West Coast and Coast Crane provides after-sale spare parts and services to customers to whom it sells equipment as well as to customers who purchase equipment from other sources. Coast Crane implemented the ERP system platform that Essex Crane uses with certain modifications during 2011. Products and Services; Operating Segments Our principal products and services, as grouped within the Company’s three defined operating segments, are described below. 3 Equipment Rental Segment We offer for rent crawler cranes and attachments, rough terrain cranes, boom trucks, tower cranes, and other construction related rental equipment. Most attachments are rented separately and increase either the lifting capacity or the reach capabilities of the base crawler cranes and tower cranes. We also offer transportation, rigging and repair and maintenance services while equipment is on rent. We rent our fleet of over 1,000 cranes and attachments and other lifting equipment to a variety of engineering and construction customers under contracts, most of which have rental periods of between 4 and 18 months. Boom trucks and other smaller equipment may be rented as frequently as daily. The contracts typically provide for an agreed rental rate and a specified rental period. The revenue from crane and attachment rentals is primarily driven by rental rates (which are typically higher for the more expensive cranes with heavier lifting capacities than less expensive cranes with lower lifting capacities) charged to customers and the fleet utilization rate. Rental revenue is recognized as earned in accordance with the terms of the relevant rental agreement on a pro rata daily basis. Transportation services revenue is derived from the management of the logistics process by which our rental equipment is transported to and from customers’ construction sites, including the contracting of third party trucking for such transportation. Transportation revenue is earned under equipment rental agreements on a gross basis representing both the third-party provider’s fee for transportation and our fee for managing these transportation services and they are matched with the associated costs, and related costs for amounts paid to third party providers. The key drivers of transportation revenue are crane and attachment and other lifting equipment utilization rates and average contract lengths. Shorter average contract durations and high utilization rates generally result in higher requirements for transportation of equipment and resulting revenue. The distance that equipment has to move between different jobsites and the type of equipment being moved (number of truckloads) are also major drivers of transportation revenue and associated costs. Transportation revenue is recognized upon completion of the transportation of equipment. While crawler cranes or attachments, tower cranes, rough terrain cranes, boom trucks or other equipment are on rent, much of the repair and maintenance work is paid for by the customer. We perform a portion of the repair and maintenance work and recognize revenues for such services to the extent they are the customer’s responsibility. This category of revenues also includes providing certain services while erecting the equipment during initial assembly or disassembly of the equipment at the end of the rental. In the ordinary course of business, we sell used cranes and attachments and other lifting equipment to optimize the combination of crane models and lifting capacities available in our rental fleet to match perceived market demands and opportunities. On average, we have historically achieved sale prices for equipment in excess of the appraised value. This is due to the long useful life of the crane and attachment fleet, the conditions prevailing in the secondary market and the high content of engineered high-strength steel included in these fleet assets. Used rental equipment sales are recognized upon acceptance by the customer or the execution of a definitive sales agreement stipulating the date of transferring the risk of ownership. The rate at which we replace used equipment with new equipment depends on a number of factors, including changing general economic conditions, growth opportunities and the need to adjust fleet mix to meet customer requirements and demand. Equipment Distribution Segment We offer a variety of construction equipment products for sale including tower cranes, boom trucks, rough terrain cranes and other lifting equipment used in the construction industry. The revenue from retail equipment sales is primarily driven by the level of construction activity in a particular geographic region. Equipment sales revenue is recognized at the time ownership transfers, which is generally based on delivery and/or inspection and acceptance of the equipment in accordance with the terms of the corresponding agreement. Our equipment distribution operations are conducted through our Coast Crane subsidiary. Parts and Service Segment We are a parts distributor for various lifting equipment manufacturers and routinely sell parts to our customers in the construction industry. We also provide repairs and maintenance services for customers that own their own equipment and request our services at one of our service center locations. Our target customers for these ancillary services are our current rental customers, customers that own their own equipment and those who purchase new and used equipment from us. Key drivers for repair and maintenance revenue are the general construction activity in a given geographic region and our skilled mechanics. Repair and maintenance revenue is recognized as such services are performed. Parts revenue is recognized at the time of sale. Our parts and services operations are conducted through our Coast Crane subsidiary. In summary, 65.7% of total revenues were derived from our equipment rental segment for the year ended December 31, 2011, 15.9% through our equipment distribution segment and 18.4% through our parts and service segment. More specifically, 46.8% of total revenues were generated through equipment rentals, 15.9% through retail equipment sales, 7.3% through used rental equipment sales, 11.0% through retail part sales, 6.0% through rental related transportation services and 5.6% through repair and maintenance services provided with respect to cranes on rent and 7.4% through repair and maintenance services provided otherwise. 4 US Crane and Lifting Equipment Rental Industry According to the Rental Equipment Register and the American Rental Association, the US equipment rental sector has grown from a minor industry in 1982 to an industry generating over $30.0 billion in annual revenues in 2008. Driving this growth has been an increase in crane and attachment penetration rates with engineering and construction firms, the result of a fundamental shift in contractor preferences to rent versus purchasing equipment based on the following factors: ·focus on core construction services businesses rather than equipment ownership; ·access to broader pool of equipment through rental; and ·an efficient use of capital as rental equipment has minimal equipment downtime compared to owned equipment, which reduces servicing and storage costs between projects. The following table summarizes descriptions of the types of equipment that we offer for rent: Equipment Type Crawler cranes Other cranes (all terrain, rough terrain, tower and boom truck) Small equipment (e.g., aerial work platforms, forklifts, etc.) Economic life 50 plus years with proper maintenance due to higher strength steel percentage content 15-30 years due to higher relative machinery percentage content Often 10 years or less Typical Projects Large infrastructure components requiring heavy lifts: bridges, power plants, municipal infrastructure Range from residential condominium to large infrastructure Range from single house builds to large construction projects End markets Primarily large infrastructure and industrial Residential construction to large infrastructure Residential construction to large infrastructure Residual value High Medium Medium to low Within the U.S. heavy lifting crane rental (including crawler cranes, rough terrain cranes and tower cranes) sector operators either provide cranes “bare” or “manned.” Bare rental involves the provision of cranes without an operator, the crane being operated by an employee of the customer. Bare rental is suited to construction firms with access to trained staff to operate the heavy machinery. Manned rental involves the provision of an operator with the crane and is often suited to customers unable or unwilling to provide an operator of their own and is often more common with customers who perform shorter duration work. Manned rental involves the maintenance of adequate staffing levels to ensure equipment can be rented as required. We operate a bare rental model, because we believe bare rental offers an opportunity for higher returns on invested capital primarily due to decreased liability exposure and a more efficient operating platform and business model. Bare rental allows us to operate the business with significantly less human resources and costs associated with those resources than if we were to operate a manned operation. The primary disadvantage of renting cranes on a bare basis is that we forego a portion of the rental market associated with construction firms that prefer to rent equipment manned. Operations Equipment Rental Segment We maintain one of the largest fleets of cranes and attachments and other lifting equipment in North America. Rental revenues generated from the rental of equipment were $42.0 million in 2011 or approximately 46.8% of total revenue. Equipment is rented to customers under a contract (contracts range from 4-18 months in general for the majority of our equipment), which specifies a constant monthly rate for each piece of equipment over the period of the contract. In 2011, the average monthly crawler crane rental rate was $15,781 and crane utilization was 39.8% on “days” basis. Crane utilization for our lower lifting capacity equipment, including rough terrain cranes, boomtrucks, self-erecting tower cranes, city and other tower cranes, and forklifts and other equipment, was 62.0%, 54.0%, 24.4%, 40.1% and 39.9%, respectively. For a discussion of the “days” method of measuring crane utilization, see “Fleet Overview” below. 5 Once we and a potential customer communicate regarding the customer’s need for an equipment rental, we confirm that an appropriate piece of equipment is available. We then prepare and deliver a written rental quote to the customer. The customer reviews the quote and, if acceptable, places an order. Essex Rental’s on-line, real time information system provides visibility of the entire rental fleet for the sales team including the cranes’ lease information and expected availability. All sales team quote and order activity is also available on the same information system and viewable by appropriate sales, operations, and management personnel. Upon a review of the order including a check of the customer’s credit and continued equipment availability, an order confirmation and a rental agreement are sent to the customer. Once a signed rental agreement and other required documentation (including insurance certificates) are received, the order is authorized for shipment to the customer. Our operations team sees both the quote and order activity and responds appropriately to confirm the readiness of the required equipment for shipment to the new rental, but does not begin shipping it until the lease is authorized. Once the equipment is delivered to the customer’s site, our representative inspects the equipment with the customer and an inspection report is signed verifying that the equipment was correctly delivered in accordance with the lease agreement. The rental period for the equipment usually begins when the first major item begins transport to the customer and the rental ends when the last major item is returned to our designated location. Given the size of our crane and equipment fleet and the various types of cranes and equipment, we sell pieces of used equipment both domestically and internationally to construction or, although infrequently, other rental companies. Sales of used rental equipment are discretionary and based on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, a piece of equipment’s orderly liquidation value, age, rental yield, perceived demand in the marketplace and impact of a sale on our rental businesses and cash flow. Revenues from such used rental equipment sales totaled $6.5 million in 2011 or approximately 7.3% of total revenue Although we do have a small number of in-house vehicles, acquired as part of the Coast Acquisition, to transport our cranes, attachments and other equipment to and from project sites, we generally out-source transportation to third party providers, especially for the larger cranes within the fleet. We charge a fee for arranging transportation services from the nearest storage yard with the required equipment to the construction location. Revenues from such equipment transportation services totaled $5.4 million in 2011 or approximately 6.0% of total revenues. Our contracts have provisions that provide for the customer to assume responsibility to operate and maintain the equipment to manufacturer’s specifications throughout the contract period. We may provide maintenance and repair services to customers during the contract rental period and will invoice the customer for any work carried out (to the extent such work is the customer’s responsibility). Revenues from such repair and maintenance services totaled $5.0 million in 2011 or approximately 5.5% of total revenues. Equipment Distribution Segment Coast Crane and its Canadian subsidiary, Coast Crane Ltd. sell various new and used cranes acquired through trade-in programs and other equipment. Revenues from such equipment sales totaled $14.2 million in 2011 or approximately 15.9% of total revenues Parts and Service Segment Coast Crane and its Canadian subsidiary, Coast Crane Ltd. sell various crane and other equipment parts. Revenues from such retail part sales totaled $9.8 million in 2011 or approximately 11.0% of total revenues. We also provide repair and maintenance services to owners of construction equipment. Revenues from such repair and maintenance services totaled $6.7 million in 2011 or approximately 7.5% of total revenues, a portion of which is reported within the equipment rental segment. While a piece of equipment is not rented, we are responsible for ensuring that its equipment is compliant with all manufacturers’ specifications and other regulations. Fleet Overview Our fleet consists of over 350 lattice boom crawler cranes and attachments and over 650 other cranes and pieces of construction equipment. Tower cranes, rough terrain cranes and boom trucks comprise approximately 95% of the total orderly liquidation value of the non-crawler crane fleet. The fleet’s equipment varies in age and lifting capacity. We own all of our equipment and attachments and do not lease any of these items from third parties. 6 As of December 31, 2011, the weighted average age of each class of equipment (weighted based on orderly liquidation value) and the orderly liquidation value composition of the fleet are as follows: Weighted Percentage Average of Orderly Age (Years) Liquidation Value Crawler Cranes 15.2 70.1% Rough Terrain Cranes 2.5 13.1% Industrial Cranes 4.1 0.5% Boomtrucks 3.9 5.4% Self-Erecting Tower Cranes 5.7 1.7% City & Other Tower Cranes 4.0 7.2% Forklifts and Other Eqiupment 5.6 1.9% We measure utilization using the method referred to as the “days” method. Management believes that this method, while it may reflect lower utilization rates than other methods used in the industry, is the most accurate method for measuring equipment utilization and correlates most closely with rental revenue. Under this method, a real time report is generated from the ERP system for each piece of equipment on rent in a period. The report includes the number of days each piece of equipment was on rent on a particular lease and the base monthly rental rate (excluding any overtime revenues). The total number of days on rent of all pieces of rental equipment provides the numerator for determining utilization. The denominator is all rental equipment assets owned times the number of days in the month. The “days” method is the utilization measurement that we currently use, and we anticipate that the “days” method will be the primary basis for future disclosure of utilization rates for our cranes and other construction equipment offered for rent. The following table provides a summary of utilization rates calculated using the “days” method for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 for the equipment types owned during those periods. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Crawler Cranes 39.8% 37.5% Rough Terrain Cranes 62.0% N/A Boomtrucks 54.0% N/A Self-Erecting Tower Cranes 24.4% N/A City and Other Tower Cranes 40.1% N/A Forklifts and Other Equipment 39.9% N/A Note: 2010 utilization rates for categories other than crawler cranes is not meaningful due to the timing of the Coast Acquisition in November 2010. Lattice boom crawler cranes have long useful economic lives, often up to 50 years or more. This is longer than other types of cranes and equipment in the lifting market space. Tower cranes and rough terrain cranes also have relatively long useful economic lives that can range up to 30 years. Our management believes this is due to the relatively high value of the crane’s structural steel (including its boom) as it relates to the total value of the crane. These structural steel items are complex fabrications with high replacement value made from high tensile strength steel. When properly maintained, these components retain their value over the life of the crane with minimal maintenance costs. At the conclusion of each rental, the rented equipment is thoroughly inspected in accordance with requirements set by the original equipment manufacturer and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). If maintenance or repairs are required, they are scheduled and completed prior to the next rental. At the start of the next rental, another inspection is made to ensure that the equipment is in a rent ready condition and compliant with the inspection requirements. We have extensive capabilities to perform major repair and reconditioning of the cranes and attachments. This type of activity is done on an as-needed basis to ensure that the equipment provides a high level of availability (uptime) when on rent. We currently represent industry leading manufacturers including Broderson, JLG, Little Giant, Lull, Manitex, Mantis, Potain, Tadano and Terex in many of the western states of the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii, as well as Canada and Guam, and have developed strong long-term relationships with them. In addition, we maintain direct relationships with Manitowoc and Liebherr. 7 Sales and Marketing Over our operating history, we have expanded our infrastructure of service centers and storage yards to key geographical locations across the United States in order to serve customers in a timely and efficient manner. We significantly expanded our reach into the Western and Northwestern United States, Alaska, Hawaii and Guam with the Coast Acquisition. We currently operate approximately 20 service centers and storage yards giving us the ability to service customers throughout North America. We employ a sales and marketing team across the country, each member of which covers a specific geographic region and reports directly to a senior management executive. Rather than segmenting the fleet by geography or salesperson, the fleet is allocated based upon factors such as rental financial return, customer mix and project mix. As such, each salesperson is highly incentivized to optimize the fleet’s financial returns and sales mix. We market our business to potential customers through advertising, promotion, membership in construction trade associations and attendance at various meetings and trade shows. In addition, our web sites are designed with the goal of being very useful to engineers and designers who determine how a construction project will be built, as well as equipment and project managers who are responsible for the selection of the cranes that will be used to complete the project. Essex’s management believes that our web sites accomplish this goal by providing more comprehensive information regarding our equipment and the capacities and specifications of that equipment than may be readily available from other sources. Our sales teams use their extensive relationships with customers and potential users of cranes and other construction equipment to identify potential rental opportunities. This, combined with Essex Crane’s and Coast Crane’s reputations and brand value, contributes significantly to their sales activity. In recent years, we have enhanced this traditional method of lead generation with two lead-generation sales systems. The lead generation systems are used by Essex to collect information regarding construction activity from a variety of public records, including building permits. This information is then electronically sorted and filtered, using management input to focus on jobs that most likely will require a large piece of equipment we offer. This output is sent directly to the sales team who is responsible for the geographic area in which the project will be built. Essex’s management believes that these methods provide a high degree of market visibility and awareness to the sales team and management. Additionally, Customer Relationship Management (“CRM”) systems are used to track and manage customer interaction. Essex operates a customized rental information management system through which detailed operational and financial information is available on a real time basis. The system is also used to maintain a detailed database of quoting activity for projects on which our equipment will be required. Management and sales personnel use this information to closely monitor business activity by piece of equipment, looking at customer trends and proactively responding to changes in the heavy lift marketplace. Management believes that its disciplined fleet management process, with its focus on project duration and lead time, as well as customer demand, enables the Company to maximize utilization and rental rates. Customers and end markets We serve a variety of customers throughout North America, many of which are large engineering and construction firms focused on large infrastructure and infrastructure-related projects that require significant lifting capacity and high mechanical reliability. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Essex generated approximately 21%, 17%, 17%, 15% and 10% of total revenue from the transportation, industrial/marine, general building, power generation, and sewer and water end markets, respectively. Because of the scale and duration of these projects, rental agreement periods for equipment with heavier lifting capacities range from 4-18 months. This provides us with better future revenue visibility and project lead generation times than many of our competitors. Our revenue generation model has been significantly expanded to lower lifting capacity cranes and other construction equipment that is commonly rented for shorter periods of time and generally serve residential and smaller commercial construction projects. We generated approximately $4.9 million and $0.5 million of our total revenue from foreign countries for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. 8 Our end-markets incorporate construction and repair and maintenance projects in the following key sub-sectors: ·industrial /marine – offshore facilities, marine facilities and other industrial facilities; ·power – power plants, cogeneration power and wind power; ·transportation and infrastructure – airports, port facilities, bridges, roads, levees and canals; ·petrochemicals – offshore platforms, refineries, petrochemical plants and pipelines; ·sewer and water – sewers, treatment plants and pumping plants; and ·general building - sports arenas, hospitals, commercial and residential. Many of the market sectors we serve have been adversely affected by the weakening economy and difficult commercial credit environment. Management believes that, in the long-term, our strong niche market position and improvements in our fleet due to investment in new cranes combined with the diversification in our overall fleet of rental equipment and the addition of new lines of business, such as retail equipment and spare parts sales achieved by the Coast Acquisition will provide opportunities for future growth. Management bases such belief on the assumption that, in the long-term, there will be improvements in our customers’ ability to obtain financing, including credit, for infrastructure projects. We cannot assure you that our customers’ access to financing for infrastructure projects, including credit, will improve. Results for the years 2009 through 2011 were significantly lower than historical results and were negatively impacted by uncertainty in the end markets in which our customers operate caused by declining economic conditions and available credit. Utilization rates and average rental rates have declined during the same period and are also well below historical levels. As of December 31, 2011, Essex Rental’s estimated 12 month backlog stood at approximately $20.5 million. Strategy Our management anticipates that the following longer-term market trends will increase demand for cranes, attachments and other construction equipment in the future and over longer periods: ·increased levels of infrastructure spending, including the construction of major bridges, airports and water treatment facilities; ·increased demand for electric power will require construction of additional power plants, potentially including nuclear power plants; ·continued higher energy costs will increase construction activity to improve and expand efficiencies and capacities at refineries, offshore production suppliers, and petrochemical facilities; ·increased environmental awareness will increase demand for construction of alternative energy sources such as wind and solar power, and clean air requirements including SO2 scrubbers and ash precipitators; ·continued tendency for contractors to rent lattice boom crawler cranes, rough terrain cranes, tower cranes and boom trucks rather than own their own equipment; and ·modular construction methods, including pre-fabrication, which generally require greater use of cranes, will continue to increase because of potential cost savings and site efficiencies. Increase market share and pursue profitable growth opportunities. Through our fleet size, geographically dispersed service centers and storage yards, which allow us to provide equipment for projects throughout the United States and, to a lesser extent, Canada, Mexico, Guam and the South Pacific and track record of customer service, we intend to take advantage of these trends in order to maximize the opportunities for profitable growth within the North American “bare” crane rental and construction equipment rental market by: ·optimizing fleet allocation across geographic regions, customers and end-markets to maximize utilization and rental rates; ·focusing on superior customer service and providing a superior fleet of cranes and attachments as compared to our competitors; ·leveraging our leading fleet size and composition across the country to increase our customer base and share of its existing customer base’s spending in the sector; 9 ·expanding our rental products by offering other crane types that can be rented “bare”; ·increase our opportunities to engage with customers through distribution sales of new and used cranes and parts and service; ·continuing to align incentives for local sales people and managers with both profit and growth targets; ·pursuing additional selected acquisitions of other smaller, more regionally focused crane rental fleets or companies complementary to existing operations; ·expanding used equipment sales by positioning used cranes for refurbishment and re-sale; and ·establishing and maintaining existing relationships with international market players and crane manufacturers for future equipment purchase and sale opportunities. Further drive profitability, cash flow and return on capital. Our management believes there are significant opportunities to further increase the profitability of our operations by: ·continuing to re-position the crawler crane fleet by selling older, lighter tonnage cranes and purchasing newer, heavier lifting capacity cranes that command higher margins and are in greater demand due to their ability to service large infrastructure-related projects; ·actively managing the quality, reliability and availability of our fleet and offering superior customer service in order to support a competitive pricing strategy; ·evaluating each new potential rental contract opportunity based on strict return guidelines, effective assessment of risk and allocating our fleet accordingly; ·using our size and national market presence to achieve economies of scale in capital investment; and ·leveraging our extensive customer relationships at Essex Crane and Coast Crane to aid in the rental of equipment and selling of new and used equipment. Competition The heavy lift equipment rental industry is highly fragmented throughout North America, with a variety of smaller companies, many of which are family-owned, operating on a regional or local scale. Companies that have a national focus generally provide heavy lift rental services across a spectrum of crane types such as all-terrain, truck and tower cranes as well as crawlers. With a fleet of over 1,000 cranes and other construction equipment and unparalleled customer service and support, Essex supplies a wide variety of innovative lifting solutions for construction projects related to power generation, petro-chemical, refineries, water treatment and purification, bridges, highways, hospitals, shipbuilding, offshore oil fabrication and industrial plants, and commercial and residential construction. Our fleet of equipment is one of the largest fleets in North America, which allows for economies of scale advantages with regard to purchasing power and allocation of rental equipment resources to the market. At the same time, our operational structure allows our Essex Crane and Coast Crane subsidiaries to focus on specific crane types (lattice-boom crawler cranes in the case of Essex Crane and heavy lift tower and rough terrain cranes in the case of Coast Crane), which allows them to develop greater expertise in comparison to our competitors. Our principal competitors include ALL Erection & Crane Rental, Bigge Crane and Rigging, Co., Lampson International, Maxim Crane Works, M.D., Morrow Equipment Rental, Western Pacific Crane and Equipment, and AmQuip Crane Corp. Some of these competitors operate nationally and others are regional. We believe that there are six key factors differentiating us from our competitors: ·heavy lifting equipment focus – We are primarily focused on heavy lift mobile and tower cranes dedicated to infrastructure and other large construction projects. Other companies also focus on other crane types with lower lift capacities and smaller types of construction rental equipment. Although the Company acquired some smaller types of construction rental equipment (such as personnel carriers and other lift equipment) in conjunction with the acquisition of Coast Crane’s assets, these smaller types of construction rental equipment account for approximately 3% of the total fleet value; 10 ·national capabilities – some competitors offer national service capabilities, however most are regional players. Our management believes that a national presence provides the ability to fully service engineering and construction firms with a similar national footprint; ·“bare” rental – we do not rent our equipment with an operator. While some other rental companies also rent equipment bare, generally equipment is rented with an operator. Renting equipment on a bare rental basis minimizes liability for the Company, provides a more efficient operating platform and business model; ·our distribution business at Coast Crane provides the opportunity to provide product support for contractor owned cranes, which may lead to the opportunity to either sell or rent them additional cranes in the future; ·outsourced transport – unlike many of our competitors, we do not operate an in-house transport department. In management’s view, this allows us to focus on core competencies and removes the need for capital investment in truck fleets and associated infrastructure; and ·publicly traded company listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market with access to public capital to fund our growth. Competition in the heavy lift equipment rental segment is strong and is defined by equipment availability, reliability, service and price. Our management believes that our extensive crane and attachment fleet, national presence and sales force, client relationships and equipment allocation and management systems provide us with a good scale and competitive positioning within the industry relative to our peers. Risk of Loss and Insurance The operation of lattice boom crawler cranes, tower cranes and rough terrain cranes includes risks such as mechanical and structural failures, physical damage, property damage, operator overload or error, equipment loss, or business interruptions. We primarily rent our cranes and attachments on a “bare” lease and rarely supply the operator and seldom perform the routine scheduled maintenance on the equipment during the rental. We require the lessee to supply a primary insurance policy covering the loss of the equipment and general liability for claims initiated by an accident, storm, fire or theft for rental agreements while the equipment is in the customer’s possession, custody and control. We also require that Essex be named as an additional insured and the loss payee on the lessee’s insurance policy. Our lease agreement also requires the lessee to indemnify us for any injury, damage and business interruption caused by the crane or the attachment while it is being leased. We maintain secondary insurance coverage for any claim not covered by the lessee’s insurance, however, we cannot guarantee that our insurance or the insurance of our customers will cover all claims or risks or that any specific claim will be paid by an insurer. Government Regulation Federal, state and local authorities subject our facilities and operations to requirements relating to environmental protection, occupational safety and health and many other subjects. These requirements, which can be expected to change and expand in the future, impose significant capital and operating costs on our business. The environmental laws and regulations govern, among other things, the discharge of substances into the air, water and land, the handling, storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of properties affected by pollutants. Environmental laws also impose obligations and liability for the investigation and cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substance spills or releases. We can be subject to liability for the disposal of substances which we generate and for substances disposed of on property which we own or operate, even if such disposal occurred before our ownership or occupancy. Accordingly, we may become liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for investigation, remediation and monitoring costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by us, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to our ownership or operation of the property. In addition, because environmental laws frequently impose joint and several liability on all responsible parties, we may be held liable for more than our proportionate share of environmental investigation and cleanup costs. Contamination and exposure to hazardous substances can also result in claims for damages, including personal injury, property damage, and natural resources damage claims. Some of our properties contain, or previously contained, above-ground or underground storage tanks and/or oil-water separators. Given the nature of our operations (which involve the use and disposal of petroleum products, solvents and other hazardous substances for fueling and maintaining our cranes, attachments, equipment and vehicles) and the historical operations at some of our properties, we may incur material costs associated with soil or groundwater contamination. Under environmental and safety laws, we may be liable for, among other things, (i) the costs of investigating and remediating contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we sent hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment regardless of fault and (ii) fines and penalties for non-compliance. We incur ongoing expenses associated with the performance of appropriate investigation and remediation activities at certain of our locations. 11 Our operations are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to occupational safety and health, most notably standards promulgated by OSHA. We are subject to various OSHA regulations that primarily deal with maintaining a safe work-place environment. OSHA regulations require us, among other things, to maintain documentation of work-related injuries, illnesses and fatalities and files for recordable events, complete workers compensation loss reports and review the status of outstanding worker compensation claims, and complete certain annual filings and postings. We may be involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and investigation with these governmental agencies, including inspections and audits by the applicable agencies related to our compliance with these requirements. During 2011 and 2010, we did not incur material expenses related to environmental investigations or remediation activities, and management does not expect to incur such expenses in the near term. There can be no assurance, however, that we will not incur such expenditures in the future. Climate Change To the extent that climate change does occur, we may experience extreme weather and changes in precipitation and temperature, all of which may result in physical damage or a decrease in demand for rental equipment located in or potentially rented in these areas affected by these conditions. Should the impact of climate change be material in nature, including destruction of our rental equipment assets or property, plant and equipment, or occur for lengthy periods of time, our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, developments in federal and state legislation and regulation on climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our rental equipment without a corresponding increase in revenue. Customers Our customer base is highly diversified and ranges from Fortune 500 companies to small businesses. Our largest customer accounted for less than 10% of our revenues in 2011 and our top 5 customers accounted for less than 12% of our revenues in 2011. Historically, Essex Crane has typically retained over 40% of our customer base year-over-year while adding new customers as we attempt to grow the business. Our customer base varies by branch and is determined by several factors, including the equipment mix and marketing focus of the particular branch as well as the business composition of the local economy. Our customers include: •construction companies that use equipment for constructing and renovating commercial buildings, warehouses, industrial and manufacturing plants, office parks, airports, residential developments and other facilities; •industrial companies—such as manufacturers, refineries, chemical companies, paper mills, railroads, ship builders, off-shore fabricators and utilities, including wind farms - that use equipment for plant maintenance, upgrades, expansion and construction; •municipalities that require equipment for a variety of purposes; and •contractors performing repair and maintenance to major renovation projects for owners of commercial and industrial facilities, such as power companies. Suppliers Our strategic approach with respect to our suppliers is to maintain the minimum number of suppliers per category of equipment that can satisfy our anticipated volume, location and business requirements. This approach is designed to ensure the terms we negotiate are competitive and that there is sufficient product available to meet anticipated customer demand. We utilize a comprehensive selection process to determine our equipment vendors. We consider product capabilities and industry position, product liability history and financial strength. We have been making ongoing efforts to consolidate our vendor base in order to further increase our purchasing power. We estimate that our largest supplier accounted for approximately 13.7% of our 2011 total purchases, including equipment for rental, and that our 2 largest suppliers accounted for approximately 23.9% of such purchases. We believe we have sufficient alternative sources of supply available for each of our equipment categories. 12 Seasonality Although our business is not significantly impacted by seasonality, the demand for our rental equipment tends to be lower during the winter months. The level of equipment rental activities are directly related to commercial, residential and industrial construction and maintenance activities. Therefore, equipment rental performance will be correlated to the levels of current construction activities in the United States and Western Canada. The severity of weather conditions can have a temporary impact on the level of construction activities. Equipment sales cycles are subject to some seasonality with the peak selling period during the spring season and extending through summer. Parts and service activities are less affected by changes in demand caused by seasonality. Employees As of December 31, 2011, we had 273 employees, 8 of which are senior management. Six members of our staff are affiliated with trade unions. We have not experienced any work stoppage as a result of issues with labor or with unions and believe that this fact is a testament to our relationship with our employees. To our knowledge, there is no current campaign by any union to organize additional employees of Essex. Availability of Information The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). The Company therefore files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Such reports may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. Financial and other information can also be accessed on the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website at http://www.essexrental.com. The Company makes available through its website, free of charge, copies of its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. Also posted on Essex’s website are the Company’s corporate governance documents, the charters of the Audit Committee, Nominating Committee and Compensation Committee. The reference to our website is textual in reference only, and information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or the Company’s other securities filings and is not a part of them. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business may be adversely affected by changing economic conditions beyond our control, including decreases in construction or industrial activities. The crane and equipment rental, and distribution industry’s revenue is closely tied to conditions in the end markets in which our customers operate and more broadly to general economic conditions. Our products are used primarily in infrastructure-related projects and other construction projects in a variety of industries (including the power, transportation infrastructure, petrochemical, municipal construction and industrial and marine industries). Consequently, the economic downturn, and particularly the weakness in our end markets may lead to a significant decrease in demand for our equipment or depress equipment rental and utilization rates and the sales prices for equipment we sell. During periods of expansion in our respective end markets, we generally have benefited from increased demand for our products. Conversely, during recessionary periods in our end markets, we have been adversely affected by reduced demand for our products. Weakness in our end markets, such as a decline in non-residential construction, infrastructure projects or industrial activity, may in the future lead to a decrease in the demand for our equipment or the rental rates or prices we can charge. Factors that may cause weakness in our end markets include but are not limited to: ·slowdowns in construction in the geographic regions in which we operate; ·reductions in residential and commercial building construction; ·reductions in corporate spending for plants, factories and other facilities; and 13 ·reductions in government spending on highways and other infrastructure projects. Future declines in construction, infrastructure projects and industrial activity could adversely affect our operating results by decreasing revenues and profit margins. Continued weakness or further deterioration in the construction and industrial sectors caused by these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the future and may also have a material adverse effect on residual values realized on the disposition of our rental fleet. Declines in our order backlog should be considered as an indication of a decline in the strength of the non-residential construction markets. Fluctuations in the stock market, as well as general economic and market conditions, may impact the market price of our securities. The market price of our securities has been and may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to general economic changes and other factors including, but not limited to: ·variations in our quarterly operating results or results that vary from investor expectations; ·changes in the strategy and actions taken by our competitors, including pricing changes; ·securities analysts’ elections to not cover our common stock, or, if analysts do elect to cover our common stock, changes in financial estimates by analysts, or a downgrade of our common stock or of our sector by analysts; ·announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ·loss of a large supplier; ·investor perceptions of us and the equipment rental and distribution industry; ·our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and consolidations; and ·national or regional catastrophes or circumstances and natural disasters, hostilities and acts of terrorism. Broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our securities, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, including to those listed above and others, may affect the market price of our securities. 14 We are dependent upon key personnel whose loss may adversely impact our business and our results of operations. We depend on the expertise, experience and continued services of our senior management employees, especially Ronald Schad, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Martin Kroll, our Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, as well as senior management employees of our operating subsidiaries. Mr. Schad has acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to our and our subsidiaries’ operations and most decisions concerning our business are made or significantly influenced by him. The loss of any of the foregoing individuals or other senior management employees, without a proper succession plan, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. We seek to compensate and incentivize our key executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries and bonus plans, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key employees or hire new key employees. As a result, if Messrs. Schad, Kroll, or other senior executives of our operating subsidiaries were to leave, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successors obtain the necessary training and experience. In connection with the acquisition of Essex Crane, we entered into three-year employment agreements with each of Messrs. Schad, Kroll, Erwin and O’Rourke. Each such employment agreement will be renewed and extended automatically for successive one year periods, unless either party to the applicable employment agreement provides ninety (90) das advance notice that such extension will not take effect at the end of the then-applicable term. These contracts are scheduled to expire in October 2012, subject to the renewal provisions contained therein. As of the date of this filing, we have not entered into employment agreements with any other members of senior management. Our dependence on a small number of crane manufacturers poses a significant risk to our business and prospects. Essex Crane’s crane fleet has historically been comprised of only Manitowoc and Liebherr crawler cranes. Similarly, Coast Crane’s fleet of cranes available for rent has been comprised primarily of cranes provided by Manitowoc subsidiaries, including Potain, Grove and National. In addition, Coast Crane serves as a distributor of Broderson, JLG, Little Giant, Lull, Manitex, Mantis, Potain, Tadano and Terex lifting equipment. Coast Crane’s crane and equipment distribution business depends upon its exclusive dealer partnerships with leading crane and equipment manufacturing companies and many of such relationships can typically be terminated on short notice. Given Essex Crane’s reliance on two manufacturers for its entire fleet of crawler cranes and Coast Crane’s reliance on a limited number of manufacturers for a majority of its rental fleet and distribution activities, and limited alternative sources of cranes, if any of these manufacturers were unable to meet expected manufacturing timeframes due to, for example, natural disasters or labor strikes, we may experience a significant increase in lead times to acquire new equipment or may be unable to acquire such equipment at all. Any inability to acquire the model types or quantities of new equipment on a timely basis to replace older, less utilized equipment could adversely impact our future financial condition or results of operations. In addition, Essex Crane has developed strong relationships with Manitowoc and Liebherr and Coast Crane has developed strong relationships with its strategic partners. There can be no assurance that Essex Crane or Coast Crane will be able to maintain their relationships with these suppliers. Termination of Essex Crane’s or Coast Crane’s relationship with these suppliers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations if such termination resulted in Essex Crane or Coast Crane being unable to obtain adequate rental and sales equipment from other sources in a timely manner or at all. The cost of new equipment we use in our rental fleet may increase, which may cause us to spend significantly more for replacement equipment, and in some cases we may not be able to procure equipment at all due to supplier constraints. Our business model is capital intensive and requires significant continual investment in new cranes and equipment to meet customer demand. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be significantly impacted by a material change in the pricing of new cranes and equipment that we acquire. Such changes may be driven by a number of factors which include, but are not limited to: ·steel prices – due to the high tensile steel component of the cranes, significant changes in the price of steel can materially change the cost of acquiring a crane; ·global demand – the market for crawler cranes is global and significant growth in overseas demand for cranes could materially increase the cost of new cranes regardless of U.S. economic conditions; 15 ·inflation – overall inflationary conditions in the U.S. may impact the operating costs of one of our key suppliers and therefore impact crane or other lifting equipment for customers such as Essex Crane and Coast Crane; and ·currency fluctuations – as two of our principal suppliers are based in Europe and Japan, devaluation of the U.S. dollar (as compared to the Euro or the Yen) may materially increase the cost of acquiring cranes and attachments; conversely, inflation of the value of the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our revenues from international sales of used cranes and attachments and adversely affect our revenues from sales of new and used cranes, spare parts and related equipment to the extent that inflation allows foreign suppliers to offer competing products on more attractive terms. While we can manage the size and aging of our fleet generally over time, eventually we must replace older equipment in our fleet with newer models. We would be adversely impacted if we were unable to procure cranes to allow us to replace our older and, in the case of Essex Crane, smaller capacity crawler cranes over time as anticipated. If we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing equipment and to acquiring new rental locations. Although we intend to market each of Essex Crane and Coast Crane under separate trade names for the foreseeable future, our ability to compete, sustain our growth and expand our operations through new locations largely depends on access to capital. If the cash we generate from the operations of Essex Crane and Coast Crane, together with cash on hand and cash that we may borrow under their respective credit facilities, or short-term debt obtained by either Essex, Essex Finance or Coast Crane is not sufficient to implement our growth strategy and meet our capital needs, we will require additional financing. However, we may not succeed in obtaining additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing collateralized by the assets of Essex Crane and Coast Crane and our ability to obtain additional financing on a secured or unsecured basis are restricted by Essex Crane’s and Coast Crane’s respective credit facilities. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing crane attachments and other lifting equipment and to new service locations or storage yards. Furthermore, any additional indebtedness that we do incur may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. If we are successful in our efforts to expand our operations, through new locations, acquisitions or additional equipment, such expansion may result in risks and costs associated with business start-up and integration. The opening of new service locations or storage yards or the completion of any future acquisitions of other equipment rental companies may result in significant start-up or transaction expenses and risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience. New service locations and storage yards require significant up-front capital expenditures and may require a significant investment of our management’s time to successfully commence operations. New locations may also require a significant amount of time to provide an adequate return on capital invested, if any. In addition, in the event that we were to acquire different types of cranes, attachments or other lifting equipment than those they currently rent, or different classes of rental equipment, there can be no assurance that our customers would choose to rent such items from us or would do so at such rates or on such terms, that would be acceptable to us. Our ability to realize the expected benefits from the Coast Crane acquisition or any future acquisitions of other equipment rental companies depends in large part on our ability to integrate and consolidate the new operations with our existing operations in a timely and effective manner and to otherwise implement our business plan for the combined business. In addition, we may fail or be unable to discover certain liabilities of any acquired business, including liabilities relating to noncompliance with environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Any significant diversion of management’s attention from our existing operations, the loss of key employees or customers of any acquired business, or any major difficulties encountered in opening new locations or integrating new operations, including, but not limited to those arising from inconsistencies in controls, procedures or company policies, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 16 The equipment rental, distribution and repair service industries are competitive. The equipment rental and distribution industries are highly fragmented. The crane rental industry is served by companies who focus almost exclusively on crane and lifting equipment rental. We compete directly with regional, and local crane rental companies and a limited number of national crane rental companies (including ALL Erection & Crane, Lampson International, Morrow Equipment Rental, Amquip Crane Corp., Maxim Crane Works and Biggie Crane). There can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition from existing competitors or new market entrants (including a newly-formed competitor created by consolidating several existing regional competitors) that may be significantly larger and have greater financial and marketing resources. Our management believes that rental rates, fleet availability and size and quality are the primary competitive factors in the crane rental industry. Our management also believes that price, equipment mix and the quality and availability of post-sale repair and spare part services are the primary competitive factors in the crane distribution industry. From time to time, we or our competitors may attempt to compete aggressively by lowering rental rates or prices or offering more favorable rental or sale terms. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by decreasing our market share or depressing the rental rates or sale prices for our equipment. To the extent we lower rental rates or sale prices, offer different rental or sale terms or increase our fleet in order to retain or increase market share, our operating margins would be adversely impacted. Our status as a public company may be a competitive disadvantage. We are and will continue to be subject to the disclosure and reporting requirements of applicable U.S. securities laws and rules promulgated by The NASDAQ Stock Market. Many of our principal competitors are not subject to these disclosure and reporting requirements or the NASDAQ rules. As a result, we may be required to disclose certain information and expend funds on disclosure and financial and other controls that may put us at a competitive disadvantage to our principal competitors. We may encounter substantial competition in our efforts to expand our operations. An element of our growth strategy is to continue to expand by opening new service centers and equipment storage yards. The success of our growth strategy depends in part on identifying sites for new locations at attractive prices. Zoning restrictions may in the future prevent us from being able to open new service centers or storage yards at sites we have identified. We may also encounter substantial competition in our efforts to acquire other crane rental companies, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities and lead to higher acquisition costs. The crane rental industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance. We may not be adequately insured against all risks and there can be no assurance that our insurers will pay a particular claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement crane in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. Our insurance policies will also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although management believes are standard in the heavy lift crane rental industry, may nevertheless increase our costs. Moreover, certain accidents or other occurrences may result in intangible damages (such as damage to our reputation) for which insurance may not provide an adequate remedy. We may not be able to renew our insurance coverage on terms favorable to us that could lead to increased costs in the event of future claims. When our current insurance policies expire, we may be unable to renew such coverage upon terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are able to renew our coverage we expect that the premium rates and deductibles may increase as a result of general rate increases for this type of insurance as well as our historical claims experience and that of our competitors in the industry. If we cannot obtain insurance coverage, it could adversely affect our business by increasing our costs with respect to any claims. Additionally, existing or future claims may exceed the level of our present insurance, and our insurance may not continue to be available on economically reasonable or desirable terms, if at all. 17 We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash from future operations. As of December 31, 2011, Essex Crane has a revolving credit facility which provides for an aggregate borrowing capacity of $190.0 million, of which $157.8 million was outstanding, and Coast Crane has a revolving credit facility which provides for an aggregate borrowing capacity of $75.0 million, of which $64.3 million was outstanding. Each facility is secured by a first priority lien on all of the applicable borrower’s assets and, in the event of default; the lenders generally would be entitled to seize the collateral. We also have approximately $7.6 million of other term debt, $5.0 million of which is unsecured while the remaining amount is secured by specific equipment. In the event of a prolonged economic downturn, our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or from other sources to enable it to repay its indebtedness and to fund its other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements and may not be able to refinance any of its indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot service or refinance our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as asset divestitures, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In the event we or any of our subsidiaries incur further debt obligations in relation to acquisitions, or for any other purpose, the exposure to the risks outlined above will increase accordingly. Decreases in the appraised value of our rental fleet and other assets securing our revolving credit facilities may result in an inability to meet our financial obligations. The amounts available for borrowing under our revolving credit facilities are determined based on the value of assets securing those obligations, including rental equipment, company vehicles, parts and equipment inventories and accounts receivables. The value of rental equipment and company vehicles are determined based on the opinion of an independent appraisal firm engaged by the respective financial institutions. A decline in the appraised value of these assets would directly impact our liquidity and as a result, we may not be able to meet our financial obligations. Our revolving credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that will limit our corporate activities. The revolving credit facilities of Essex Crane and Coast Crane impose operating and financial restrictions that will limit, among other things, their ability to: ·create additional liens on their assets; ·make investments and capital expenditures above a certain threshold; ·incur additional indebtedness; ·engage in mergers or acquisitions; ·pay dividends or redeem outstanding capital stock; ·sell any of their respective cranes or any other assets outside the ordinary course of business; and ·change their respective businesses. Essex Crane and Coast Crane will need to seek permission from their respective lenders in order for Essex Crane or Coast Crane, as applicable, to engage in some corporate actions. Essex Crane’s and Coast Crane’s lender’s interests may be different from those of Essex Crane or Coast Crane, and no assurance can be given that Essex Crane or Coast Crane will be able to obtain their lender’s permission when needed. This may prevent Essex Crane or Coast Crane from taking certain actions that are in their best interests. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and our stock price may be adversely affected. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. Any system of internal control over financial reporting, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Therefore, we cannot assure you that in the future material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not exist or otherwise be discovered. Any weaknesses or deficiencies could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our consolidated financial statements, a decline in our stock price and investor confidence, or other material effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 18 We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may result in us incurring unanticipated liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our operating performance. Federal, state and local authorities subject our facilities and operations to requirements relating to environmental protection. These requirements can be expected to change and expand in the future, and may impose significant capital and operating costs on our business. Environmental laws and regulations govern, among other things, the discharge of substances into the air, water and land, the handling, storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of properties affected by pollutants. If the Company violates environmental laws or regulations, it may be required to implement corrective actions and could be subject to civil or criminal fines or penalties. There can be no assurance that the Company will not have to make significant capital expenditures in the future in order to remain in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or that the company will comply with applicable environmental laws at all times. Such violations or liability could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws also impose obligations and liability for the investigation and cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substance spills or releases. The Company can be subject to liability for the disposal of substances which it generates and for substances disposed of on property which it owns or operates, even if such disposal occurred before its ownership or occupancy. Accordingly, the Company may become liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for investigation, remediation and monitoring costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by the Company, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to the Company’s ownership or operation of the property. In addition, because environmental laws frequently impose joint and several liability on all responsible parties, the Company may be held liable for more than its proportionate share of environmental investigation and cleanup costs. Contamination and exposure to hazardous substances can also result in claims for damages, including personal injury, property damage, and natural resources damage claims. Some of the properties contain, or previously contained, above-ground or underground storage tanks and/or oil-water separators. Given the nature of the operations of the Company (which involve the use and disposal of petroleum products, solvents and other hazardous substances for fueling and maintaining its cranes, attachments and vehicles) and the historical operations at some of its properties, the Company may incur material costs associated with soil or groundwater contamination. Future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to remediation liabilities or other claims that may be material. Environmental requirements may become stricter or be interpreted and applied more strictly in the future. In addition, the Company may be required to indemnify other parties for adverse environmental conditions that are now unknown to us. These future changes or interpretations, or the indemnification for such adverse environmental conditions, could result in environmental compliance or remediation costs not anticipated by us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to numerous occupational health and safety laws and regulations that may result in us incurring unanticipated liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our operating performance. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to occupational safety and health, most notably standards promulgated by the Occupational, Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA. We are subject to various OSHA regulations that primarily deal with maintaining a safe work-place environment. OSHA regulations require us, among other things, to maintain documentation of work-related injuries, illnesses and fatalities and files for recordable events, complete workers compensation loss reports and review the status of outstanding worker compensation claims, and complete certain annual filings and postings. We may be involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and investigation with these governmental agencies, including inspections and audits by the applicable agencies related to its compliance with these requirements. 19 To date, compliance by the Company with these and other applicable safety regulations has not had a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, the failure of the Company to comply with these and other applicable requirements in the future could result in fines and penalties and require us to undertake certain remedial actions or be subject to a suspension of business, which, if significant, could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations. Moreover, the involvement by the Company in any audits and investigations or other proceedings could result in substantial financial cost to us and divert our management’s attention. Several recent highly-publicized accidents involving cranes (none of which involved cranes or attachments provided by the company) could result in more stringent enforcement of work-place safety regulations, especially with respect to companies which rent older cranes and attachments. Additionally, future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, new laws or regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to us, may give rise to additional compliance or remedial costs that could be material. Safety requirements may become stricter or be interpreted and applied more strictly in the future. These future changes or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There are a substantial number of shares of our common stock available for resale in the future that may cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We filed a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the resale of 10,695,363 shares by the selling stockholders identified therein, which was declared effective on February 10, 2011. In accordance with applicable registration rights agreements, we are required to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement until all of the shares registered for resale thereby have been sold or are otherwise eligible for trading in the open market. In addition, we have registered 1,575,000 shares previously issued or reserve for future issuance under our 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan and anticipate filing a registration statement on Form S-8 with respect to up to 1,500,000 shares of common stock issuable pursuant to our 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Accordingly, subject to the satisfaction of applicable vesting or exercise periods, common stock registered under such registration statements will be available for resale in the open market. The presence of these additional shares of commons stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price or our common stock. The conversion of the Retained Interests and our outstanding warrants will result in immediate dilution of our existing stockholders and the book value of their common stock. In connection with our acquisition of Essex Crane, Holdings issued the Retained Interests to members of Essex Crane’s senior management. The Retained Interests may be exchanged for up to an aggregate of 632,911 shares of our common stock, subject to certain adjustments. In addition, on November 29, 2010, we issued 90,000 warrants to a group of related investors in a private transaction associated with the exercise of assumed debt into the unsecured promissory notes. Such warrants have an exercise price of $0.01 per share, subject to adjustment. The issuance of these shares and warrants resulted in dilution to our existing stockholders. We have also granted options to purchase an aggregate of 1,474,719 shares of our common stock pursuant to our equity compensation plans, and may grant additional options or common stock pursuant to such plans in the future. Upon the exchange of the Retained Interests, the exercise of such warrants or option, or the issuance of common stock pursuant to our equity compensation plans, the equity interest of our stockholders as a percentage of the total number of outstanding shares of common stock, and the net book value of the shares of our common stock will be significantly diluted. We may issue shares of our common stock and preferred stock to raise additional capital, including to complete a future business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 40,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. We currently have 12,538,540 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants, employee stock options and unit purchase options, and the number of shares issuable upon exchange of the Retained Interests) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we currently have no other commitments to issue any additional shares of our common or preferred stock, we may in the future determine to issue additional shares of our common or preferred stock to raise additional capital for a variety of purposes, including to complete a future acquisition. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock may significantly reduce the equity interest of stockholders and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 