Item 1A. Risk Factors Like all financial companies, the Company’s business and results of operations are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of the Company’s control. In addition to the other information in this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important risk factors, among others, could materially impact the Company’s business and future results of operations. In addition, in analyzing whether to make or continue an investment in the Company’s securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Our Loan Portfolio Includes A Significant Amount of Loans Which Have a Higher Risk of Loss than Conforming, Single-Family Residential Mortgage Loans. As of December 31, 2006, $108.3 million or 45.4% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans. In addition, at such date, we had $23.3 million of single-family residential mortgage loans considered subprime loans, generally due to the borrowers’ credit scores being below certain regulatory thresholds, $11.8 million of construction loans and $2.1 million of multi-family residential real estate loans. Commercial real estate loans, subprime residential mortgage loans, construction loans and multi-family residential mortgage loans all are generally considered to have a higher risk of loss than conforming, single-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate loans generally are considered to have a higher risk of loss because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of a business or the underlying property securing the loan. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. We seek to minimize these risks through our underwriting policies, which require such loans to be qualified on the basis of the property’s net income and debt service coverage ratio; however, there is no assurance that our underwriting policies will protect us from credit-related losses. Construction loans generally have a higher risk of loss than single-family residential mortgage loans due primarily to the critical nature of the initial estimates of a property’s value upon completion of construction compared to the estimated costs, including interest, of construction as well as other assumptions. If the estimates upon which construction loans are made prove to be inaccurate, we may be confronted with projects that, upon completion, have values which are below the loan amounts. Commercial and multi-family real estate loans and construction loans are also typically larger than single-family residential mortgage loans. The deterioration of one or more of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to increase our provisions for loan losses. The net proceeds from the offering will increase our capital and facilitate our ability to make larger commercial real estate and construction loans by increasing our internal loans to one borrower limits. We expect to make larger commercial real estate and construction loans and to increase our construction lending activity upon completion of the reorganization and the offering. By their nature, subprime loans are generally considered to have a greater degree of credit risk than conforming residential mortgage loans because the lower credit score of the borrower may indicate a reduced ability to remain current on loan payments. As a result of the composition of our loan portfolio, our credit risk profile will be higher than traditional thrift institutions that have higher concentrations of one- to four-family residential loans. 32 Rising Interest Rates May Hurt Our Profits. Interest rates were recently at historically low levels. However, since June 30, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate 17 times from 1.00% to 5.25%. If interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits continue to reprice upwards faster than the rates on our loans and investments, we would experience continued compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2004, our average interest rate spread and our net interest margin amounted to 3.00% and 3.23%, respectively. These ratios have steadily declined since such time. Our average interest rate spread declined to 2.74% for the year ended December 31, 2005 and to 2.49% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Correspondingly, our net interest margin decreased to 3.00% and 2.82% for such respective periods. In addition, increases in interest rates could increase our cost of funds with respect to any new borrowings that we may obtain in the future. A Significant Percentage of Our Assets Are Invested in Lower Yielding Investments Which Has Hindered and May Continue To Hinder Our Ability To Be More Profitable. Our results of operations are significantly affected by changes in interest rates and are substantially dependant on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. At December 31, 2006, $48.3 million, or 11.8% of our assets were invested in cash or cash equivalents and $102.9 million or 25.1% of our assets were invested in investment and mortgage-backed securities which yield less than would be obtained if such funds were invested in loans. The Bank has maintained a significant portion of its assets in short-term liquid assets to provide flexibility to invest in loans and other higher yielding assets in a rising rate environment, manage interest rate risk and provide interest income with minimal credit risk. Increases in Market Rates of Interest Could Adversely Affect Our Stockholders’ Equity. At December 31, 2006, we held approximately $78.7 million in available-for-sale securities, representing 19.2% of our total assets. Generally accepted accounting principles require that these securities be carried at fair value on our balance sheet. Unrealized holding gains or losses on these securities, that is, the difference between the fair value and the amortized cost of these securities, net of deferred taxes, is reflected in our stockholders’ equity. Increases in interest rates will reduce the value of our available-for-sale securities portfolio. As of December 31, 2006, our available-for-sale securities portfolio had a net unrealized loss of approximately $1.9 million compared to $2.0 million at December 31, 2005. The decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities affects our stockholders’ equity because it causes an increase in accumulated other comprehensive loss, which is a component of total stockholders’ equity. Comprehensive income or loss is recorded to represent the impact on stockholders’ equity as if such securities were sold at such time. A Downturn in the Regional Economy or a Decline in Real Estate Values Could Hurt Our Net Income. A significant majority of our loans are secured by real estate in the southeastern Pennsylvania. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the regional economy could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would hurt our net income. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in real estate values in our market area. As a result of rising home prices, our residential loans generally have been well collateralized. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. Additionally, a decline in real estate values could adversely impact our portfolio of commercial real estate loans and could result in a decline in the origination of such loans. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area Could Hurt our Profits and Slow Growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to maintain and improve market share of loans and deposits. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect continued strong competition in the future. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. 33 We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and We May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in Laws and Regulations. Alliance Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and by the FDIC. Alliance Bancorp and Alliance Mutual Holding Company are subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of Alliance Bank rather than for holders of Alliance Bancorp common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Alliance Mutual Holding Company Owns a Majority of Alliance Bancorp’s Outstanding Common Stock and is Able to Control the Result of Most Matters Put to a Vote of Alliance Bancorp’s Stockholders. Alliance Mutual Holding Company owns majority of our common stock, and, through its board of directors, is able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of our stockholders. The same directors and officers who manage Alliance Bancorp and Alliance Bank also will manage Alliance Mutual Holding Company. No assurances can be given that Alliance Mutual Holding Company will not take action which the public stockholders believe to be contrary to their interests. For example, Alliance Mutual Holding Company could approve the implementation of stock benefit plans, prevent a sale or merger transaction or defeat a candidate for Alliance Bancorp’s board of directors or other proposals put forth by the public stockholders. Moreover, Alliance Mutual Holding Company’s ownership of a majority of the outstanding shares of Alliance Bancorp’s common stock is likely to perpetuate existing management and directors. In addition, the Office of Thrift Supervision recently proposed that if stock benefit plans are implemented more than one year from an offering conducted by an institution in the mutual holding company format, there would be no specific requirement that stockholders other than the mutual holding company approve such plans. Accordingly, if such proposal is adopted by the Office of Thrift Supervision and if Alliance Bancorp were to wait for more than one year after completion of its recent offering to implement its new stock option plan and stock recognition and retention plan, the approval of such plans solely by Alliance Mutual Holding Company would be sufficient for such plans to be adopted. Our Stock Value May Suffer From Federal Regulations Restricting Takeovers. For three years following the completion of our recent offering (January 30, 2010), Office of Thrift Supervision regulations prohibit any person from acquiring or offering to acquire more than 10% of our common stock without the prior written approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. Accordingly, the range of potential acquirors for Alliance Bancorp will be limited which will correspondingly reduce the likelihood that stockholders will be able to realize a gain on their investment through an acquisition of Alliance Bancorp. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 34 Item 