D. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY We may fail to effectively develop and commercialize new products, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The medical device market is developing rapidly and related technology trends are constantly evolving. This results in frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles and significant price competition. Consequently, our success substantially depends on our ability to anticipate technological trends and identify, develop and commercialize in a timely and cost-effective manner new and advanced products that our customers demand. New products contribute significantly to our net revenues. We expect the medical device market to continue evolving toward newer and more advanced products, many of which we do not currently produce. To develop new products, we may acquire, through acquisitions, products and technologies that are not currently incorporated in our existing product lines. Commercialization of any new product requires relevant government approvals, the timing of which may not be under our control, and is subject to change from time to time. Moreover, it may take an extended period of time for our new products to gain market acceptance, if at all. Furthermore, as the life cycle for a product matures, the average selling price generally decreases. Although we have previously partially offset the effects of declining average selling prices with increases in sales volume and reductions in manufacturing cost, we may be unable to sustain this practice. Lastly, during a product’s life cycle, problems may arise regarding regulatory, intellectual property, product liability or other issues which may affect its continued commercial viability. Our success in developing and commercializing new products is determined primarily by our ability to: • accurately assess technological trends and customer needs and meet market demands; • optimize our manufacturing and procurement processes to predict and control costs; • manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner; • increase customer awareness and acceptance of our products; • effectively manage our brands; • minimize the time and costs required to obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals; • anticipate competitive trends to compete effectively with other medical device developers, manufacturers and marketers; • price our products competitively, including providing financing to our customers; • effectively integrate acquired technology or products into our manufacturing, sales and distribution network; and • effectively integrate customer feedback into our research and development planning. We depend on distributors for a substantial portion of our revenues. Failure to establish and maintain relationships with distributors would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on distributors for a substantial majority of our revenues. We typically do not enter into long-term distribution agreements with our distributors, although we sometimes enter into three-year distribution agreements with certain distributors. Certain of our existing distribution agreements contain terms that are favorable to us, and as our existing distribution agreements expire, we may be unable to renew with our desired distributors on favorable terms or at all. In addition, we seek to limit our dependence on any single distributor by limiting and periodically redefining the scope of each distributor’s territory and the range of our products that it sells, which may make us less attractive to some distributors. Furthermore, competition for distributors is intense. We compete for distributors domestically and internationally with other leading medical equipment and device companies that may have higher visibility, greater name recognition and financial resources, and a broader 5 Table of Contents product selection. Our competitors also often enter into long-term distribution agreements that effectively prevent their distributors from selling our products. At times, we may also become engaged in contract disputes or other negotiations with distributors, including distributors for the businesses we acquired. For more details, please see “—We may undertake acquisitions, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, and may end up being unsuccessful.” Consequently, establishing relationships with new distributors, maintaining relationships with existing distributors and replacing distributors may be difficult and time consuming. Any disruption of our distribution network, including our failure to renew distribution agreements on favorable terms or our failure to successfully negotiate contract disputes, could negatively affect our ability to effectively sell our products and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to effectively manage our distribution network, actions taken by our distributors could harm our corporate image and cause us to fail to meet our sales goals. We have limited ability to manage the activities of our distributors, who are independent from us. Our distributors could take one or more of the following actions, some of which we have previously experienced, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and brand: • sell products that compete with products that they have contracted to sell for us; • sell our products outside of our pricing guidelines, distorting the market price of our products; • sell our products outside their designated territory or to non-authorized end-users, possibly in violation of the exclusive distribution rights of other distributors; • directly or indirectly distribute products that lack necessary U.S. certifications into the U.S. market or non-U.S. markets in violation of applicable U.S. law; • fail to adequately promote our products; and/or • fail to provide proper training, repair and service to our end-users. Furthermore, our distributors may focus selling efforts only on those products that provide them with the largest margins at the expense of products that offer them smaller margins. Failure to adequately manage our distribution network, or non-compliance by distributors with our distribution agreements, could harm our corporate image among end-users of our products and disrupt our sales, resulting in a failure to meet our sales goals. Our direct sales operations are costly and the related ongoing operational costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. We maintain direct sales operations in China, the United States, Europe and certain emerging growth countries. We rely on direct sales for a significant portion of our revenues from certain areas, particularly the United States and Western Europe. Maintaining a direct sales force is costly. In particular, in the United States and Europe, we typically provide our direct operations personnel with payroll and other benefits that we do not provide independent distributors. Many of these benefits are fixed costs that do not depend on revenue generation. Maintaining these direct operations is costly and ongoing operational costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. Maintaining a direct sales force and independent distribution network in the same regions could result in potential sales conflicts that negatively impact our revenue and results of operations and ability to attract and retain sales personnel. We maintain both a direct sales force and an independent distribution network in China, the United States, Europe and certain emerging growth countries, creating the potential for conflict between them. Our direct sales 6 Table of Contents force in a region is often responsible for managing our independent distribution network in such region. If our independent distributors and direct sales force compete with each other in any designated territory, our distribution agreements with independent distributors usually do not prohibit them from reducing selling prices for our products to make sales. Further, independent existing and potential distributors may decide not to sell our products or cease selling our products because of this potential conflict. Moreover, sales conflicts could negatively impact the morale of our direct sales force, making it more difficult to attract and retain sales personnel. We may undertake acquisitions, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, and may end up being unsuccessful. Our growth strategy involves acquiring new technologies, businesses, products or services and creating strategic alliances that may be in areas in which we do not currently operate. For example, in 2012, we completed acquisitions of five China-based companies that produce medical equipment, devices or other products. In 2013, we acquired ZONARE, a U.S. ultrasound technology company in the high-end radiology market, and another distributor company to complement our business. In 2014, we expect to continue to pursue growth through acquisitions and have acquired a reagent manufacturer in early 2014. The integration of these companies and future acquired entities into our business may be unsuccessful and we may be unable to attract and retain the talent required to operate and manage these businesses or to expand into new or existing markets as well as we expect. Acquisitions could also require that our management develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. Also, if we do not obtain full ownership in a company, as was the case with some of our 2012 acquisitions, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions due to an inability to fully control their management. These risks and risks associated with integrating acquired businesses could have an adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Acquisitions may also expose us to other potential risks, including risks associated with unforeseen or hidden liabilities, increased exposure to litigation, historical or continuing regulatory issues of the acquired entity and employee matters associated with headcount and other human resourcing decisions. Also, if we fail to timely and successfully integrate our compliance systems into the newly acquired subsidiaries, we may also face increased exposure to litigation, regulatory issues or other disputes. Additional risks include the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, our inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset related costs, expenses of acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with distributors, customers, suppliers and employees as a result of our integration of new businesses and new regulations governing international markets. In addition, we may incur costs, including those relating to intangibles or goodwill, in excess of our projected costs for these transactions. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. International operations may be costly, time-consuming and difficult. If we do not successfully operate or expand internationally, our profitability and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our success significantly depends upon our ability to operate in and further penetrate our existing international markets and to enter into new international markets. We have entered and intend to continue to enter markets in which we have limited or no experience and in which our brand may be less recognized. Our international operations have experienced increasingly intense competitive conditions and we may fail to anticipate competitive conditions in new or existing markets. These competitive conditions may make it difficult or impossible for us to effectively operate in these markets. To further promote our brand and generate demand for our products so as to attract distributors in international markets, we have and expect to continue to spend more on marketing and promotion than we do in our established markets. We may be unable to attract a sufficient number of distributors, and our selected distributors may not be suitable for selling our products. If our international operations and expansion efforts are unsuccessful, our profitability and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents We are exposed to other risks associated with international operations, including: • political instability; • economic instability and recessions; • difficulties of administering foreign operations generally; • fluctuations in local currencies against the Renminbi and U.S. dollars; • implementation of foreign exchange controls, which may affect customers’ ability to remit payment; • limited protection for intellectual property rights and exposure to intellectual property litigation in the countries in which we do business; • obligations and compliance costs associated with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulatory requirements (e.g. import and licensing laws and local employment/labor laws and regulations); • changes in tariffs; • burdens on working capital due to financing issues for our accounts receivables, particularly in developing markets; • healthcare reforms; • increased risk of exposure to terrorist activities; • difficulties obtaining raw materials or product supplies or other logistical issues due to natural disasters; • financial condition, expertise and performance of our international distributors; • unauthorized re-export of our products; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • inability to effectively enforce contractual or legal rights. Consolidation of our customer base and the formation of group purchasing organizations could adversely affect our business. Consolidation among health-care providers, such as the National Health Service in the United Kingdom and the consolidation of hospital groups in the United States, have resulted in consolidated healthcare entities that reduce local competition and increase pricing pressures on us. This consolidation may also lead to changes in our customer portfolios and in the types of products that they will demand. Additionally, as consolidation of such health-care providers continues, we may require increased costs in order to market our products and successfully maintain our existing sales relationships. Increased pricing pressures and increased costs could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In the United States and Europe, the formation of group purchasing organizations, or GPOs, has resulted in increased competition and pricing pressures, as GPOs historically purchase items at bulk discounts and prefer to buy the majority of products from fewer brands to maximize preferred pricing. Additionally, certain for-profit GPOs may require steep discounts in order to meet their profit margins, and may also be solely responsible for purchases by groups of hospitals or healthcare clinics in a specific region. If we are unable to enter into contracts with GPOs and integrated health networks on satisfactory terms or at all, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth may be adversely impacted if we lose their services. Our success significantly depends upon the continued service of our key executives and other key employees. In November 2012, Mr. Xu Hang, one of our founders, resigned as our co-chief executive officer, a 8 Table of Contents position he had held since 1991. Mr. Xu continues to serve as the chairman of our board of directors. In June 2013, we appointed Mr. Cheng Minghe as our co-chief executive officer alongside Mr. Li Xiting. We also expanded our executive team by adding a chief administrative officer, currently held by Mr. Wang Jianxin. Although we have not experienced any interruptions to business from these changes in our senior management, further changes may not be equally successful. If we are unable to maintain a strong senior management team or integrate new senior management members, or if we cannot locate suitable and qualified replacements, our business and growth could be adversely impacted. Furthermore, as we expect to continue to expand our operations and develop new products, we will need to continue attracting and retaining experienced management, key research and development personnel, and salespeople. Competition for personnel in the medical technology field is intense, and the pool of suitable and qualified candidates is limited in China, particularly Shenzhen, and certain other markets, including the United States. We compete for qualified research and development personnel against other medical device companies, universities and research institutions. Competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we grant share incentive awards, such awards may cease to be effective to retain our current employees once the shares vest and bonus amounts are paid. Failure to attract and retain experienced personnel required to achieve our business objectives could adversely impact our business and growth. Our business faces intense competition, which may reduce demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The medical device market is highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify. In particular, we face direct competition in China, the United States. and globally across all product lines and price points, experiencing significant pricing pressures in recent years. Our competitors include publicly traded and privately held multinational companies, as well as local companies in the markets where we sell our products. We face competition from companies that have or may have: • greater financial and other resources; • larger variety of products; • lower cost structures, and more domestic support or local protection through tariff and non-tariff barriers; • more products that have received regulatory approvals; • greater access to public equity markets or financing options; • greater pricing flexibility; • availability of financing for our customers; • better research and development and technical capabilities; • patent portfolios that may present an obstacle to our conduct of business; • greater knowledge of market conditions in places where we seek to increase our international sales; • capability to offer vendor financing or offer or facilitate leasing arrangements; • stronger brand recognition; and • larger sales and distribution networks. As a result, we may be unable to offer products similar to, or more desirable than, those offered by our competitors, market our products as effectively as our competitors, or otherwise respond successfully to competitive pressures. In addition, our competitors may be able to offer discounts on competing products as part of a bundle of non-competing products, systems and services that they sell to our customers, and we may not be 9 Table of Contents able to match those discounts. Furthermore, our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently offer or that render our products obsolete or uncompetitive. In addition, the introduction of competing products could affect our products’ market acceptance and market share. Our failure to compete successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects. Moreover, some of our competitors based outside China have established or are in the process of establishing production and research and development facilities in China, while others have entered into cooperative business arrangements with Chinese manufacturers. These actions may improve our competitors’ cost structure, distribution capabilities, and market access and acceptance. For details of the competitors, please refer to Item 4, “Information on the Company — Competition.” In particular, competition in the market covering county-level hospitals has intensified recently in China. This change is mainly attributable to the increasing entry of multinational companies through acquisitions of established PRC companies. If we are unable to develop competitive products, obtain regulatory approval or clearance and supply sufficient quantities to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors, market acceptance of our products may be limited, which could result in decreased sales. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our manufacturing cost advantage. In other emerging markets, we have also seen larger competitors setting up sizable local businesses or acquiring local competitors or distributors, which allow them to be more competitive in their pricing and distribution infrastructure. Furthermore, potential competitors may move from their established market segments into market segments we have historically focused on and we may not be able to maintain our lead in our historically dominant market segments. If we fail to accurately project demand for our products, we may encounter problems of inadequate supply or oversupply, especially with respect to our international markets and government tender sales in China, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as damage our reputation and brand. Our distributors typically order our products on a purchase-order basis. We project product demand based on rolling distributor projections, our understanding of anticipated hospital procurement spending, and distributor inventory levels. However, our lack of significant order backlog and the varying sales and purchasing cycles of our distributors and other customers make it difficult for us to accurately forecast demand. In countries where we lack a direct sales force, our demand projections are generally less reliable than in countries where we have a direct sales force because we have less available information on which to base our projections. Specifically, we lack consistently reliable information regarding international distributor inventory levels in these markets, and we sometimes lack extensive knowledge of local market conditions or about distributor purchasing patterns, preferences, or cycles. Furthermore, because shipping finished products to international distributors typically takes longer than shipping to domestic distributors, inaccurate demand projections can result more quickly in unmet demand. We additionally may have unpredictably large tender sales orders for which we may have insufficient inventory to fill along with the additional orders in our pipeline. If we overestimate demand, we may purchase more raw materials or components than required. If we underestimate demand, our third-party suppliers may have inadequate raw material or product component inventories, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay shipments, and could result in lost sales. In particular, we are seeking to manage our procurement and inventory costs by matching our inventories closely with our projected manufacturing needs and by, from time to time, deferring our purchase of raw materials and components in anticipation of supplier price reductions. As we seek to balance inventory costs and production flexibility, we may fail to accurately forecast demand to predict and maintain appropriate levels of inventory reserve, which could cause uneven and unpredictable sales flow or could affect our ability to coordinate our procurement and production to meet demand on a timely basis. Our inability to accurately predict or timely meet demand could materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations as well as damage our reputation and brand. 10 Table of Contents Failure to ensure compliance with anti-corruption laws could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and damage our reputation and sales activities. We could be liable for violations of applicable law, including China’s anti-corruption laws, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, the Bribery Act 2010 of England and Wales, or the UK Bribery Act, and applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of other jurisdictions in which we do business, arising in connection with the marketing and distribution of our products. Due to the conditions of competition in the markets for medical devices in China and other emerging markets, we believe that corrupt practices may still occur within our industry. Such practices in China may involve inappropriate and unlawful payments or favors to influence procurement decision of customers, regulatory approval decisions of the China Food and Drug Administration, or CFDA, and clinical trials conducted by Chinese hospitals and medical institutions. Many of the individuals involved in these processes would qualify as “foreign government officials” under the FCPA, and improper payments to such recipients may violate the antibribery provisions of the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws. Additionally, as we have sales offices in the United Kingdom and employ UK citizens, we may be subject to the commercial bribery provisions of the UK Bribery Act, which applies to non-government officials. Numerous enforcement actions by government authorities in the United States, China, and other jurisdictions have involved corruption in the medical device industry. Despite our compliance efforts, we cannot guarantee that our employees will not intentionally violate applicable anti-corruption laws. Because individual employees may find it difficult in some circumstances to distinguish appropriate practice from inappropriate practices for establishing and maintaining business relationships with business contacts, our employees could inadvertently violate applicable anti-corruption laws. We may also be held liable for actions taken by our distributors in some circumstances, even though a majority of our distributors are non-U.S. or non-UK companies that are not subject to the FCPA or the UK Bribery Act. Our distributors may violate these laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices with respect to their sales or marketing of our products. If we or our distributors violate these laws, we could be required to pay damages or fines, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our brand, reputation and our sales activities could be adversely affected by any negative publicity resulting from actions taken by us or our distributors. Activities taken by us or our distributors in countries subject to U.S. economic sanctions could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, administers U.S. economic sanctions laws that prohibit certain activities with certain countries, governments, entities or individuals. We sell our products in international markets directly and also through independent distributors, which are responsible for interacting with the end-users of our products. Although we have implemented internal controls to screen our customers and prevent our products from being directly sold to or sold through distributors to countries or entities subject to U.S. sanctions, failure of such internal controls could cause our products to inadvertently be sold to customers who are subject to U.S. sanctions, which would subject us to penalties ranging from fines to prohibitions on imports of our products. Certain of our independent non-U.S. distributors are also located in or conduct business with countries subject to U.S. economic sanctions, such as Cuba, North Korea, Sudan, Iran, Syria and Myanmar. Although none of these distributors are U.S.-based, do not sell U.S. origin products in those countries and are therefore unlikely to be subject to U.S. economic sanctions laws. Any sales or actions inconsistent with company policy relating to violations of U.S. sanctions laws would materially and adversely affect our reputation and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In the United States, Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 requires specific disclosure of certain dealings with Iran, including transactions or dealings with government-owned entities and entities sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or the proliferation of weapons of mass 11 Table of Contents destruction. We sell certain non-military use medical devices and equipment through independent distributors who resell such devices in Iran on a purchase-order basis. Our direct activities in Iran are limited to occasional visits to provide distributor training and to conduct customer surveys. In 2013, net revenues generated by distributors covering Iran amounted to $3.7 million, representing 0.3% of our total net revenues. We do not believe that our Iranian distributors fall within any of the relevant categories. However, as we do not have direct knowledge of the identity of the distributors’ downstream customers, it is possible that these customers include entitles, such as hospitals and pharmacies that are owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Iranian government or by sanctioned persons or entities. Following a review of our business with Iran, we do not anticipate any change in our business operations in Iran in the near future. New regulations related to “conflict minerals” may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. On August 22, 2012, the SEC adopted a new rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The rule requires us to perform due diligence, disclose and report by May 31, 2014 whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. Among other things, this new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. To comply with this new rule, we are conducting due diligence with our suppliers to determine the sources of the relevant minerals used in the parts provided by them. There may be additional costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. Our reputation and trading prices of our securities may be negatively affected by adverse publicity related to our business. Beginning in late 2013, we were subject to negative publicity resulting from a series of reports published by an entity that holds itself out as a research firm resulting in volatility in the trading price of our ADSs. The reports contained numerous allegations with respect to, among other things, the accuracy of our financial statements, the existence of our assets (including cash and capital investments and assets acquired in our 2008 Datascope patient monitoring business acquisition), and our corporate structure and governance matters. Our management and audit committee, and then our full board, evaluated the allegations and determined them not to merit further investigation or changes to our prior year financial statement disclosure. However, additional allegations (such as alleged failures to comply with legal and regulatory requirements or accounting or financial reporting irregularities) and any corresponding adverse publicity related to our business, regardless of merit, could harm our reputation, cause the trading price of our securities to decline and fluctuate significantly, require additional responsive actions and delay our public reporting process. Our business may be adversely affected by recent healthcare reforms, particularly in China and the United States. In 2011, the Chinese government released its 12th Five-Year Plan, the guidance for social, economic and environmental development for the country over the next five years. The 12th Five-Year Plan discussed efforts to deepen the reform of China’s health care system, including increased allowances for medical insurance plans in both rural and urban areas and expanding the coverage of the country’s essential medicine system to village 12 Table of Contents clinics and non-government-run primary healthcare institutions and ensuring universal access to basic health care services. These PRC healthcare reform acts and future healthcare reform could adversely affect our business in several ways, including: • Reduced demand for our products. Healthcare reforms may provide funding and incentives for specific products we do not provide or target customers such as larger hospitals that currently account for a smaller portion of our customer base. • Pricing pressures. Our existing customers may be incentivized by healthcare reform subsidies or tax incentives to defer purchases of our products in favor of those which are subsidized or have beneficial tax implications. • Changes in customer spending patterns. Healthcare reform may additionally be targeted at individuals rather than hospitals, which could affect the spending patterns of our customers in ways we may not be able to anticipate. For example, increased insurance coverage for PRC residents under the healthcare reform initiative could potentially increase patronage at larger sized hospitals rather than county-level hospitals and local clinics, lowering our sales to such county-level hospitals and local clinics. On March 23, 2010, the United States passed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, shortly thereafter amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the Reconciliation Act, on March 30, 2010. The Reconciliation Act added section 4191 to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which imposed an excise tax, effective as of January 1, 2013, on the sale of non-retail medical devices by the manufacturer, producer or importer in the amount equal to 2.3% of the sales price. Under the legislation, the total cost to the medical device industry is expected to be approximately $20 billion over 10 years. Based on the existing size of our U.S. operations, we do not expect the new tax to materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows and results of operations. We incurred $1.9 million of these excise taxes in 2013. The law also focuses on a number of Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs. It is uncertain at this point what negative unintended consequences these provisions will have on patient access to new technologies. The Medicare provisions include value-based payment programs, increased funding of comparative effectiveness research, reduced hospital payments for avoidable readmissions and hospital acquired conditions, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies that promote care coordination (such as bundled physician and hospital payments). Additionally, the law includes a reduction in the annual rate of inflation for Medicare payments to hospitals that began in 2011 and the establishment of an independent payment advisory board to recommend ways of reducing the rate of growth in Medicare spending beginning in 2014. We cannot predict what health care programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation. However, any changes that lower reimbursement for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Heightened regulatory scrutiny could divert management’s attention, increase our compliance and reporting costs, cause reputational harm and result in litigation. We believe there has been a heightened U.S. regulatory environment for public companies over the last several years, particularly those based in China. Increased regulatory scrutiny can divert management’s attention and increase legal, compliance, and reporting costs. In the past, we have devoted resources, time, and attention providing information to the SEC’s divisions of corporation finance as part of a review of our 2011 annual report and enforcement as part of an investigation regarding, among other things, revenue recognition policies, distributor and direct sales, accounts receivable and related collections, and intangible assets. There can be no assurances that the investigation has been concluded and the SEC may make additional inquiries, in the context of an investigation or otherwise. Responding to any additional inquiries from the SEC and other regulators, on those or other matters, could further divert management’s attention, increase our legal, compliance, and reporting costs, cause reputational harm, delay our public reporting process depending on timing and result in litigation which may be costly to defend regardless of merit. 13 Table of Contents We currently principally rely on four facilities for manufacturing, product assembly and storage and to conduct research and development activities. Any disruption to the use or development of our current manufacturing facilities could reduce or restrict our sales, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We manufacture, assemble and store a substantial majority of our products, as well as conduct some of our research and development activities, at our three facilities located in Shenzhen, China. We also manufacture, assemble and store products and conduct some of our research and development activities at our facility in Nanjing, China. We do not maintain other back-up facilities, so we depend on these facilities for the continued operation of our business. A natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruptions, water shortage, storms, fires, earthquakes, terrorist attacks and wars, could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business, as well as delay our research and development activities. Our facilities and certain equipment located in these facilities would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Catastrophic events may also destroy any inventory located in our facilities. The occurrence of such an event could materially and adversely affect our business. We may experience difficulties that disrupt our manufacturing activities, management and administration, or research and development as we migrate and expand into this facility. We may also encounter difficulties obtaining regulatory approval for construction and development. Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our development of this facility. Any of these factors could reduce or restrict our sales, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of required materials and components that meet our production standards at acceptable costs or at all, our ability to accept and fulfill product orders with the required quality and at the required time could be restricted, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase raw materials and components from third party suppliers and manufacture and assemble our products at our facilities. We generally make purchases on a purchase order basis and do not have long-term supply contracts. As a result, our suppliers may cease to provide components or other materials to us with little or no advance notice. From time to time we may also have contract disputes or other negotiations with our suppliers and our original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and original design manufacturers, or ODMs. Interruptions in certain material or component supplies, sometimes caused by natural disasters or factors not within our control, could delay our manufacturing and assembly processes. We also may be unable to secure alternative supply sources in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of required materials and components that meet our production standards at acceptable costs or at all, our ability to accept and fulfill product orders with the required quality, and at the required time could be restricted, which, in turn, could impact our working capital, harm our reputation, reduce our sales or gross margins, and cause us to lose market share, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuing our growth strategy will strain our management, operational and other resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. Our growth strategy includes increasing market penetration of our existing products, developing or acquiring new products, increasing our targeting of large-sized hospitals in China, strengthening our coverage of county-level hospitals, increasing our exports, and building our brand. Implementing our growth strategy has resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial demands on management, operational and other resources. In particular, pursuing our growth strategy requires, among other things: • enhancing our research and development capabilities; • hiring and training new personnel; 14 Table of Contents • managing distribution channels for our increased product portfolio; • enhancing our information technology and client-relationship management systems; • implementing more stringent cost controls; • maintaining sufficient liquidity; • strengthening financial and management controls; and • increasing marketing, sales and sales support activities. If we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategy, our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We may need additional capital, and we may be unable to obtain such capital in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. We may need additional capital to grow, remain competitive, develop new or enhance existing products, expand our distribution network, for capital improvement projects and/or for acquisitions. Our ability to obtain additional capital is subject to numerous uncertainties, including: • our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for capital raising activities by medical device and related companies; • economic, political and other conditions in China and internationally; and • PRC government policies relating to the borrowing and remittance of foreign currency outside of China. We may be unable to obtain additional capital or relocate our existing capital, particularly amounts held in Renminbi or RMB-denominated assets, in a timely manner or on acceptable terms or at all. Such inability could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. For further discussion on the affects of government policies relating to the borrowing and remittance of foreign currency outside of China, please see “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — We may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary to fund cash and financing requirements, and limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends to us may have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business” and “— Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our working capital effectively.” We depend on information technology, or IT, to support our business operations, and any physical damage to or failure of our IT systems would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. We have a globally integrated IT infrastructure consistent across our China, the United States and European operations. This integrated IT infrastructure is complicated by broad geographies, differing languages and business models. Our primary China-based IT operations are located in Shenzhen and include our data center, production, standby facilities and backup storage. We also have smaller local IT operations at our sites in the United States and Europe. Any physical damage to our IT systems, including by natural disasters or intentional acts of vandalism, would create significant disruptions to our business and operations and would be costly to repair. Additionally, any failure of our IT systems across our China, U.S. and European operations could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention, which could harm our business, results of operations and prospects. 15 Table of Contents The lessors of some of our leased properties may have lacked authority to enter into the leases. If we are forced to vacate these premises, it could materially disrupt our operations. Shenzhen Mindray leases properties for manufacturing purposes. The lessors failed to provide us with the ownership certificates for the leased properties. If the lessors entering into the lease agreements with Shenzhen Mindray are not the de facto owners of the leased properties and lacked the authority to enter into these lease agreements, the validity of these lease agreements may be contested and we may be forced to vacate these premises, which could materially disrupt our operations. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, it could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and non-disclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. We have patents issued in China and the United States covering various products and aspects of our products. We also have pending patent applications in China, the United States, Europe and India, which cover some of the more commercially significant aspects of our products and technologies. Due to the different regulatory bodies and varying requirements in the United States, China and elsewhere, we may be unable to obtain patent protection for certain aspects of our products or technologies in any of these countries. The process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive, our patent applications may fail to result in patents being issued, and our existing and future patents may be insufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Our patents and patent applications may also be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We also rely on trade secret rights to protect our business through non-disclosure provisions in employment agreements with employees. If our China-based employees breach their non-disclosure obligations, we may not have adequate remedies in China, and our trade secrets may become known to our competitors. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and enforcement difficulties. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other western countries. Furthermore, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we may need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. Such litigation and an adverse determination in any such litigation, if any, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention, which could harm our business and competitive position. We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement and other claims by third parties which, if successful, could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing third-party intellectual property rights. We periodically receive written correspondence regarding alleged intellectual property infringement or other claims by third parties, who may also initiate litigation against us. For example, in December 2012, a patent infringement claim was filed against Mindray DS USA and Shenzhen Mindray. See Item 4, “Information on the Company — Legal Proceedings.” Additionally, as we increase our product sales internationally, and as litigation becomes more common in China, we face a higher risk of being the subject of claims for intellectual property infringement, invalidity or indemnification relating to other parties’ proprietary rights. Our current or potential competitors, many of whom have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have or may obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in China, the United States, or Europe. The validity and scope of claims relating to such patents can involve complex scientific, legal and 16 Table of Contents factual questions and analysis and, as a result, may be highly uncertain. In addition, the defense of intellectual property suits, including patent infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. We may be unsuccessful in defending all or even some of the claims brought against us. We may also engage in settlement or other negotiated agreements to avoid further costs associated with defense of intellectual property suits. For example, in 2011, we and certain Datascope entities agreed that we would acquire all rights, title and interest in certain trademarks, service marks and other names in exchange for a one-time payment to Datascope of $7.0 million and the grant to Datascope of an exclusive 20-year limited license of certain of such trademarks, service marks and other names. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could cause us to: • pay damage awards; • seek licenses from third parties; • pay ongoing royalties; • redesign our products; or • be restricted by injunctions, each of which could effectively prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business and result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Disputes over use of our brand names or the brand names we license, the expenses incurred in developing and preserving the value of our brand name, and any loss of rights to use our brand names or the brand names we license as a result of challenge, may adversely affect our business. We regard our brand names as critical to our success. For example, in December 2013 the Trademark Office of the PRC State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, recognized our “Mindray” name as a Well-Known Trademark in medical analysis instruments, medical devices and instruments, and medical diagnostic equipment. Disputes over use of our brand names or the brand names we license may adversely affect our business and reputation, including the perceived quality and reliability of our products. We rely on trademark law, company brand name protection policies, and agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect the value of our brand names. Despite our precautions, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our brand names without authorization, including the unauthorized use of our domain names. We have experienced unauthorized use of our domain names and are currently in the process of reclaiming certain of our domain names in accordance with the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy adopted by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, or ICANN, or licensing the right to use our trademarks. We are also in the process of resolving a trademark registration dispute with a third party in the European Union. We have also experienced unauthorized use of our brand names in China and have expended resources and the attention and time of our management to successfully prosecute those who used our brand names without authorization. Moreover, litigation may be necessary to protect our brand names. However, because the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of trademarks in China are uncertain and still evolving, we may not be successful in prosecuting these cases. Litigation could also result in substantial costs, diversion of our resources and loss of trademark rights, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are in the process of registering our brand names and logos as trademarks in countries outside of China. Our registration applications may not be successful in certain countries, which could weaken the protection of our brand names in those countries or may require that we market our products under different names in those countries. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain or maintain applicable regulatory clearances or approvals for our products, or if such clearances or approvals are delayed, we will be unable to commercially distribute and market our products at all or in a timely manner, which could significantly disrupt our business and materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability. The sale and marketing of the medical device products we offer are subject to regulation in most countries where they are sold. For a significant portion of our sales, we need to obtain and renew licenses and registrations with the CFDA, the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and the European regulators administering CE marks in the European Union. The processes for obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals can be lengthy and expensive, and the results are unpredictable. In addition, the relevant regulatory authorities may introduce additional requirements or procedures that have the effect of delaying or prolonging the regulatory clearance or approval for our existing or new products. From time to time, we are subject to regulatory inspections related to our quality systems and regulatory compliance. For example, in late 2012, following an inspection of our Mahwah, New Jersey, facilities, Mindray DS USA received an FDA warning letter. The warning letter, subsequently made available on the FDA’s website, addressed certain findings and issues regarding our products and quality systems related processes at our Mahwah, New Jersey, and China operations. With the assistance of outside consulting, we evaluated the letter and commenced a process to address these observations and issues. In September 2013, the FDA concluded a re-inspection of the Mahwah, New Jersey, facility noting additional observations and issues. We believe the identified matters are addressable. We have met with, and are continuing to communicate with, the FDA regarding how we can satisfactorily and timely address these matters. However, failure to satisfactorily address on a timely basis these or other FDA concerns or findings (including those identified upon any re-inspection) could result in or subject us to additional inspections in the United States or China; additional warning letters; or more severe FDA actions including significant fines, an embargo on the import of our products into the United States or a consent decree. Related developments could increase our legal, compliance and reporting costs, cause reputational harm, lead to customer and distributor losses, and result in litigation. Also, if we incur FDA fines or penalties or we are unable to obtain clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new products in a timely fashion or at all, our business would be significantly disrupted, and our sales and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to comply with applicable import and export related laws, rules and regulations for our products could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We primarily manufacture our products in China and then sell our products through different distribution channels in different geographies. We must comply with import and export related laws, rules and regulations in every region we do business in. Import and export related laws, rules and regulations differ from region to region and our inability to comply with them may delay or prolong the regulatory clearance or approval for our existing or new products and could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to product liability exposure and have limited insurance coverage. Any product liability claims or regulatory actions could be costly and time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our main products are medical devices used in diagnosing and monitoring patients, exposing us to potential product liability claims if their use causes or results in, or is alleged to have caused or resulted in, in each case either directly or indirectly, personal injuries or other adverse effects. Any product liability claims or regulatory actions could be costly and time-consuming to defend. If successful, product liability claims may require us to pay substantial damages. We maintain limited product liability insurance to cover potential product liability arising from the use of our products. As a result, future liability claims could be excluded or could exceed the coverage limits of our policy. As we expand our sales internationally and increase our exposure to these risks in 18 Table of Contents many countries, we may be unable to maintain sufficient product liability insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A product liability claim or potential safety-related regulatory action, with or without merit, could result in significant negative publicity and materially and adversely affect the marketability of our products and our reputation, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, a material design, manufacturing or quality failure or defect in our products, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny could each warrant a product recall by us and result in increased product liability claims. For example, in August 2012, we initiated a voluntary recall in the United States, Latin America and Australia to repair our A3/A5 Anesthesia Delivery System when we detected the possibility of a system leak. We subsequently advised the FDA of this recall and repaired 100% of affected machines in the United States, with no reports of associated injuries. However, if authorities in the countries where we sell our products decide that any of our products fail to conform to applicable quality and safety requirements, we could be subject to regulatory action. In China, violation of PRC product quality and safety requirements may subject us to confiscation of related earnings, penalties, an order to cease sales of the violating product or to cease operations pending rectification. Furthermore, if the violation is determined to be serious, our business license to manufacture or sell violating and other products could be suspended or revoked. Government tender sales in China have and will likely continue to be a small portion of our revenues. We have historically generated certain portions of our China revenues from government tenders sales. Tender sales in China are a discretionary decision driven by government policies and can vary in terms of magnitude and timing of sales. Due to lack of government spending on tender sales and shift from government tender sales to hospitals’ direct purchases, our revenues from government tender sales in China remained flat and accounted for 1.1% of our net revenues in 2013. We expect our revenues from government tenders to remain relatively stable as a percentage of our net revenues the near future. Our inability to accurately predict trends in government tender sales in China could cause us to underestimate demand and prevent us from timely meeting demand for our products, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. The global economic downturn adversely affected, and could continue adversely affecting, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We experienced a global economic downturn affecting all areas of business, including health care. Disruptions in orderly financial markets resulting from, among other factors, government instability, diminished liquidity and credit availability plus volatile valuations of securities and other investments caused business and consumer confidence to ebb, business activities to slow down, and unemployment to increase. For example, uncertainties surrounding European sovereign debt could affect our direct sales and distribution networks in Europe, while political instability in countries in the Middle East could disrupt our distribution networks in such countries. We are unable to predict global economic conditions. The economic downturn adversely affected and could continue adversely affecting our business in several ways, including: • Reduced demand for our products. Customers may adopt a strategy of deferring purchases to upgrade existing equipment or deploy new equipment until later periods when visibility of their cash flows becomes more assured. In addition, customers who must finance their capital expenditures through various forms of debt may find financing unavailable to them. • Increased pricing pressure and lower margins. Our competitors include several global enterprises with relatively greater size in terms of revenues, working capital, financial resources and number of employees, and some of our end-users are healthcare service providers who are typically owned, controlled, or sponsored by governments. Competition for available sales may become more intense, 19 Table of Contents which could require us to offer or accept pricing, payment, or local content terms which are less favorable to remain competitive. In some cases we might be unwilling or unable to compete for business where competitive pressures make a potential opportunity unprofitable to us. • Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. Many of our end-users are either owned or controlled by governments; any changes in such governments’ policies concerning the authorization or funding of payments for capital expenditures could lengthen the cash collection cycle of our distributors, which could cause our liquidity to deteriorate if our distributors are unable to pay us on time. Additionally, sales made to our distributors or other customers whose financial resources may be subject to rapid decline, has caused and could continue to cause us to lose sales, delaying revenue recognition or causing greater collection risks due to credit quality issues. • Greater difficulty in obtaining supplies, components and related services. Some suppliers or vendors could choose to provide supplies or services to us on more stringent payment terms than those currently in place, such as by requiring advance payment or payment upon delivery of such supplies or services. Additionally, some suppliers might experience a worsening financial condition causing them to either withdraw from the market or be unable to meet our expected timing for the receipt of goods ordered from them, either of which condition could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers and lengthen the cycle time for transforming customer orders into cash receipts. Additionally, if it is necessary to seek alternative sources of supply, the effects on our costs, cycle time for cash collections, and customer satisfaction with us are uncertain. • Restructuring and impairment charges. If we are unable to generate the level of revenues, profits, and cash flow contemplated by our business plan, management may be forced to take further action to focus our business activities and align our cost structure with anticipated revenues. These actions, if necessary could result in restructuring charges and/or asset impairment charges being recognized. The economic downturn has affected, among others, the United States, Europe, the Middle East and North Africa, which we believe has affected medical product purchasing in these regions. The economic downturn could continue adversely affecting our business and could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and could fall below investor expectations, which could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly depending upon numerous factors. In particular, the first and third quarters of each year historically have lower, and the fourth quarter historically has higher revenues and operating results than the other quarters of the year. We believe that our weaker first quarter performance has been largely due to the Chinese Lunar New Year holiday and that our weaker third quarter performance has largely been due to summer holidays. We believe our stronger fourth quarter performance has been largely due to our customers spending their remaining annual budget amounts. Other factors that may affect our quarterly results include: • global economic conditions; • our ability to attract and retain distributors and key customers; • changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • fluctuations in PRC government spending on healthcare and stimulus programs; • healthcare reform in the United States, Europe, the PRC and certain emerging markets; • variations in customer purchasing cycles; • our sales and delivery cycle length; • the timing and market acceptance of new product introductions by us or our competitors; 20 Table of Contents • our ability to expand into and further penetrate international markets; • the timing of receipt of government incentives; • inventory value readjustments due to year-end supplier pricing renegotiation; • changes in the industry operating environment; • changes in government policies or regulations, including new product approval procedures, or their enforcement; and • availability of financing for healthcare facilities. Many of these factors are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline below investor expectations. You should not rely on our results of operations for prior quarters as an indication of our future results. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. As of December 31, 2013, our cash and cash equivalents were mainly denominated in Renminbi, U.S. dollars and Euros. As a result, exchange rate fluctuations between the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar and the Euro affect our relative purchasing power, revenue, expenses and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi and Euro relative to the U.S. dollar could affect our financial results prepared and reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Renminbi is pegged against the U.S. dollar in a manner determined by the People’s Bank of China. Daily fluctuations of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar can rise or fall within a determined band (from April 2012 until March 2014 the band was 1% and in March 2014 was increased to 2%). The Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or the Euro in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued, or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or the Euro. Fluctuations in exchange rates will also affect the relative value of any dividends we issue, which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make. Appreciation of the Renminbi relative to other foreign currencies could decrease the per unit revenues generated from international sales. If we increased our international pricing to compensate for the reduced purchasing power of foreign currencies, we would decrease the market competitiveness, on a price basis, of our products. This could result in a decrease in our international sales volumes. Very limited hedging instruments are available in China to reduce our exposure to Renminbi exchange rate fluctuations. We have entered into certain forward contracts to reduce our exposure to several foreign currencies. However, the effectiveness of these forward contracts may be limited and we may not be able to successfully reduce our exposure. In addition, PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies could magnify our currency exchange risks. See Item 11, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Foreign Currency Risk.” Warranty claims could substantially increase our costs and harm our reputation and brand, and materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We typically sell our main products with warranties against technical defects at terms covering 12-24 months and related accessories with warranties against technical defects at terms covering six months. Our product warranties require us to repair all malfunctions and, if necessary, replace defective components. We accrue liability for potential warranty claims at the time of sale. If we experience an increase in warranty claims or if our repair and replacement costs associated with warranty claims increase significantly, we may have to accrue a greater liability for potential warranty claims. Moreover, an increase in the frequency of warranty claims could substantially increase our costs, harm our reputation and brand, and materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 21 Table of Contents Our principal shareholders substantially control our corporate actions. Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that our shareholders may view as beneficial. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to five votes per share. As of March 31, 2014, three of our shareholders and their affiliated entities beneficially owned approximately 28.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares, representing approximately 64.2% of our voting power due to our dual-class ordinary share structure. Our chairman, Mr. Xu Hang, and co-chief executive officers, Mr. Li Xiting and Mr. Cheng Minghe, through their respective affiliates, hold all of our Class B ordinary shares. These shareholders will continue to exert control over all matters subject to shareholder vote until the total number of Class B ordinary shares they own is collectively less than 20% of the total number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares. This concentration of voting power may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or other business combination, which could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your securities as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the market price of our securities. The interests of Mr. Xu, Mr. Li, and Mr. Cheng as directors, officers and employees of our company may differ from their interests as shareholders of our company or from your interests as a shareholder. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares, including Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving you of an opportunity to sell your shares, including Class A ordinary shares represented by ADSs, at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our Class A ordinary shares. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors authorizes the issuance of preferred shares, the market price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our Class A ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. Certain actions require the approval of at least two-thirds of our board of directors present at the relevant board meeting which, among other things, would allow our non-independent directors to block a variety of actions or transactions, such as a merger, asset sale or other change of control, thereby further depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. In addition, our directors serve staggered terms of three years each, which means that shareholders can elect or remove only a limited number of our directors in any given year. The length of these terms could present an additional obstacle against the taking of action, such as a merger or other change of control, which could be in the interest of our shareholders. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. Depending upon the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 22 Table of Contents We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either: (1) at least 50% of the value of our assets, based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year, is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income or (2) at least 75% of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. According to these technical rules, we would likely become a PFIC if the value of our outstanding ordinary shares and ADSs were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents. We believe we were not a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2013. Although we intend to conduct our business activities in a manner to reduce the risk of our classification as a PFIC in the future, we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets, and, because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market prices of our ordinary shares and ADSs , which are likely to fluctuate, there can no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC for 2014 or any future taxable year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor holds our ordinary shares or ADSs, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. investor. For details, please refer to Item 4.C, “Information on the Company — Taxation.” We may be unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, and as a result we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, requires that we include a report from management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 20-F. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm and our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2013. Our management’s or our independent public accounting firm’s failure to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Our reporting obligations as a public company will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting processes, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the market price of our ADSs. The trading prices of our ADSs have been, and are likely to continue to be, volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. Between September 26, 2006 and April 25, 2014, the trading price of our ADSs on the NYSE ranged from $12.31 to $45.19 per ADS, and the last reported sale price on April 25, 2014 was $32.43 per ADS. The trading prices of our ADSs could fluctuate widely in response to factors beyond our control. Broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance, including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other IT services companies; • announcements by our competitors of new services, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • technological breakthroughs in the services outsourcing industry; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the Renminbi and U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies; 23 Table of Contents • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs; and • general market conditions or other developments affecting us, our industry or the global economy. In addition, the performance, and fluctuation in market prices, of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes of our ADSs. Volatility in global capital markets, such a global financial crisis and the European debt crisis, could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Furthermore, short sellers and other funds may take a short position or positions in our ADSs for the specific purpose of driving down market price for our ADSs. Short sellers may also publish articles or other allegations in conjunction with such attacks. Even when there is no truth to their claims and we rebut their allegations, such attacks can have a material impact on the market price of our ADSs and divert management resources and attention. The securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may also be highly volatile for specific business reasons including variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new services, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, addition or departure of our senior management and other key personnel and potential litigation or administrative investigations. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and trading price of our ADSs. If we were involved in a class action suit or other securities litigation or investigation relating to such volatility, our senior management and resources would be diverted and we would incur significant expenses. Whether or not adversely determined, any litigation or investigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Changes in China’s economic, political and social conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We conduct a substantial portion of our business operations in China and derived over 45% of our 2013 revenues from sales in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected to a significant degree by economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage, but also to control, economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations applicable to us. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Our PRC operating subsidiaries are foreign-invested enterprises and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China as well as laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. These laws and regulations change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court 24 Table of Contents proceedings to enforce the legal protections that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into. As a result, these uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with and obtain approvals from relevant PRC government authorities in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents in connection with our prior and any future offshore acquisitions. The SAFE regulation required registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies prior to the implementation of the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies on November 1, 2005. In addition, the SAFE regulation required subsequent change registration for any change of shareholder structure of offshore companies held by PRC residents. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, including the change registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. We previously notified and urged our shareholders, and the shareholders of the offshore entities in our corporate group, who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications and filings, including the change registration, as required under this regulation for our initial public offering and our subsequent secondary offerings. However, different local SAFE offices may have different views on application and implementation of the SAFE regulations in practice, and it is unclear how these SAFE regulations and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. While we believe that these shareholders submitted applications with local SAFE offices, some of our shareholders may not comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by the regulation or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to obtain any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. We may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary to fund cash and financing requirements, and limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends to us may have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary Shenzhen Mindray for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. If Shenzhen Mindray incurs debt on its own behalf, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and 25 Table of Contents regulations permit payments of dividends by Shenzhen Mindray and our other PRC subsidiaries only out of their respective retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries are required to set aside a portion of their respective net income each year to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2013, the amount of these restricted portions of our PRC subsidiaries was approximately $35.4 million. As a result of these PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries are restricted in their abilities to transfer a portion of their respective net reserves to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us may adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our working capital effectively. A significant portion of our revenues and a majority of our operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions. Currently, Shenzhen Mindray and Nanjing Mindray may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions,” including payment of dividends to us, without the approval of SAFE. Pursuant to the relevant regulations, a company applying for the remittance of dividends should provide to the bank handling the remittance: (i) board resolutions on the distribution of profits and dividends, (ii) a capital verification report issued by an accounting firm, and (iii) an audit report on the company’s financial condition during the current year. These procedural requirements generally do not pose any risk to a wholly foreign-owned company’s ability to remit dividends to its offshore parent. Although the Renminbi has been fully convertible for current account transaction since 1996, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, and of foreign currencies into Renminbi, for payments relating to “capital account transactions,” which include among other things investments, loans and acquisitions of land and other fixed assets overseas, generally requires the approval of SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. Restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi for capital account transactions could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make investments overseas or to obtain foreign currency through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. In particular, if Shenzhen Mindray or Nanjing Mindray borrows foreign currency from us or other foreign lenders, it must do so within approved limits that satisfy their approval documentation and PRC debt to equity ratio requirements. Further, such loans must be registered with SAFE or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that the registration process will not delay or prevent our conversion of Renminbi for use outside of China. We are exploring new means of transferring funds within our corporate group under a SAFE Circular on Further Improving and Adjusting Foreign Exchange Policies on Direct Investment, or Circular 59, including a three-year cross-border Renminbi intra-group loan facility. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not implement new restrictions in the future. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or the financial incentives currently available to us in China could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The China Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementing rules became effective on January 1, 2008. The EIT Law significantly curtails tax incentives granted to foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, under the previous tax law. The EIT Law, however, (i) reduces the top EIT rate from 33% to 25%, (ii) permits companies to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, subject to certain transitional phase-out rules, and (iii) introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. The EIT Law and its implementing rules permit qualified “New and Hi-Tech Enterprises” to enjoy a reduced 15% EIT rate. Nanjing Mindray had obtained a qualification certificate of New and Hi-Tech Enterprises status on December 13, 2010, with a valid period of three years from 2010 to 2012. The status was renewed in September 2013 for another three years and will expire by the end of 2015. Shenzhen Mindray had obtained a qualification certificate of New and Hi-Tech Enterprise status on December 16, 2008, with a valid period of three years from 2008 to 2010, and 26 Table of Contents the status was subsequently renewed in October 2011 for another three years and expired at the end of 2013. Beijing Mindray had obtained a qualification certificate of New and Hi-Tech Enterprises status on December 24, 2008, with a valid period of three years starting from 2008 to 2010, and the status was subsequently renewed in October 2011 for another three years and expired at the end of 2013. Additionally, Shenzhen Mindray Software had obtained a qualification certificate of New and Hi-Tech Enterprise status on November 11, 2013, with a valid period of three years from 2013 to 2015. However, the continued qualification for New and Hi-Tech Enterprise Status will still be subject to evaluation by the relevant government authority in China. In addition, Nanjing Mindray, Shenzhen Mindray, Beijing Mindray and Shenzhen Mindray Software will need to apply for an additional three-year extension upon the expiration of the current qualification if they desire to continue to enjoy the 15% reduced rate. Beijing Mindray and Shenzhen Mindray currently are in the process of applying for extensions of their New and Hi-Tech Enterprise Status. Shenzhen Mindray was also awarded “Nationwide Key Software Enterprise” status for the calendar years from 2009 through 2014, which allows Shenzhen Mindray to enjoy a unified 10% EIT rate for these years under the tax policies for software and integrated circuit industries. Currently, the Nationwide Key Software Enterprise status is granted every two years by the relevant government authority in China. Shenzhen Mindray may not be granted this status for any future years. Under the phase-out rules of EIT Law, enterprises established before the promulgation date of the EIT Law and which were granted preferential EIT treatment under the then effective tax laws or regulations may continue to enjoy their preferential tax treatments until their expiration. Accordingly, Beijing Mindray, an enterprise established before the promulgation date of the EIT Law, was entitled to a preferential treatment under the phase-out rules, under which it enjoyed a 50% reduction to the EIT for the taxable years 2008 to 2010. Another PRC subsidiary, Nanjing Mindray, was entitled to an EIT exemption from 2008 to 2009 and a 50% tax reduction from 2010 to 2012. The PRC tax policies, interpretations and practices regarding the overlap, phase-out and transition of preferential treatments is subject to continuous change and uncertainty and we cannot assure you that Shenzhen Mindray, Beijing Mindray, Nanjing Mindray and Shenzhen Mindray Software will continue to qualify as New and Hi-Tech Enterprises under the EIT Law, enjoy the preferential treatments under the phase-out rules, not encounter any challenges regarding past application of such treatments, or that the local tax authorities will not, in the future, change their position and revoke any of our past preferential tax treatments. The discontinuation of any of our preferential tax treatments could materially increase our tax obligations. Pursuant to a PRC tax policy intended to encourage the development of software and integrated circuit industries, our primary operating subsidiary in China, Shenzhen Mindray, has been entitled to a refund of VAT at a maximum rate of 14% of the sale value of self-developed software that is embedded in our products since 2001. In addition, this VAT refund policy is extended after its expiration at end of 2010 by the State Council on January 28, 2011 by promulgation of the Notice on Printing and Distribution of Several Policies to Further Stimulate the Development of Software and Integrate Circuit Industries, without a specific term for the extension however. The amount of VAT refunds included in revenue in 2011, 2012 and 2013 was $21.5 million, $26.9 million and $28.4 million, respectively. While Shenzhen Mindray and certain of our PRC subsidiaries expect to continue to qualify for the VAT refund, we cannot assure you that they will not encounter any challenges regarding such VAT refund from local tax authorities in the future. We typically receive government subsidies for the development of new high technology medical products and purchase of export credit insurance as well as PRC government incentives for making high technology investments in their region, filing patent applications for new inventions and optimizing their foreign trade structure on an irregular basis, and amounts received tend to fluctuate significantly. While we intend to continue applying for government subsidies and government incentives, we may not receive any in the future. Any increase in the EIT rate applicable to us or discontinuation or reduction of any of the preferential tax treatments or financial incentives currently enjoyed by our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entity could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents We may be classified as a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. This classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. The EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% EIT rate on their worldwide income. A tax circular issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009, or Circular 82 regarding the standards used to classify certain Chinese-controlled enterprises established outside of China as “resident enterprises” states that dividends paid by such “resident enterprises” and other income paid by such “resident enterprises” will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when received or recognized by non-PRC resident enterprise shareholders. This circular also subjects such “resident enterprises” to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. Under the implementation rules to the EIT Law, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and assets of an enterprise. In addition, Circular 82 mentioned above specifies that certain Chinese-controlled enterprises will be classified as “resident enterprises” if the following are located or resident in China: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision-making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of senior management or directors having voting rights. Currently, there is no specific regulation determining that offshore companies controlled by PRC individuals or foreign corporations like us are PRC resident enterprises. Circular 82 applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreign corporations like us, therefore Circular 82 does not apply to us directly. However, the State Administration of Taxation may take the view that the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 reflects general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of all offshore enterprises. it can be a good reference and provides some guidance to “de facto management body” test. Currently, Although a substantial majority of the members of our management team as well as the management team of some of our offshore holding companies are located in China. However, there are some criteria by reference to Circular 82 which we do not clearly fall into. Therefore, Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreign corporations like us. In in the absence of detailed implementing regulations or other guidance determining that offshore companies controlled by PRC individuals or foreign corporations like us are PRC resident enterprises, we do not currently consider our Cayman Islands company or any of our overseas subsidiaries to be a PRC resident enterprise. However, the State Administration of Taxation may take the view that the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 reflects general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of all offshore enterprises. Or additional implementing regulations or guidance may be issued determining that our Cayman Islands company is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise,” a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we will be subject to income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income and reporting obligations. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid to our Hong Kong company and ultimately to our Cayman Islands company from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempted income,” we cannot assure you that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC EIT purposes. Finally, a withholding tax of 10% for our non-PRC enterprise investors or potentially an individual income tax of 20% for individual investors will be imposed on dividends we pay to them and with respect to gains derived by such investors from transferring our shares or ADSs. In addition to the uncertainty in how the new “resident enterprise” classification could apply, it is also possible that the rules may change in the future, possibly with retroactive effect. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our foreign shareholders and ADS holders who are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our shares or ADSs 28 Table of Contents under the circumstances mentioned above, the value of your investment in our shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. It is unclear whether, if we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” holders of our shares or ADSs would be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties or agreements entered into between China and other countries or areas. We may be unable to enjoy the favorable 5% treaty-based rate of income tax withholding for any dividends our PRC subsidiaries pay to us through our Hong Kong holding companies. Prior to January 1, 2008, dividends derived by foreign enterprises from business operations in China were not subject to the PRC enterprise income tax. However, such tax exemption ceased after January 1, 2008 with the effectiveness of the EIT Law and a withholding tax rate of 10% will apply on such dividends (subject to reductions by the relevant tax treaties, if applicable). According to the Notice of the State Administration of Taxation on Summary Table of Treaty Rates for Dividends, or Circular 112, which was issued on January 29, 2008 and the Arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Evasion, or the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong), which became effective on December 8, 2006, dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiary may be subject to a withholding tax at a reduced rate of 5% if such Hong Kong entity owns at least 25% of the equity interest of the PRC company. In addition, the PRC State Administration of Taxation promulgated a tax notice on October 27, 2009, or Circular 601, which provides that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance, and a beneficial ownership analysis with the unfavorable factor tests will be used based on a “substance-over-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant tax treaty benefits. On June 29, 2012, the State Administration of Taxation further issued the Announcement regarding Recognition of “Beneficial Owner” under Tax Treaties, or Announcement 30, which provides that a comprehensive analysis should be made when determining the beneficial owner status based on various factors that supported by various types of documents including the articles of association, financial statements, records of cash movements, board meeting minutes, board resolutions, staffing and materials, relevant expenditures, functions and risk assumption as well as relevant contracts and other information. On April 12, 2013, the State Administration of Taxation further issued an opinion, or Circular 165, which explains how to apply the unfavorable factor test described in Circular 601, as well as provides relevant interpretations on Announcement 30 in beneficial ownership analysis. As a result, although our PRC subsidiaries are currently wholly-owned by our Hong Kong subsidiary, we cannot assure you that we would be entitled to the tax treaty benefits and enjoy the favorable 5% rate applicable under the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong) on dividends. If our Hong Kong subsidiaries would not be considered to be the beneficial owners of any such dividends, such dividends would as a result be subject to income tax withholding at the rate of 10% rather than the favorable 5% rate applicable under the tax treaty between mainland China and Hong Kong. Proceedings instituted recently by the SEC against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including an affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including an affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ work papers related to their audits of certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States and which are the subject of certain ongoing SEC investigations. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, sanctioning these accounting firms and suspending them from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The sanction will not take effect until there is an order of effectiveness issued by the SEC. Any Commission endorsement or other determination itself could be appealed by the 29 Table of Contents accounting firms in the U.S. court system. On February 12, 2014, the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms initiated a review of the initial administrative law decision to the SEC. We were not and are not involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against these accounting firms. While we cannot predict the outcome of the SEC Commission’s review nor that of any subsequent appeal process, if these accounting firms are ultimately temporarily denied the ability to practice before the SEC, our auditor may no longer be able to have their PRC-based affiliate carry out audit procedures on our Mainland China operations and our ability to file our financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could be impacted. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit documentation related to their audit report included in this annual report may be located in the People’s Republic of China. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board currently cannot inspect audit documentation located in China and, as such, you may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“the “PCAOB”) and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because we have substantial operations within the People’s Republic of China and the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditors as it relates to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditor’s work related to our operations in China is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. This lack of PCAOB inspections of audit work performed in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audit work of any auditors that was performed in China including that performed by our auditors. As a result, investors may be deprived of the full benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of audit work performed in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures as compared to auditors in other jurisdictions that are subject to PCAOB inspections on all of their work. 