Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are important risks and uncertainties we have identified that could materially affect our future results. You should consider them carefully when evaluating forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and otherwise made by us or on our behalf because these contingencies could cause actual results and circumstances to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The Company’s actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. If any of those contingencies actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We have been in operation since June 2004, which may not serve as an adequate time frame to evaluate our business, results of operations and prospects and may increase the risk of your investment. Because of our limited operating history, our historical results of operations may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, results of operations and prospects. You should evaluate our business, results of operations and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter as an early-stage company in a highly competitive industry, including our potential inability to: • successfully compete for transaction opportunities; • raise debt and equity capital on attractive terms; • continue to grow and manage our growth effectively; • accurately forecast the level of credit losses that we may experience in our loan portfolio; • successfully hire and retain key personnel; or • effectively manage our business. We may not be able to successfully address these risks and difficulties, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. We have incurred losses in the past as a startup company, and have not yet achieved profitability and may not achieve profitability in future periods. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we recorded net losses of $8.6 million, $27.2 million and $5.9 million, respectively. The loss for 2007 is primarily due to a loss of $30.6 million on our residual interest in a securitization and a loss of $20.3 million due to the recognition of impairments of investments in debt securities. The loss for 2006 is primarily due to a non-cash compensation charge of $39.1 million in connection with restricted stock grants made since our inception, including equity awards made in connection with the initial public offering. We may not be profitable in future periods for a variety of reasons. If we are unable to achieve, maintain and increase our profitability in the future, the market value of our common stock could decline. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We have expanded our business and operations rapidly since our inception in June 2004. As of December 31, 2007, we had 132 employees and six offices. From our inception to December 31, 2007, our loan portfolio had grown to $2.4 billion. This growth has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our origination, credit, and loan management systems and resources. The expansion of our operations has also placed significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. To manage our anticipated growth successfully, we must continue to refine and expand our origination and marketing capabilities, credit 11 Table of Contents review processes, management procedures, access to financing sources and technology resources, as well as continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. We are in a highly competitive business and may not be able to compete effectively, which could impact our profitability. The commercial lending industry is highly competitive and includes a number of competitors who provide similar types of loans to our target customers. Our principal competitors include a variety of: • specialty and commercial finance companies, including business development companies and real estate investment trusts; • private investment funds and hedge funds; • national and regional banks; • investment banks; and • insurance companies. Some of our competitors offer a broader range of financial, lending and banking services than we do and can leverage their existing customer relationships to offer and sell services that compete directly with our products and services. In addition, some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, origination and other resources than we do. They may also have greater access to capital than we do and at a lower cost than is available to us. For example, if national and regional banks or other large competitors seek to expand within or enter our target markets, they may provide loans at lower interest rates to gain market share, which could force us to lower our rates and result in decreased returns. As a result of competition, we may not be able to attract new customers, retain existing customers or sustain the rate of growth that we have experienced to date, and our ability to expand our loan portfolio and grow future revenue may decline. If our existing customers choose to use competing sources of credit to refinance their debt, our loan portfolio could be adversely affected. We are subject to regulation and any changes in such regulations could affect our business and our profitability. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern non-depository commercial lenders and businesses generally. Any changes in such laws or regulations could affect our business and profitability. In addition, if we expand our business into areas or jurisdictions that are subject to, or have adopted, more stringent laws and regulations than those that are currently applicable to us and our business, we may have to incur significant additional expense or restrict our operations in order to comply, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations or prospects. Risks Related to Our Loan Portfolio and Lending Activities We may not recover all amounts contractually owed to us by our borrowers resulting in charge-offs, impairments and non-accruals, which may exceed our allowance for credit losses and could negatively impact our financial results and our ability to secure additional funding. We charged off $4.6 million in the fourth quarter, which represented our total credit losses during the year ended December 31, 2007, and expect to have additional credit losses in the future through the normal course of our lending operations. If we were to experience a material increase in credit losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses in the future, however, our assets, net income and operating results would be adversely impacted, which could also lead to challenges in securing additional financing. Like other commercial lenders, we experience delinquencies, impairments and non-accruals, which may indicate that our risk of credit loss for a particular loan has materially increased. When a loan is over 90 days past 12 Table of Contents due or if management believes there is reasonable doubt as to our ability to collect principal and interest contractually owed to us, it is our policy to place the loan on non-accrual status. When a loan is placed on non-accrual status, we also make a determination as to whether the loan is impaired. A loan is considered impaired when management believes there is reasonable doubt about our ability to collect all amounts due to us according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Non-accrual loans are also likely to be considered impaired if the value of any guaranties or collateral securing the loan is less than the loan amount. In certain circumstances, a loan can be classified as impaired, but continue to be performing as a result of a troubled debt restructuring. As of December 31, 2007, we reported no delinquencies and had three loans with an aggregate outstanding balance of $25.6 million classified as impaired. Of these, two loans with an aggregate outstanding balance of $21.9 million at December 31, 2007 were placed on non-accrual status during the fourth quarter. The third loan was partially resolved through a troubled debt restructuring in the fourth quarter and was performing as of December 31, 2007. We established specific reserves totaling $4.6 million against these three impaired loans in the fourth quarter, which reflects management’s estimate of expected future credit losses. As of December 31, 2007, we had an allowance for credit losses of $35.5 million, with specific reserves of $4.6 million. The allowance for credit losses does not include a reserve for impairments on our debt products. Management periodically reviews the appropriateness of our allowance for credit losses. However, the limited history of our loans makes it difficult to judge the expected credit performance of our loans. Our estimates and judgments with respect to the appropriateness of our allowance for credit losses may not be accurate, and the assumptions we use to make such estimates and judgments may be inaccurate. Our allowance may not be adequate to cover credit or other losses related to our loans as a result of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. If we were to experience material credit losses related to our loans, such losses could adversely impact our ability to fund future loans and our business and, to the extent losses exceed our allowance for credit losses, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We may experience impairments on our other debt products that could adversely impact our net income and assets and harm our results of operations. We have reported impairments in the past and, in the future, may experience additional impairments on our debt investments. We review the fair value of our other debt products quarterly. The fair value of our investments in debt products are based on independent third-party quoted market prices, when available, at the reporting date for those or similar investments. When no market is available, we estimate fair value using various valuation methodologies, including cash flow analysis and internally generated financial models that incorporate significant assumptions and judgments, as well as qualitative factors. Even if the general accuracy of our valuation models is validated, there are no assurances that our valuations are accurate because of the high number of variables that affect cash flows associated with these complex cash flow structures, which differ on each securitization. Valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships that drive the results of the model. Because of the inherent uncertainty of determining the fair value of investments that do not have a readily ascertainable market value, the fair value of investments may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a market existed for the investments, and the differences could be material. In addition, if our estimates or assumptions with respect to these assets prove to be incorrect, we may be required to write down some or all of the value of these assets. A debt product is considered impaired when the fair value of the debt product declines below its amortized cost. The cost basis of the investment is then written down to fair value. If management determines the impairment to be temporary, it is recorded in other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders’ equity. 13 Table of Contents If management determines the impairment to be permanent, it is recorded as an offset to other income on our statements of operations. From time to time we may become aware of cash flow or credit issues with respect to our other debt products and these other debt products are then monitored by management to determine if a write-down is appropriate. Although we view write-downs of our other debt products as a normal and anticipated aspect of our business, material write-downs of the fair value of our other debt products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2007, we had three debt products with a combined fair value of $1.9 million that were deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. During 2007, we recorded impairment charges, or write-downs, in other income of $20.3 million. Our allowance for credit losses does not cover these write-downs as we classify these assets as available-for-sale and are accounted for under the guidelines of FAS No. 115 and EITF 99-20. During 2007, conditions in the consumer mortgage and related RMBS markets deteriorated severely due, in part, to unexpected increases in delinquency and default rates of certain types of residential mortgage and home equity loan collateral underlying mortgage backed securities. The factors driving the speed and severity of the deterioration in the consumer mortgage loan market are complex. The credit performance of mortgage loans underlying these investment securities has been negatively impacted by a combination of declining home prices, rising interest rates, rate resets on adjustable rate loans, and the rapid change in mortgage product characteristics accompanied by a widespread loosening of underwriting standards by mortgage loan originators. We make loans primarily to privately-owned, small and medium-sized companies, which may present a greater risk of loss than loans to larger companies. Our loan portfolio consists primarily of loans to small and medium-sized, privately-owned companies. Compared to larger, publicly-traded firms, these companies generally have more limited access to capital and higher funding costs, may be in a weaker financial position and may need more capital to expand or compete. In addition, many of these companies may be unable to obtain financing from public capital markets or from traditional sources, such as commercial banks. Accordingly, loans made to these types of customers entail higher risks than loans made to companies who have larger businesses, greater financial resources or are otherwise able to access traditional credit sources. Numerous factors may affect a customer’s ability to make scheduled payments on its loan, including the failure to meet its business plan or a downturn in its industry or in the economy in general. In part because of their smaller size, our customers may: • experience significant variations in results of operations; • have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than their larger competitors; • be particularly vulnerable to changes in customer preferences and market conditions; • be reliant on high growth rates that may not be achieved; • be more dependent on one or a limited number of major customers, the loss of which could materially impair their business, financial condition and ability to make loan payments; • face intense competition, including from companies with greater financial, technical, managerial and marketing resources; • depend on the management talents and efforts of a single individual or a small group of persons for their success, the death, disability or resignation of whom could materially harm the customer’s financial condition and ability to make loan payments; or • have fewer skilled or experienced management personnel than larger companies. 14 Table of Contents Any of these factors could impair a customer’s cash flow or result in other adverse events, such as bankruptcy, which could limit a customer’s ability to make scheduled payments on our loans, and may lead to losses in our loan portfolio and a decrease in our net interest income, net income and book value. Because most of our customers do not publicly report their financial condition, we are more susceptible to a customer’s fraud, which could cause us to suffer losses on our loan portfolio. A customer could defraud us by, among other things: • misrepresenting their financial performance or business prospects; • failing to accurately report their financial position; • overstating or falsifying records showing their asset values; • failing to notify us of their failure to comply with loan covenants; • misstating or falsifying required reports; or • providing inaccurate reporting of other financial information. The failure of a customer to accurately report its financial position, compliance with loan covenants or eligibility for additional borrowings could result in our providing loans or other debt products that do not meet our underwriting criteria, defaults in loan payments, the loss of some or all of the principal of a particular loan or loans, including, in the case of revolving loans, amounts we may not have advanced had we possessed complete and accurate information. This risk is heightened for us because most of our customers do not publicly report their financial condition or results of operations. Our concentration of loans and other debt products within a particular industry or region could impair our financial condition or results of operations if that industry or region were to experience adverse changes to economic or business conditions. We specialize in certain broad industry segments, such as media, commercial real estate and healthcare in which our bankers have experience and strong networks of proprietary deal sources and our credit personnel have significant expertise. As a result, our portfolio currently has and may develop other concentrations of risk exposure related to those industry segments. At December 31, 2007, 16% of our loan portfolio was comprised of loans to commercial real estate investors/developers secured by mortgages on various property types, and 11% of our loan portfolio was comprised of loans to companies in the media industry, such as publishers, cable television and telecom companies, as well as broadcasters and other entertainment-related companies. At year end, 8% of the loan portfolio represented loans to companies in the healthcare industry. If industry segments in which we have a concentration of investments experience adverse economic or business conditions, our delinquencies, default rate and loan charge-offs in those segments may increase, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our balloon and bullet transactions may involve a greater degree of risk than other types of loans. As of December 31, 2007, balloon and bullet transactions represented 84.5% of the outstanding balance of our loan portfolio. A balloon transaction is a transaction with a series of scheduled payment installments calculated to amortize the principal balance of the transaction so that upon maturity of the transaction more than 30%, but less than 100%, of the loan or other debt product balance remains unpaid and must be satisfied. A bullet loan or other debt product is a transaction with no scheduled payments of principal before the maturity date of the loan or other debt product, at which time the entire unpaid balance of the loan or other debt product is due. Most of our revolving loans and other debt products and some of our term loans are bullet transactions. Balloon and bullet loans and other debt products involve a greater degree of risk than other types of transactions because they require the borrower to make a large final payment upon the maturity of the loan or 15 Table of Contents other debt product. The ability of our customers to make this final payment upon the maturity of the loan or other debt product typically depends upon their ability either to refinance the loan or other debt product prior to maturity or to generate sufficient cash flow to repay the loan or other debt product prior to maturity. The ability of a customer to accomplish any of these goals will be affected by many factors, including the availability of financing at acceptable rates to the customer, the financial condition of the customer, the marketability of the related collateral, the operating history of the related business, tax laws and the prevailing general economic conditions. Consequently, the customer may not have the ability to repay the loan or other debt product at maturity and we could lose all or most of the principal of our loan or other debt product. Given their relative size and limited resources and access to capital, our small and mid-sized customers may have difficulty in repaying or financing their balloon and bullet loans or other debt products on a timely basis or at all. Our cash flow transactions are not fully covered by the value of tangible assets or collateral of the customer and, consequently, if any of these transactions become non-performing, we could suffer a loss of some or all of our value in the assets. Cash flow lending involves lending money to a customer based primarily on the expected cash flow, profitability and enterprise value of a customer, with the value of any tangible assets as secondary protection. In some cases, these loans may have more leverage than traditional bank debt. As of December 31, 2007, cash flow transactions comprised $1.8 billion, or 76.8%, of the outstanding balance of our loan portfolio. In the case of our senior cash flow loans, we generally take a lien on substantially all of a customer’s assets, but the value of those assets is typically substantially less than the amount of money we advance to the customer under a cash flow transaction. In addition, some of our cash flow loans may be viewed as stretch loans, meaning they may be at leverage multiples that exceed accepted traditional bank lending standards for senior cash flow loans. Thus, if a cash flow transaction becomes non-performing, our primary recourse to recover some or all of the principal of our loan or other debt product would be to force the sale of all or part of the company as a going concern. The risks inherent in cash flow lending include, among other things: • reduced use of or demand for the customer’s products or services and, thus, reduced cash flow of the customer to service the loan and other debt product as well as reduced value of the customer as a going concern; • inability of the customer to manage working capital, which could result in lower cash flow; • inaccurate or fraudulent reporting of our customer’s positions or financial statements; • economic downturns, political events, regulatory changes, litigation or acts of terrorism that affect the customer’s business, financial condition and prospects; and • our customer’s poor management of their business. Additionally, many of our customers use the proceeds of our cash flow transactions to make acquisitions. Poorly executed or poorly conceived acquisitions can tax management, systems and the operations of the existing business, causing a decline in both the customer’s cash flow and the value of its business as a going concern. In addition, many acquisitions involve new management teams taking over control of a business. These new management teams may fail to execute at the same level as the former management team, which could reduce the cash flow of the customer available to service the loan or other debt product, as well as reduce the value of the customer as a going concern. We provide second lien, subordinated / mezzanine loans, other debt products and equity-linked products, which may present higher risk of loss than our senior loans and other debt products. We provide second lien, subordinated / mezzanine loans, other debt products and equity-linked products. Our second lien loans are junior as to collateral and, in some cases, right of payment to obligations to customers’ senior secured lenders. Our subordinated debt products have payment terms that are in excess of or residual to 16 Table of Contents the rights of senior lenders. Our mezzanine loans are junior as to collateral and right of payment to customers’ other indebtedness and often have no collateral rights. Collectively, second lien, subordinated / mezzanine loans and other debt products comprised 1.5% of the outstanding balance of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had $4.3 million of equity-linked products that were either purchased or received as part of a loan fee. Depending on market conditions, we may increase the amount of second lien, subordinated / mezzanine loans, other debt products and equity-linked products that we provide, and these types of assets may increase as a percentage of our loan portfolio. As a result of their junior nature, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect principal and interest on these loans and other debt products or to recover any of their outstanding balance through a foreclosure of collateral. For example, typically we are not contractually entitled to receive payments of principal on a junior loan or other debt product until the senior loan or other debt product is paid in full, and we may only receive interest payments on a second lien or subordinated / mezzanine asset if the customer is not in default under its senior secured loan. In many instances, we are also prohibited from foreclosing on collateral securing a second lien, subordinated / mezzanine loan or other debt product until the senior loan is paid in full. Moreover, any amounts that we might realize as a result of our collection efforts or in connection with a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving a customer under a second lien, subordinated / mezzanine loan or other debt product must generally be turned over to the senior secured lender until the senior secured lender has realized the full value of its own claims. These restrictions may materially and adversely affect our ability to recover the principal of any non-performing senior subordinate, second lien, subordinated / mezzanine loans and other debt product. In addition, on occasion we provide senior loans or other debt products that are contractually subordinated to one or more senior secured loans for the customer. In those cases we may have a first lien security interest, but one or more creditors have payment priority over us. If interest rates rise, demand for our loans or other debt products may decrease and some of our existing customers may be unable to service interest on their loans or other debt products. Most of our loans and other debt products bear interest at floating interest rates. To the extent interest rates increase, monthly interest obligations owed by our customers to us will also increase. Demand for our loans or other debt products may decrease as interest rates rise or if interest rates are expected to rise in the future. In addition, if prevailing interest rates increase, some of our customers may not be able to make the increased interest payments or refinance their balloon and bullet transaction, resulting in payment defaults and loan impairments. Conversely if interest rates decline, our customers may refinance the loans they have with us at lower interest rates, or with others, leading to lower revenues. Errors by, or dishonesty of, our employees in making credit decisions or in our loan and other debt product servicing activities could result in credit losses and harm our reputation. We rely heavily on the performance and integrity of our employees in making our initial credit decisions with respect to our loans and other debt products and in servicing our loans and other debt products after they have closed. Because there is generally little or no publicly available information about our customers, we cannot independently confirm or verify the information our employees provide us for use in making our credit and funding decisions. Errors by our employees in assembling, analyzing or recording information concerning our customers could cause us to originate loans or fund subsequent advances that we would not otherwise originate or fund, which could result in loan losses. Losses could also arise if any of our employees were dishonest, particularly if they colluded with a customer to misrepresent the creditworthiness of a prospective customer or to provide inaccurate reports regarding the customer’s compliance with the covenants in its loan or other debt products agreement. If, based on an employee’s dishonesty, we made a loan or other debt product to a customer that was not creditworthy or failed to exercise our rights under a loan or other debt product agreement against a customer that was not in compliance with covenants in the agreement, we could lose some or all of the principal of the loan or other debt product. Fraud or dishonesty on the part of our employees could also damage our reputation which could harm our competitive position and adversely affect our business. 17 Table of Contents We are not the sole lender or agent for most of our loans or other debt products. Consequently, we do not have absolute control over how these loans or other debt products are administered or have control over those loans. When we are not the sole lender or agent, we may be required to seek approvals from other lenders before we take actions to enforce our rights. A majority of our loan portfolio consists of loans and other debt products in which we are neither the sole lender, the agent for the lending group that receives payments under the loan or other debt product nor the agent that controls the underlying collateral. For these loans and other debt products, we may not have direct access to the customer and, as a result, may not receive the same financial or operational information as we receive for loans or other debt products for which we are the agent. This may make it more difficult for us to track or rate these loans or other debt products. Additionally, we may be prohibited or otherwise restricted from taking actions to enforce the loan or other debt product or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan or other debt product without the agreement of other lenders holding a specified minimum aggregate percentage, generally a majority or two-thirds of the outstanding principal balance. It is possible that an agent for one of these loans or other debt products may choose not to take the same actions to enforce the loan or other debt product or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan that we would have taken had we been the agent for the loan or other debt product. Our commitments to lend additional sums to customers may exceed our resources available to fund these commitments, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Our contractual commitments to lend additional sums to our customers may exceed our resources available to fund these commitments. Some of our funding sources are only available to fund a portion of a loan and other funding sources may not be immediately available. Our customers’ ability to borrow these funds may be restricted until they are able to demonstrate, among other things, that they have sufficient collateral to secure the requested additional borrowings or that the borrowing conforms to specific uses or meets certain conditions. We may have miscalculated the likelihood that our customers will request additional borrowings in excess of our readily available funds. If our calculations prove incorrect, we will not have the funds to make these loan advances without obtaining additional financing. Our failure to satisfy our full contractual funding commitment to one or more of our customers could create breach of contract or other liabilities for us and damage our reputation in the marketplace, which could then adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because there is no active trading market for most of the loans and other debt products in our loan portfolio, we might not be able to sell them at a favorable price or at all. The lack of active secondary markets for some of our investments may also create uncertainty as to the value of these investments. We may seek to dispose of one or more of our loans and other debt products to obtain liquidity or to reduce or limit potential losses with respect to non-performing assets. There is no established trading market for most of our loans and other debt products. In addition, the fair value of other debt products that have lower levels of liquidity or are not publicly-traded may not be readily determinable and may fluctuate significantly on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis. Because these valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that we ultimately attain for these debt products or would be able to attain if we have to sell our other debt products. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. In addition, given the limited trading market for our loans and other debt products and the uncertainty as to their fair value at any point in time, if we seek to sell a loan or other debt product to obtain liquidity or reduce or limit losses, we may not be able to do so at a favorable price or at all. We selectively underwrite transactions that we may be unable to syndicate. On a selective basis, we commit to underwrite transactions that are significantly larger than our internal hold targets and we then seek to syndicate any amounts in excess of our target. We may syndicate these loans to the 18 Table of Contents NCOF or to other lenders. As part of the syndication process to the NCOF, we must hold the targeted loans for at least 31 days. After 31 days the NCOF may reject the loan should credit deteriorate. If we are unable to syndicate these commitments, we may have to sell the additional exposure on unfavorable terms, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if we must hold a larger portion of a transaction than we would like, we may not be able to complete other transactions and our loan portfolio may become more concentrated, which could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we hold a loan that exceeds our internal hold targets, we obtain a separate credit approval for the excess portion. We entered into a specific transaction comprised of loans to individual consumers, which present different risks than those associated with commercial loans. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we entered into a specific transaction comprised of individual consumer loans with an outstanding balance of $12.8 million at December 31, 2007. We are a commercial finance company, and our risk and return parameters are not focused on individual consumer loans and may not accurately predict the risks and returns of consumer loans. The repayments of the individual loans are backed by independent corporate guarantees, and we are fully indemnified by the independent party if legal action were brought against us. Risks Related to Our Funding and Leverage Our ability to grow our business depends on our ability to obtain external financing. If our lenders terminate any of our credit facilities or if we default on our credit facilities, we may not be able to continue to fund our business. We require a substantial amount of cash to provide new loans and other debt products and to fund our obligations to existing customers. In the past, we have obtained the cash required for our operations through the issuance of equity interests and by borrowing money through credit facilities, term debt securitizations and repurchase agreements. We may not be able to continue to access these or other sources of funds. As of December 31, 2007, we had two credit facilities subject to annual liquidity renewals, which we renewed during 2007, with aggregate commitments of $800.0 million maturing in 2010. In addition, we had two credit facilities with aggregate commitments of $475.0 million with maturities in 2008. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, we terminated a $400.0 million credit facility scheduled to mature in 2008. Substantially all of our non-securitized loans and other debt products are held in these facilities. Our credit facilities contain customary representations and warranties, covenants, conditions, events of default and termination events that if breached, not satisfied or triggered, could result in termination of the facility. Further, if our lenders do not renew a facility on the required annual renewal date, our ability to make new borrowings under that facility would terminate. Further, all cash flow generated by our loans and other debt products subject to that facility would go to pay down our borrowings thereunder rather than to us. Additionally, if the facility were terminated due to our breach, noncompliance or default, our lenders could liquidate or sell all of our loans and other debt products held in that facility. Also, if we trigger a default or there is a termination event under one facility and that default or termination results in a payment default or in the acceleration of that facility’s debt, it may trigger a default or termination event under our other facilities that have cross-acceleration or payment cross-default provisions. Consequently, if one or more of these facilities were to terminate prior to its expected maturity date, our liquidity position would be materially adversely affected, and we may not be able to satisfy our undrawn commitment balances, originate new loans or other debt products or continue to fund our operations. Even if we are able to refinance our debt, we may not be able to do so on favorable terms. If we are not able to obtain additional funding on favorable terms or at all, our ability to grow our business will be impaired. Our lenders and noteholders could terminate us as servicer of our loans, which would adversely affect our ability to manage our loan portfolio and reduce our net interest income. Upon the occurrence of specified default events, our lenders under our credit facilities and the holders of the notes issued in our term debt securitizations may elect to terminate us as servicer of the loans and other debt 19 Table of Contents products under the applicable facility and appoint a successor servicer. These default events include, but are not limited to, the loss of any four named members of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our senior management nor have we taken any other precautions to offset the financial loss we could incur as a result of any of their departures. If we are terminated as servicer, we will no longer receive our servicing fee. In addition, because any successor servicer may not be able to service our loan portfolio according to our standards, any transfer of servicing to a successor servicer could result in reduced or delayed collections, delays in processing payments and information regarding the loans and other debt products and a failure to meet all of the servicing procedures required by the applicable servicing agreement. Consequently, the performance of our loans and other debt products could be adversely affected and our income generated from those loans and other debt products significantly reduced. Our liquidity position could be adversely affected if we were unable to complete additional term debt securitizations in the future, or if the reinvestment periods in our term debt securitizations terminate early, which could create a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have completed three term debt securitizations to fund our loans and other debt products, all of which we accounted for on our balance sheet, through which we issued $1.3 billion of notes. Given current market conditions, we believe executing a traditional term debt securitization could be difficult. Our term debt securitizations consist of asset securitization transactions in which we transfer loans and other debt products to a trust that aggregates our loans and, in turn, sells notes, collateralized by the trust’s assets, to institutional investors. The notes issued by the trusts have been rated by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. The ratings range from AAA to BB by Standard & Poor’s, Inc. and Fitch Ratings, Inc. and Aaa to Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., depending on the class of notes. We have also completed a $300.0 million unrated term debt credit facility with one counterparty and with a single class of notes. This facility had an outstanding balance of $84.0 million at December 31, 2007. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our goal in completing these transactions was to raise additional capital to pay down our borrowings under our credit facilities and to create additional liquidity under our credit facilities for use in funding our loan portfolio. We intend to complete additional term debt securitizations in the future. Several factors will affect demand for, and our ability to complete additional term debt securitizations, including: • disruptions in the capital markets generally, and the asset-backed securities market in particular; • disruptions in the credit quality and performance of our loan portfolio, particularly that portion which has been previously securitized and serves as collateral for existing term debt securitizations; • our ability to service our loan portfolio must continue to be perceived as adequate to make the issued securities attractive to investors; and • any material downgrading or withdrawal of ratings given to securities previously issued in our term debt securitizations. If we are unable to complete additional term debt securitizations, our ability to obtain the capital needed for us to continue to operate and grow our business would be adversely affected. In addition, our credit facilities are only intended to provide short-term financing for our transactions. If we are unable to finance our transactions over the longer term through our term debt securitizations, our credit facilities may not be renewed. Moreover, our credit facilities typically carry a higher interest rate than our term debt securitizations. Accordingly, our inability to complete additional term debt securitizations in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and result of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Market Conditions.” 20 Table of Contents If a specified default event occurred in a term debt securitization, the reinvestment period would be terminated. This could have an adverse effect on our ability to fund new assets. The cash flows we receive from the interests we retain in our term debt securitizations could be delayed or reduced due to the requirements of the term debt securitization. We have retained 100% of the junior-most interests, which we refer to as the trust certificates, issued in the term debt securitizations, totaling $129.4 million in principal amount, issued in each of our three term debt securitizations that we have completed through December 31, 2007. The notes issued in the term debt securitizations that we did not retain are senior to the trust certificates we did retain. Cash flows generated by the retained interest in these trust certificates were $29.0 million and $10.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our receipt of future cash flows on the trust certificates is governed by provisions that control the distribution of cash flows from the loans and other debt products included in our term debt securitizations. On a quarterly basis, interest cash flows from the loans and other debt products must first be used to pay the interest on the senior notes and expenses of the term debt securitization. Any funds remaining after the payment of these amounts are distributed to us. Several factors may influence the timing and amount of the cash flows we receive from loans and other debt products included in our term debt securitizations, including: • if any loan or other debt product included in a term debt securitization becomes 60 days or more delinquent or is charged off, all funds, after paying expenses and interest to the senior notes, go to a reserve account which then pays down an amount of senior notes equal to the amount of the delinquent loan or other debt product. Except for specified management fees, we will not receive any distributions from funds during this period; and • if other specified events occur to the trusts, for example a ratings downgrade or failure to receive ratings confirmation on a trust’s rated notes at the end of the ramp up period or the failure to comply with coverage ratios, our cash flows would be used to reduce the outstanding balance of the senior notes and would not be available to us until the full principal balance of the senior notes has been repaid. We have obtained a significant portion of our debt financing through a limited number of financial institutions. This concentration of funding sources exposes us to funding risks. We have obtained our credit facility financing from a limited number of financial institutions. Our reliance on the underwriters of our debt financing and their affiliates for a significant amount of our funding exposes us to funding risks. If these participating lenders determined to terminate our $1.3 billion in credit facilities, we would need to establish new lending relationships to satisfy our funding needs. Risks Related to Our Operations and Financial Results Our quarterly net interest income and results of operations are difficult to forecast and may fluctuate substantially. Our quarterly net interest income and results of operations are difficult to forecast. We may experience substantial fluctuations in net interest income and results of operations from quarter to quarter. You should not rely on our results of operations in any prior reporting period to be indicative of our performance in future reporting periods. Many different factors could cause our results of operations to vary from quarter to quarter, including: • the success of our origination activities; 21 Table of Contents • pre-payments on our loan portfolio; • credit losses and default rates; • our ability to enter into financing arrangements; • competition; • seasonal fluctuations in our business, including the timing of transactions; • costs of compliance with regulatory requirements; • private equity activity; • the timing of any future acquisitions; • personnel changes; • changes in prevailing interest rates; • general changes to the U.S. and global economies; and • political conditions or events. We base our current and future operating expense levels and our investment plans on estimates of future net interest income, transaction activity and rate of growth. We expect that our expenses will increase in the future, and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our net interest income falls short of our expectations. Any shortfalls in our net interest income or in our expected growth rates could result in decreases in our stock price. We may be adversely affected by deteriorating economic or business conditions. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by deteriorating economic and business conditions in the markets in which we operate. Delinquencies, non-accruals and credit losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. Our Middle Market Corporate group primarily consists of loans to small and medium-sized businesses that may be particularly susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to make scheduled payments of interest or principal on their borrowings during these periods. Also, in our Middle Market Corporate group, economic slowdowns or recessions or a decline in value of residential real estate could increase potential payment defaults on the residential real estate or home equity lines of credit underlying our investments in asset-backed securities. In our Commercial Real Estate group, economic slowdowns or recessions could increase potential payment defaults on the underlying commercial real estate. Therefore, to the extent that economic and business conditions deteriorate, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our loan portfolio is likely to decrease. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of the collateral, particularly real estate, securing some of our loans or other debt products. Further economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our loan portfolio and a decrease in our net interest income, net income and book value. Unfavorable economic conditions may also make it more difficult for us to maintain both our new origination volume and the credit quality of new business at levels previously attained. Unfavorable economic conditions could also increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could negatively impact our results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Market Conditions.” Our business is highly dependent on key personnel. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Investment Officer as well as other key personnel. While we entered into employment agreements 22 Table of Contents with each of these officers, if we were to lose the services of any of these executives for any reason, including voluntary resignation or retirement, we may not be able to replace them with someone of equal skill or ability and our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, we may not function well without the continued services of these executives. Potential acquisitions may adversely impact our business. Although we have not made any acquisitions to date, we may pursue acquisitions of other finance companies or debt portfolios in the future. We may experience difficulties in integrating any future acquisitions and we may not receive the expected benefits from those acquisitions because of: • heightened risks of credit losses as a result of acquired loans and other debt products not having been originated by us in accordance with our underwriting standards; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the potentially adverse effects that acquisitions may have in terms of the composition and performance of our loan portfolio; and • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. Future acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the incurrence of additional debt. We may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. Our ability to originate and underwrite loans and other debt products is dependent on the experience and expertise of our employees. In order to grow our business, we must attract and retain qualified personnel, especially origination and credit personnel with relationships with referral sources and an understanding of small and middle-market businesses and the industries in which our borrowers operate. Many of the financial institutions with which we compete for experienced personnel may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. If any of our key origination personnel leave, our new loan and other debt product volume from their business contacts may decline or cease, regardless of the terms of our loan and other debt product offerings or our level of service. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them and increases the costs of replacing them. As competition for qualified employees grows, our cost of labor could increase, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We intend to conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which we refer to as the Investment Company Act. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines as an investment company any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40.0% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Excluded from the term “investment securities” are, among other things, securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. We expect that many of our majority-owned subsidiaries, including those which we have created (or may in the future create) in connection with our term debt securitizations, will rely on exceptions and exemptions from the Investment Company Act available to certain structured finance companies and that our interests in those subsidiaries will not constitute “investment securities” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. Because 23 Table of Contents these exceptions and exemptions may, among other things, limit the types of assets these subsidiaries may purchase or counterparties with which we may deal, we must monitor each subsidiary’s compliance with its applicable exception or exemption. We must also monitor our loan portfolio to ensure that the value of the investment securities we hold does not exceed 40.0% of our total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. If the combined value of the investment securities issued by our subsidiaries that are investment companies or that must rely on the exceptions provided by Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act rather than another exception or exemption, together with any other investment securities we may own, exceeds 40.0% of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis, we may be deemed to be an investment company. Because we believe that the interests we hold in our subsidiaries generally will not be investment securities, we do not expect to own nor do we propose to acquire investment securities in excess of 40.0% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. We intend to monitor for compliance with the Investment Company Act on an ongoing basis and may be compelled to take or refrain from taking actions, to acquire additional income or loss generating assets or to forego opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial or advisable, including, but not limited to selling assets that are considered to be investment securities or foregoing sale of assets which are not investment securities, in order to ensure that we (or a subsidiary) may continue to rely on the applicable exceptions or exemptions. These limitations on our freedom of action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain an exemption, exception or other exclusion from registration as an investment company, we could, among other things, be required to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations either to avoid being required to register as an investment company or to register as an investment company. If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to, among other things, our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, criminal and civil actions could be brought against us, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court were to require enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 