Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are important risks and uncertainties we have identified that could materially affect our future results. You should consider them carefully when evaluating forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and otherwise made by us or on our behalf because these contingencies could cause actual results and circumstances to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The Company’s actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. If any of those contingencies actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We have been in operation since June 2004, which may not serve as an adequate time frame to evaluate our business, results of operations and prospects and may increase the risk of your investment. Because of our limited operating history, our historical results of operations may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, results of operations and prospects. You should evaluate our business, results of operations and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter as an early-stage company in a highly competitive industry, including our potential inability to: • successfully compete for transaction opportunities; • raise debt and equity capital on attractive terms; • continue to grow and manage our growth effectively; • accurately forecast the level of credit losses that we may experience in our loan portfolio; • successfully hire and retain key personnel; or • effectively manage our business. We may not be able to successfully address these risks and difficulties, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. We have incurred losses in the past as a start up company and have not yet achieved profitability. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 and for the period from June 18, 2004 (inception) through December 31, 2004, we recorded net losses of $27.2 million, $5.9 million and $5.5 million, respectively. The loss for 2006 is primarily due to a non-cash compensation charge of $39.1 million in connection with restricted stock grants made since our inception, including equity awards made in connection with the initial public offering. We may not be profitable in future periods for a variety of reasons. If we are unable to achieve, maintain and increase our profitability in the future, the market value of our common stock could decline. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We have expanded our business and operations rapidly since our inception in June 2004. As of December 31, 2006, we had 101 employees and six offices, and we expect to hire a significant number of additional employees and open additional offices in the near future. From our inception to December 31, 2006, our loan portfolio has grown to $1.7 billion, representing 204 transactions. This growth has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our origination, credit, and loan management systems and resources. The expansion of our operations has also placed significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. To manage our anticipated growth successfully, we must continue to refine and expand our origination and marketing capabilities, credit review processes, management procedures, access to financing sources and technology resources, as well as continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We are in a highly competitive business and may not be able to compete effectively. The commercial lending industry is highly competitive and includes a number of competitors who provide similar types of loans and other debt products to our target customers. Our principal competitors include a variety of: • specialty and commercial finance companies, including business development companies and real estate investment trusts; • private investment funds and hedge funds; • national and regional banks; • investment banks; and • insurance companies. Some of our competitors offer a broader range of financial, lending and banking services than we do and can leverage their existing customer relationships to offer and sell services that compete directly with our products and services. In addition, some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, origination and other resources than we do. They may also have greater access to capital than we do and at a lower cost than is available to us. For example, if national and regional banks or other large competitors seek to expand within or enter our target markets, they may provide loans and other debt products at lower interest rates to gain market share, which could force us to lower our rates and result in decreased returns. As a result of competition, we may not be able to attract new customers, retain existing customers or sustain the rate of growth that we have experienced to date, and our ability to expand our loan portfolio and grow future revenue may decline. If our existing customers choose to use competing sources of credit to refinance their debt, our loan portfolio could be adversely affected. We are subject to regulation and any changes in such regulations could affect our business and our profitability. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern non-depository commercial lenders and businesses generally. Any changes in such laws or regulations could affect our business and profitability. In addition, if we expand our business into areas or jurisdictions that are subject to, or have adopted, more stringent laws and regulations than those that are currently applicable to us and our business, we may have to incur significant additional expense or restrict our operations in order to comply, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations or prospects. Risks Related to Our Loan Portfolio and Lending Activities We may experience charge offs on our loans, which may exceed our allowance for credit losses and could negatively impact our net income and assets and harm our results of operations. We may also experience non-accruals or delinquencies on our loans. We recently had one delinquency and, in the future, may experience additional delinquencies or suffer charge offs on our loans and an increase in the number of loans placed on non-accrual status. A charge off occurs when management believes that all or part of the principal of a particular loan is no longer recoverable and will not be repaid. If these charge offs exceed our allowance for credit losses, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Delinquent loans are 31 days or more past due. Non-accrual loans are either 90 days or more past due or loans for which management believes that there is reasonable doubt as to collectibility in the normal course of business. We view delinquent and non-accrual loans as a normal and anticipated aspect of our business. As of December 31, 2006, one of our loans with an outstanding balance of $8.4 million was delinquent and none of our loans were on non-accrual status. As of December 31, 2006, we had an allowance for credit losses of $20.6 million, with no specific reserves or charge offs for any loan. The allowance for credit losses does not include a reserve for impairments on our 17 Table of Contents debt products. Since we have not yet recorded any charge offs related to our loans, our allowance for credit losses policy was developed independent of the historical performance of our loans. Management periodically reviews the appropriateness of our allowance for credit losses. However, the lack of historical data of our loans makes it difficult to judge the expected credit performance of our loans. Our estimates and judgments with respect to the appropriateness of our allowance for credit losses may not be accurate, and the assumptions we use to make such estimates and judgments may be inaccurate. Our allowance may not be adequate to cover credit or other losses related to our loans as a result of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. If we were to experience material credit losses related to our loans, such losses could adversely impact our ability to fund future loans and our business and, to the extent losses exceed our allowance for credit losses, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Like other commercial finance companies, we have experienced, and will continue to experience, missed and late payments, and we will experience failures by customers to comply with operational and financial covenants in their agreements. Any of these events may be an indication that our risk of credit loss or charge off with respect to a particular loan has materially increased. In addition, loans that have been outstanding for a longer period of time typically have higher default rates due to normal seasoning. We anticipate that the rate of payment defaults and charge offs on our loan portfolio will increase over time to more accurately reflect the expected default rates for small- and medium-sized companies. In addition, we anticipate that the number of delinquent and non-accrual loans and charge offs will increase as our loan portfolio expands and seasons over time. We may experience impairments on our other debt products that could adversely impact our net income and assets and harm our results of operations. In December 2006, we reported impariments on two debt products in our consumer mortgage portfolio and, in the future, may experience additional impairments on our debt investments. We review the fair value of our other debt products quarterly. The fair value of our investments in debt products, which include among others residential mortgage-backed securities (“RMBS”), are based on independent third-party quoted market prices, when available, at the reporting date for those or similar investments. When no market is available, we estimate fair value using various valuation methodologies, including cash flow analysis and internally generated financial models that incorporate significant assumptions and judgments, as well as qualitative factors. Even if the general accuracy of our valuation models are validated, there are no assurances that our valuations are accurate because of the high number of variables that affect cash flows associated with these complex cash flow structures, which differ on each securitization. Valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships that drive the results of the model. Because of the inherent uncertainty of determining the fair value of investments that do not have a readily ascertainable market value, the fair value of investments may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a market existed for the investments, and the differences could be material. In addition, if our estimates or assumptions with respect to these assets prove to be incorrect, we may be required to write down some or all of the value of these assets. A debt product is considered impaired when the fair value of the debt product declines below its amortized cost. The cost basis of the investment is then written down to fair value. If management determines the impairment to be temporary, it is recorded in other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders’ equity. If management determines the impairment to be permanent, it is recorded as an offset to other income on our statements of operations. From time to time we may become aware of cash flow or credit issues with respect to our other debt products and these other debt products are then monitored by management to determine if a write-down is appropriate. 18 Table of Contents Although we view write-downs of our other debt products as a normal and anticipated aspect of our business, material write-downs of the fair value of our other debt products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2006, we had two debt products in our consumer mortgage portfolio with a combined fair value of $6.2 million that were deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. As a result, in December 2006, we recorded an impairment charge, or write-down, in other income of $0.6 million related to these debt products. Our allowance for credit losses does not cover these write-downs as we classify these assets as available-for-sale and are accounted for under the guidelines of FAS No. 115 and EITF 99-20. We became aware of a potential credit issue with one of our debt products in our Commercial, other than Mortgage portfolio. We are currently in communication with the underwriter and other lenders in the transaction to develop a course of action and determine the range of possible outcomes. At this time we are unable to determine the amount or probability of any potential credit impairment. At December 31, 2006 our outstanding balance related to this debt product was approximately $10.4 million. Since December 31, 2006, conditions in the consumer mortgage and related RMBS markets have deteriorated severely due, in part, to unexpected increases in delinquency and default rates of certain types of residential mortgage and home equity loan collateral underlying mortgage backed securities. The factors driving the speed and severity of the deterioration in the consumer mortgage loan market are complex. The credit performance of mortgage loans underlying these investment securities has been negatively impacted by a combination of declining home prices, rising interest rates, rate resets on adjustable rate loans, and the rapid change in mortgage product characteristics accompanied by a widespread loosening of underwriting standards by mortgage loan originators. The extent to which the current difficulties will migrate to other segments of the RMBS market remains unclear. There is a limited history with respect to the performance of certain segments of the mortgage backed securities markets over economic cycles. As a result, there is a high degree of uncertainty in the market as to the future credit performance of mortgage and home equity loans, particularly with respect to more recent vintages of collateral. Through our Structured Product group, we invest in RMBS and are exposed to changes in the credit performance of the mortgage loans underlying these investment securities. The performance of our investment securities may be negatively impacted by among other things the timing of losses, higher than expected levels of credit losses or prepayment speeds on the underlying mortgages or home equity loans, depending on the specific structure of each securitization. Most of our investments are in classes of securities which are not actively traded in secondary markets or have lower levels of liquidity. The fair value of securities and other investments that have such liquidity characteristics may not be readily ascertained. This situation may be further exacerbated by current market conditions. Our exposure to the residential mortgage market at December 31, 2006 was composed principally of investments in various types of RMBS, which includes first and second mortgages, with an aggregate outstanding balance of $136.7 million and an aggregate fair value of $133.4 million. Approximately 45% of our investments in RMBS have at least one investment grade rating from a nationally recognized rating agency. We define investment grade as Standard & Poor’s BBB- or better, Fitch BBB- or better or Moody’s Baa3 or better. We continue to monitor developments in the RMBS market and analyze the credit performance of the assets that underlie our investments as part of our normal business operations. We may experience near-term volatility in our financial performance due to the relatively small number of loans and other debt products in our loan portfolio. Because of our limited operating history, our loan portfolio currently consists of a relatively small number of loans and other debt products. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, we had 204 and 96 transactions, respectively. Our 10 largest transactions collectively accounted for 10.3% and 21.2% respectively, of the outstanding balance of our loan portfolio. Accordingly, a charge off or impairment relating to one or more of these large loans or other debt products could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We make loans primarily to privately owned small and medium-sized companies, which may present a greater risk of loss than loans to larger companies. Our loan portfolio consists primarily of loans to small and medium-sized, privately owned companies. Compared to larger, publicly-traded firms, these companies generally have more limited access to capital and higher funding costs, may be in a weaker financial position and may need more capital to expand or compete. In addition, many of these companies may be unable to obtain financing from public capital markets or from traditional sources, such as commercial banks. Accordingly, loans made to these types of customers entail higher risks than loans made to companies who have larger businesses, greater financial resources or are otherwise able to access traditional credit sources. Numerous factors may affect a customer’s ability to make scheduled payments on its loan, including the failure to meet its business plan or a downturn in its industry or in the economy in general. In part because of their smaller size, our customers may: • experience significant variations in results of operations; • have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than their larger competitors; • be particularly vulnerable to changes in customer preferences and market conditions; • be reliant on high growth rates that may not be achieved; • be more dependent on one or a limited number of major customers, the loss of which could materially impair their business, financial condition and ability to make loan payments; • face intense competition, including from companies with greater financial, technical, managerial and marketing resources; • depend on the management talents and efforts of a single individual or a small group of persons for their success, the death, disability or resignation of whom could materially harm the customer’s financial condition and ability to make loan payments; or • have fewer skilled or experienced management personnel than larger companies. Any of these factors could impair a customer’s cash flow or result in other adverse events, such as bankruptcy, which could limit a customer’s ability to make scheduled payments on our loans, and may lead to losses in our loan portfolio and a decrease in our net interest income, net income and book value. 20 Table of Contents A customer’s fraud could cause us to suffer losses on our loan portfolio. A customer could defraud us by, among other things: • misrepresenting their financial performance or business prospects; • failing to accurately report their financial position; • overstating or falsifying records showing their asset values; • failing to notify us of their failure to comply with loan covenants; • misstating or falsifying required reports; or • providing inaccurate reporting of other financial information. The failure of a customer to accurately report its financial position, compliance with loan covenants or eligibility for additional borrowings could result in our providing loans or other debt products that do not meet our underwriting criteria, defaults in loan payments, the loss of some or all of the principal of a particular loan or loans, including, in the case of revolving loans, amounts we may not have advanced had we possessed complete and accurate information. This risk is heightened for us because most of our customers do not publicly report their financial condition or results of operations. Our concentration of loans and other debt products within a particular industry could impair our financial condition or results of operations if the industry or region were to experience economic difficulties. We target specific industries, such as media, consumer/retail, healthcare, financial services, commercial real estate and consumer mortgage, in which our origination and credit personnel have experience and expertise. For example, at December 31, 2006, 20.2% and 11.6% of our loan portfolio consisted of customers in the consumer/retail and media industries, respectively. If our customers in the industries in which our loan portfolio is or becomes concentrated suffer due to adverse business conditions or economic slowdowns or downturns, the rate of payment delays or defaults and loan charge offs may increase and may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our balloon and bullet transactions may involve a greater degree of risk than other types of loans. As of December 31, 2006, balloon transactions represented 35.6% and bullet transactions represented 26.1% of the outstanding balance of our loan portfolio. A balloon transaction is a transaction with a series of scheduled payment installments calculated to amortize the principal balance of the transaction so that upon maturity of the transaction more than 30%, but less than 100%, of the loan or other debt product balance remains unpaid and must be satisfied. A bullet loan or other debt product is a transaction with no scheduled payments of principal before the maturity date of the loan or other debt product, at which time the entire unpaid balance of the loan or other debt product is due. Most of our revolving loans and other debt products and some of our term loans are bullet transactions. Balloon and bullet loans and other debt products involve a greater degree of risk than other types of transactions because they require the borrower to make a large final payment upon the maturity of the loan or other debt product. The ability of our customers to make this final payment upon the maturity of the loan or other debt product typically depends upon their ability either to refinance the loan or other debt product prior to maturity or to generate sufficient cash flow to repay the loan or other debt product prior to maturity. The ability of a customer to accomplish any of these goals will be affected by many factors, including the availability of financing at acceptable rates to the customer, the financial condition of the customer, the marketability of the related collateral, the operating history of the related business, tax laws and the prevailing general economic conditions. Consequently, the customer may not have the ability to repay the loan or other debt product at maturity and we could lose all or most of the principal of our loan or other debt product. Given their relative size and limited resources and access to capital, our small and mid-sized customers may have difficulty in repaying or financing their balloon and bullet loans or other debt products on a timely basis or at all. 21 Table of Contents Our cash flow transactions are not fully covered by the value of tangible assets or collateral of the customer and, consequently, if any of these transactions become non-performing, we could suffer a loss of some or all of our value in the assets. Cash flow lending involves lending money to a customer based primarily on the expected cash flow, profitability and enterprise value of a customer, with the value of any tangible assets as secondary protection. In some cases, these loans may have more leverage than traditional bank debt. As of December 31, 2006, cash flow transactions comprised $1.2 billion, or 70.8%, of the outstanding balance of our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2005, cash flow transactions comprised $542.5 million, or 71.2%, of the outstanding balance of our loan portfolio. In the case of our senior cash flow loans, we generally take a lien on substantially all of a customer’s assets, but the value of those assets is typically substantially less than the amount of money we advance to the customer under a cash flow transaction. In addition, some of our cash flow loans may be viewed as stretch loans, meaning they may be at leverage multiples that exceed accepted traditional bank lending standards for senior cash flow loans. Thus, if a cash flow transaction becomes non-performing, our primary recourse to recover some or all of the principal of our loan or other debt product would be to force the sale of all or part of the company as a going concern. The risks inherent in cash flow lending include, among other things: • reduced use of or demand for the customer’s products or services and, thus, reduced cash flow of the customer to service the loan and other debt product as well as reduced value of the customer as a going concern; • inability of the customer to manage working capital, which could result in lower cash flow; • inaccurate or fraudulent reporting of our customer’s positions or financial statements; • economic downturns, political events, regulatory changes, litigation or acts of terrorism that affect the customer’s business, financial condition and prospects; and • our customer’s poor management of their business. Additionally, many of our customers use the proceeds of our cash flow transactions to make acquisitions. Poorly executed or poorly conceived acquisitions can tax management, systems and the operations of the existing business, causing a decline in both the customer’s cash flow and the value of its business as a going concern. In addition, many acquisitions involve new management teams taking over control of a business. These new management teams may fail to execute at the same level as the former management team, which could reduce the cash flow of the customer available to service the loan or other debt product, as well as reduce the value of the customer as a going concern. We provide second lien, subordinated and mezzanine loans and other debt products, which may present higher risk of loss than our senior loans and other debt products. We provide second lien, subordinated and mezzanine loans and other debt products. Our second lien loans are junior as to collateral and, in some cases, right of payment to obligations to customers’ senior secured lenders. Our subordinated debt products have payment terms that are in excess of or residual to the rights of senior lenders. Our mezzanine loans are junior as to collateral and right of payment to customers’ other indebtedness and often have no collateral rights. Collectively, second lien, subordinated and mezzanine loans and other debt products comprised 6.6% and 11.1%, respectively, of the outstanding balance of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. Depending on market conditions, we may increase the amount of second lien, subordinated and mezzanine loans and other debt products that we provide, and these types of assets may increase as a percentage of our loan portfolio. As a result of their junior nature, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect principal and interest on these loans and other debt products or to recover any of their outstanding balance through a foreclosure of collateral. For example, typically we are not contractually entitled to receive payments of principal on a junior loan or other debt product until the senior loan or other debt product is paid in full, and we may only 22 Table of Contents receive interest payments on a second lien, subordinated or mezzanine asset if the customer is not in default under its senior secured loan. In many instances, we are also prohibited from foreclosing on collateral securing a second lien, subordinated or mezzanine loan or other debt product until the senior loan is paid in full. Moreover, any amounts that we might realize as a result of our collection efforts or in connection with a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving a customer under a second lien, subordinated or mezzanine loan or other debt product must generally be turned over to the senior secured lender until the senior secured lender has realized the full value of its own claims. These restrictions may materially and adversely affect our ability to recover the principal of any non-performing senior subordinate, second lien, subordinated or mezzanine loans and other debt product. In addition, on occasion we provide senior loans or other debt products that are contractually subordinated to one or more senior secured loans for the customer. In those cases we may have a first lien security interest, but one or more creditors have payment priority over us. If interest rates rise, demand for our loans or other debt products may decrease and some of our existing customers may be unable to service interest on their loans or other debt products. Most of our loans and other debt products bear interest at floating interest rates. To the extent interest rates increase, monthly interest obligations owed by our customers to us will also increase. Demand for our loans or other debt products may decrease as interest rates rise or if interest rates are expected to rise in the future. In addition, if prevailing interest rates increase, some of our customers may not be able to make the increased interest payments or refinance their balloon and bullet transaction, resulting in payment defaults and loan impairments. Conversely if interest rates decline, our customers may refinance the loans they have with us at lower interest rates, or with others, leading to lower revenues. Errors by, or dishonesty of, our employees in making credit decisions or in our loan and other debt product servicing activities could result in credit losses and harm our reputation. We rely heavily on the performance and integrity of our employees in making our initial credit decisions with respect to our loans and other debt products and in servicing our loans and other debt products after they have closed. Because there is generally little or no publicly available information about our customers, we cannot independently confirm or verify the information our employees provide us for use in making our credit and funding decisions. Errors by our employees in assembling, analyzing or recording information concerning our customers could cause us to originate loans or fund subsequent advances that we would not otherwise originate or fund, which could result in loan losses. Losses could also arise if any of our employees were dishonest, particularly if they colluded with a customer to misrepresent the creditworthiness of a prospective customer or to provide inaccurate reports regarding the customer’s compliance with the covenants in its loan or other debt products agreement. If, based on an employee’s dishonesty, we made a loan or other debt product to a customer that was not creditworthy or failed to exercise our rights under a loan or other debt product agreement against a customer that was not in compliance with covenants in the agreement, we could lose some or all of the principal of the loan or other debt product. Fraud or dishonesty on the part of our employees could also damage our reputation which could harm our competitive position and adversely affect our business. We may incur lender liability as a result of our lending activities. In recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers and others to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed “lender liability.” Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or stockholders. We may be subject to allegations of lender liability, which could be time-consuming and expensive to defend and result in significant liability. 23 Table of Contents We are not the sole lender or agent for most of our loans or other debt products. Consequently, we do not have absolute control over how these loans or other debt products are administered or have control over those loans. When we are not the sole lender or agent, we may be required to seek approvals from other lenders before we take actions to enforce our rights. A majority of our loan portfolio consists of loans and other debt products in which we are neither the sole lender, the agent for the lending group that receives payments under the loan or other debt product nor the agent that controls the underlying collateral. For these loans and other debt products, we may not have direct access to the customer and, as a result, may not receive the same financial or operational information as we receive for loans or other debt products for which we are the agent. This may make it more difficult for us to track or rate these loans or other debt products. Additionally, we may be prohibited or otherwise restricted from taking actions to enforce the loan or other debt product or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan or other debt product without the agreement of other lenders holding a specified minimum aggregate percentage, generally a majority or two-thirds of the outstanding principal balance. It is possible that an agent for one of these loans or other debt products may choose not to take the same actions to enforce the loan or other debt product or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan that we would have taken had we been the agent for the loan or other debt product. Our commitments to lend additional sums to customers may exceed our resources available to fund these commitments. Our contractual commitments to lend additional sums to our customers may exceed our resources available to fund these commitments. Some of our funding sources are only available to fund a portion of a loan and other funding sources may not be immediately available. Our customers’ ability to borrow these funds may be restricted until they are able to demonstrate, among other things, that they have sufficient collateral to secure the requested additional borrowings or that the borrowing conforms to specific uses or meets certain conditions. We may have miscalculated the likelihood that our customers will request additional borrowings in excess of our readily available funds. If our calculations prove incorrect, we will not have the funds to make these loan advances without obtaining additional financing. Our failure to satisfy our full contractual funding commitment to one or more of our customers could create breach of contract or other liabilities for us and damage our reputation in the marketplace, which could then adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because there is no active trading market for most of the loans and other debt products in our loan portfolio, we might not be able to sell them at a favorable price or at all. The lack of active secondary markets for some of our investments, such as our consumer mortgage investments, may also create uncertainty as to the value of these investments. We may seek to dispose of one or more of our loans and other debt products to obtain liquidity or to reduce or limit potential losses with respect to non-performing assets. There is no established trading market for most of our loans and other debt products. In addition, the fair value of other debt products that have lower levels of liquidity or are not publicly-traded may not be readily determinable and may fluctuate significantly on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis. Because these valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that we ultimately attain for these debt products or would be able to attain if we have to sell our other debt products. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. In addition, given the limited trading market for our loans and other debt products and the uncertainty as to their fair value at any point in time, if we seek to sell a loan or other debt product to obtain liquidity or reduce or limit losses, we may not be able to do so at a favorable price or at all. We selectively underwrite transactions that we may be unable to syndicate. On a selective basis, we commit to underwrite transactions that are significantly larger than our internal hold targets and we then seek to syndicate any amounts in excess of our target. As part of the syndication process to 24 Table of Contents the NCOF, we must hold the targeted loans for at least 31 days. After 31 days the NCOF may reject the loan should credit deteriorate. If we are unable to syndicate these commitments, we may have to sell the additional exposure on unfavorable terms, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if we must hold a larger portion of a transaction than we would like, we may not be able to complete other transactions and our loan portfolio may become more concentrated, which could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Funding and Leverage Our ability to grow our business depends on our ability to obtain external financing. If our lenders terminate any of our credit facilities or if we default on our credit facilities, we may not be able to continue to fund our business. We require a substantial amount of cash to provide new loans and other debt products and to fund our obligations to existing customers. In the past, we have obtained the cash required for our operations through the issuance of equity interests and by borrowing money through credit facilities, term debt securitizations and repurchase agreements. We may not be able to continue to access these or other sources of funds. As of December 31, 2006, we had four credit facilities subject to annual renewals, with aggregate commitments of $875.0 million and maturities ranging from 2007 to 2011. Substantially all of our non-securitized loans and other debt products are held in these facilities. Our credit facilities contain customary representations and warranties, covenants, conditions, events of default and termination events that if breached, not satisfied or triggered, could result in termination of the facility. Further, if our lenders do not renew a facility on the required annual renewal date, our ability to make new borrowings under that facility would terminate. Further, all cash flow generated by our loans and other debt products subject to that facility would go to pay down our borrowings thereunder rather than to us. Additionally, if the facility were terminated due to our breach, noncompliance or default, our lenders could liquidate or sell all of our loans and other debt products held in that facility. Also, if we trigger a default or there is a termination event under one facility and that default or termination results in a payment default or in the acceleration of that facility’s debt, it may trigger a default or termination event under our other facilities that have cross acceleration or payment cross default provisions. Consequently, if one or more of these facilities were to terminate prior to its expected maturity date, our liquidity position would be materially adversely affected, and we may not be able to satisfy our undrawn commitment balances, originate new loans or other debt products or continue to fund our operations. Even if we are able to refinance our debt, we may not be able to do so on favorable terms. If we are not able to obtain additional funding on favorable terms or at all, our ability to grow our business will be impaired. The terms of the repurchase agreements we use to obtain short-term financing could adversely affect our liquidity position if the value of the underlying loans were to fall. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $34.5 million of borrowings outstanding under 15 repurchase agreements. Repurchase agreements are short-term financings in which we sell debt products to a third party and have an obligation to repurchase the debt product on a future date. At December 31, 2006, the maturities of these agreements ranged from one to three months, and the counterparty had no obligation to renew these agreements upon expiration. These repurchase agreements provide that the counterparty may mark the debt products down to fair market value, as determined by the counterparty, at any time. If the value of the underlying asset were to fall, the counterparty may refuse to renew the agreement, require us to provide additional collateral to satisfy a margin call or to repurchase the underlying debt product at the original, higher value. If these agreements were not renewed for any reason or we were required to satisfy a margin call or repurchase the underlying debt products, our liquidity position could be adversely affected. Our lenders and noteholders could terminate us as servicer of our loans, which would adversely affect our ability to manage our loan portfolio and reduce our net interest income. Upon the occurrence of specified default events, our lenders under our credit facilities and the holders of the notes issued in our term debt securitizations may elect to terminate us as servicer of the loans and other debt 25 Table of Contents products under the applicable facility and appoint a successor servicer. These default events include, but are not limited to, the loss of any four named members of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our senior management nor have we taken any other precautions to offset the financial loss we could incur as a result of any of their departures. If we are terminated as servicer, we will no longer receive our servicing fee. In addition, because any successor servicer may not be able to service our loan portfolio according to our standards, any transfer of servicing to a successor servicer could result in reduced or delayed collections, delays in processing payments and information regarding the loans and other debt products and a failure to meet all of the servicing procedures required by the applicable servicing agreement. Consequently, the performance of our loans and other debt products could be adversely affected and our income generated from those loans and other debt products significantly reduced. Our liquidity position could be adversely affected if we were unable to complete additional term debt securitizations in the future. We have completed two term debt securitizations to fund our loans and other debt products, both of which we accounted for on our balance sheet, through which we issued $799.6 million of notes. Our term debt securitizations consist of asset securitization transactions in which we transfer loans and other debt products to a trust that aggregates our loans and, in turn, sells notes, collateralized by the trust’s assets, to institutional investors. The notes issued by the trusts have been rated by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. The ratings range from AAA to BB by Standard & Poor’s, Inc. and Fitch Ratings, Inc. and Aaa to Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., depending on the class of notes. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our goal in completing these transactions was to raise additional capital to pay down our borrowings under our credit facilities and to create additional liquidity under our credit facilities for use in funding our loan portfolio. We intend to complete additional term debt securitizations in the future. Several factors will affect demand for, and our ability to complete, additional term debt securitizations, including: • disruptions in the capital markets generally, and the asset-backed securities market in particular; • disruptions in the credit quality and performance of our loan portfolio, particularly that portion which has been previously securitized and serves as collateral for existing term debt securitizations; • our ability to service our loan portfolio must continue to be perceived as adequate to make the issued securities attractive to investors; and • any material downgrading or withdrawal of ratings given to securities previously issued in our term debt securitizations. If we are unable to complete additional term debt securitizations, our ability to obtain the capital needed for us to continue to operate and grow our business would be adversely affected. In addition, our credit facilities are only intended to provide short-term financing for our transactions. If we are unable to finance our transactions over the longer term through our term debt securitizations, our credit facilities may not be renewed. Moreover, our credit facilities typically carry a higher interest rate than our term debt securitizations. Accordingly, our inability to complete additional term debt securitizations in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and result of operations. The cash flows we receive from the interests we retain in our term debt securitizations could be delayed or reduced due to the requirements of the term debt securitization. We have retained 100% of the junior-most interests, which we refer to as the trust certificates, issued in the term debt securitizations, totaling $75.4 million in principal amount, issued in each of our two term debt 26 Table of Contents securitizations that we have completed through December 31, 2006. The notes issued in the term debt securitizations that we did not retain are senior to the trust certificates we did retain. Cash flows generated by the retained interest in these trust certificates were $10.7 million and $1.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our receipt of future cash flows on the trust certificates is governed by provisions that control the distribution of cash flows from the loans and other debt products included in our term debt securitizations. On a quarterly basis, interest cash flows from the loans and other debt products must first be used to pay the interest on the senior notes and expenses of the term debt securitization. Any funds remaining after the payment of these amounts are distributed to us. Several factors may influence the timing and amount of the cash flows we receive from loans and other debt products included in our term debt securitizations, including: • if any loan or other debt product included in a term debt securitization becomes 60 days or more delinquent or is charged off, all funds, after paying expenses and interest to the senior notes, go to a reserve account which then pays down an amount of senior notes equal to the amount of the delinquent loan or other debt product. Except for specified management fees, we will not receive any distributions from funds during this period; and • if other specified events occur to the trusts, for example a ratings downgrade or failure to receive ratings confirmation on a trust’s rated notes at the end of the ramp up period or the failure to comply with coverage ratios, our cash flows would be used to reduce the outstanding balance of the senior notes and would not be available to us until the full principal balance of the senior notes has been repaid. We have obtained a significant portion of our debt financing through a limited number of financial institutions. This concentration of funding sources exposes us to funding risks. We have obtained our credit facility financing from a limited number of financial institutions. Our reliance on the underwriters of our debt financing and their affiliates for a significant amount of our funding exposes us to funding risks. If these participating lenders determined to terminate our $875.0 million in credit facilities, we would need to establish new lending relationships to satisfy our funding needs. Risks Related to Our Operations and Financial Results Our quarterly net interest income and results of operations are difficult to forecast and may fluctuate substantially. Our quarterly net interest income and results of operations are difficult to forecast. We may experience substantial fluctuations in net interest income and results of operations from quarter to quarter. You should not rely on our results of operations in any prior reporting period to be indicative of our performance in future reporting periods. Many different factors could cause our results of operations to vary from quarter to quarter, including: • the success of our origination activities; • pre-payments on our loan portfolio; • credit losses and default rates; • our ability to enter into financing arrangements; • competition; • seasonal fluctuations in our business, including the timing of transactions; • costs of compliance with regulatory requirements; • private equity activity; 27 Table of Contents • the timing of any future acquisitions; • personnel changes; • changes in prevailing interest rates; • general changes to the U.S. and global economies; and • political conditions or events. We base our current and future operating expense levels and our investment plans on estimates of future net interest income, transaction activity and rate of growth. We expect that our expenses will increase in the future, and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our net interest income falls short of our expectations. Any shortfalls in our net interest income or in our expected growth rates could result in decreases in our stock price. We may be adversely affected by deteriorating economic or business conditions. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by deteriorating economic and business conditions in the markets in which we operate. Delinquencies, non-accruals and credit losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. Our Middle Market Corporate group primarily consists of loans to small and medium-sized businesses that may be particularly susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to make scheduled payments of interest or principal on their borrowings during these periods. In our Structured Products group, economic slowdowns or recessions or a decline in value of residential real estate could increase potential payment defaults on the residential real estate or home equity lines of credit underlying our investments in mortgage- and asset-backed securities. In our Commercial Real Estate group, economic slowdowns or recessions could increase potential payment defaults on the underlying commercial real estate. Therefore, to the extent that economic and business conditions deteriorate, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our loan portfolio is likely to decrease. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of the collateral, particularly real estate, securing some of our loans or other debt products. Further economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our loan portfolio and a decrease in our net interest income, net income and book value. Unfavorable economic conditions may also make it more difficult for us to maintain both our new origination volume and the credit quality of new business at levels previously attained. Unfavorable economic conditions could also increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could negatively impact our results of operations. Our business is highly dependent on key personnel. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Investment Officer as well as other key personnel. While we entered into employment agreements with each of these officers, if we were to lose the services of any of these executives for any reason, including voluntary resignation or retirement, we may not be able to replace them with someone of equal skill or ability and our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, we may not function well without the continued services of these executives. Potential acquisitions may adversely impact our business. Although we have not made any acquisitions to date, we may pursue acquisitions of other finance companies or debt portfolios in the future. We may experience difficulties in integrating any future acquisitions and we may not receive the expected benefits from those acquisitions because of: • heightened risks of credit losses as a result of acquired loans and other debt products not having been originated by us in accordance with our underwriting standards; 28 Table of Contents • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the potentially adverse effects that acquisitions may have in terms of the composition and performance of our loan portfolio; and • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. Future acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the incurrence of additional debt. We may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. Our ability to originate and underwrite loans and other debt products is dependent on the experience and expertise of our employees. In order to grow our business, we must attract and retain qualified personnel, especially origination and credit personnel with relationships with referral sources and an understanding of small and middle-market businesses and the industries in which our borrowers operate. Many of the financial institutions with which we compete for experienced personnel may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. If any of our key origination personnel leave, our new loan and other debt product volume from their business contacts may decline or cease, regardless of the terms of our loan and other debt product offerings or our level of service. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them and increases the costs of replacing them. As competition for qualified employees grows, our cost of labor could increase, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We will be exposed to risks relating to the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are in the process of evaluating, testing and implementing internal controls over financial reporting to enable management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, such internal controls as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we anticipate being compliant with the requirements of Section 404 by our December 31, 2007 deadline, we cannot be certain as to the timing of the completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to investigation and sanctions by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ. Our failure to comply with Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the diversion of management time and attention from operating our business and the expenditure of substantial financial resources on remediation activities. In addition, such failure may make it more difficult and costly to attract and retain independent board and audit committee members. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal controls and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such actions could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our results of operations. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We intend to conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which we refer to as the Investment Company Act. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines as an investment company any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40.0% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Excluded from the term “investment securities” are, among other things, securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. 29 Table of Contents We expect that many of our majority-owned subsidiaries, including those which we have created (or may in the future create) in connection with our term debt securitizations, will rely on exceptions and exemptions from the Investment Company Act available to certain structured finance companies and that our interests in those subsidiaries will not constitute “investment securities” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. Because these exceptions and exemptions may, among other things, limit the types of assets these subsidiaries may purchase or counterparties with which we may deal, we must monitor each subsidiary’s compliance with its applicable exception or exemption. We must also monitor our loan portfolio to ensure that the value of the investment securities we hold does not exceed 40.0% of our total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. If the combined value of the investment securities issued by our subsidiaries that are investment companies or that must rely on the exceptions provided by Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act rather than another exception or exemption, together with any other investment securities we may own, exceeds 40.0% of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis, we may be deemed to be an investment company. Because we believe that the interests we hold in our subsidiaries generally will not be investment securities, we do not expect to own nor do we propose to acquire investment securities in excess of 40.0% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. We intend to monitor for compliance with the Investment Company Act on an ongoing basis and may be compelled to take or refrain from taking actions, to acquire additional income or loss generating assets or to forego opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial or advisable, including, but not limited to selling assets that are considered to be investment securities or foregoing sale of assets which are not investment securities, in order to ensure that we (or a subsidiary) may continue to rely on the applicable exceptions or exemptions. These limitations on our freedom of action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain an exemption, exception or other exclusion from registration as an investment company, we could, among other things, be required to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations either to avoid being required to register as an investment company or to register as an investment company. If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to, among other things, our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, criminal and civil actions could be brought against us, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court were to require enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 