D. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY We may fail to effectively develop and commercialize new products, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The medical device market is developing rapidly and related technology trends are constantly evolving. This results in frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles and significant price competition. Consequently, our success substantially depends on our ability to anticipate technology development trends and identify, develop and commercialize in a timely and cost-effective manner new and advanced products that our customers demand. New products contribute significantly to our net revenues. We expect the medical device market to continue evolving toward newer and more advanced products, many of which we do not currently produce. Commercialization of any new product requires relevant government approvals, the timing of which may not be under our control, and is subject to change from time to time. Moreover, it may take an extended period of time for our new products to gain market acceptance, if at all. Furthermore, as the life cycle for a product matures, the average selling price generally decreases. Although we have previously partially offset the effects of declining average sales prices with sales volume increases and manufacturing cost reductions, we may be unable to continue doing so. Lastly, during a product’s life cycle, problems may arise regarding regulatory, intellectual property, product liability or other issues which may affect its continued commercial viability. Our success in developing and commercializing new products is determined by our ability to: • accurately assess technology trends and customer needs and meet market demands; • optimize our manufacturing and procurement processes to predict and control costs; • manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner; • increase customer awareness and acceptance of our products; • effectively manage our brands; • minimize the time and costs required to obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals; 5 Table of Contents • anticipate and compete effectively with other medical device developers, manufacturers and marketers; • price our products competitively, including providing financing to our customers; and • effectively integrate customer feedback into our research and development planning. We depend on distributors for a substantial portion of our revenues. Failure to maintain relationships with our distributors would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations. We depend on distributors for a substantial portion of our revenues. We typically do not have long-term distribution agreements; however, beginning in 2011, we began to sign 3-year distribution agreements with certain of our key distributors. Certain of our past and current distribution agreements may have contained terms that were not favorable to us, and as our existing distribution agreements expire, we may be unable to renew with our desired distributors on favorable terms or at all. In addition, we seek to limit our dependence on any single distributor by limiting and periodically redefining the scope of each distributor’s territory and the range of our products that it sells, which may make us less attractive to some distributors. Furthermore, competition for distributors is intense. We compete for distributors domestically and internationally with other leading medical equipment and device companies that may have higher visibility, greater name recognition and financial resources, and a broader product selection than we do. Our competitors also often enter into long-term distribution agreements that effectively prevent their distributors from selling our products. At times, we may also become engaged in contract disputes or other negotiations with distributors. Consequently, maintaining relationships with existing distributors and replacing distributors may be difficult and time consuming. Any disruption of our distribution network, including our failure to renew distribution agreements with our desired distributors at favorable terms or our failure to successfully negotiate contract disputes, could negatively affect our ability to effectively sell our products and would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to effectively structure and manage our distribution network, and our business, prospects and brand may be materially and adversely affected by actions taken by our distributors. We have limited ability to manage the activities of our distributors, who are independent from us. Our distributors could take one or more of the following actions, some of which we have previously experienced, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and brand: • sell products that compete with our products that they have contracted to sell for us; • sell our products outside their designated territory, possibly in violation of the exclusive distribution rights of other distributors; • fail to adequately predict and maintain appropriate levels of distributor inventory reserve, which could cause an uneven and unpredictable sales flow; • fail to adequately promote our products; or • fail to provide proper training, repair and service to our end-users. Furthermore, our distributors may focus selling efforts only on those products that provide them with the largest margins at the expense of products that offer them smaller margins. Failure to adequately manage our distribution network, or non-compliance by distributors with our distribution agreements could harm our corporate image among end-users of our products and disrupt our sales, resulting in a failure to meet our sales goals. 6 Table of Contents We maintain direct operations in the United States and Europe that are costly and the ongoing maintenance costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. We maintain direct operations in the United States and Europe and rely on direct sales for a significant portion of our revenues from these areas. Maintaining a direct sales force is costly. We typically provide our direct operations personnel with payroll and other benefits that we do not provide independent distributors. Many of these benefits are fixed costs that do not depend on revenue generation. Maintaining these direct operations is costly and ongoing maintenance costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. Maintaining a direct sales force and independent distribution network in the United States and in Europe could result in potential sales conflicts that would negatively impact our revenue and results of operations. We maintain both a direct sales force and an independent distribution network in the United States and in Europe, creating the potential for conflict between them. If our independent distributors and direct sales force compete with each other in any designated territory, our independent distributors could reduce their selling prices for our products to make sales. Because we generate higher revenues from direct sales, this would negatively impact our revenue. Further, independent existing and potential distributors may decide not to sell our products or cease selling our products because of this potential conflict. Moreover, sales conflicts could negatively impact the morale of our direct sales force. We may undertake acquisitions, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, and may end up being unsuccessful. Our growth strategy may involve acquisitions of new technologies, businesses, products or services or the creation of strategic alliances in areas in which we do not currently operate. Our integration of future acquired entities into our business may not be successful and may not enable us to expand into new or existing markets as well as we expect. This would significantly affect the expected benefits of these acquisitions. Future acquisitions could require that our management develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. For example, in 2008, we acquired the patient monitoring business of Datascope Corp. The integration of acquired entities into our operations have required, and will continue to require, significant attention from our management. In 2011, we acquired two, and were completing the acquisition of two additional China-based companies that produced medical equipment, devices or other products. While we conducted customary due diligence with respect to these acquisitions, we may not have identified and may not be aware of all of the risks associated with the acquisitions. In addition, as we did not obtain full ownership in these companies, we may not realize the benefits of such acquisitions as we are unable to fully control the management of such companies. These risks and risks associated with our integration of the acquired businesses could have an adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Future acquisitions will also likely present similar challenges and may also expose us to other potential risks, including risks associated with unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, our inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset related costs, expenses of acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with distributors, customers, suppliers and employees as a result of our integration of new businesses and new regulations governing international markets. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to realize the benefits we anticipate from acquiring companies, or that we will not incur costs, including those relating to intangibles or goodwill, in excess of our projected costs for these transactions. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. 7 Table of Contents International operations may be costly, time-consuming and difficult. If we do not successfully operate internationally, our profitability and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Our success significantly depends upon our ability to operate in our existing international markets and enter into new international markets. In operating and expanding our business internationally, we have entered and intend to continue to enter markets in which we have limited or no experience and in which our brand may be less recognized. In our international operations we have experienced increasingly intense competitive conditions and we may fail to anticipate competitive conditions in our existing markets and any new markets we may expand into. These competitive conditions may make it difficult or impossible for us to effectively operate in these markets. To further promote our brand and generate demand for our products so as to attract distributors in international markets, we expect to spend more on marketing and promotion than we do in our existing markets. We may be unable to attract a sufficient number of distributors, and our selected distributors may not be suitable for selling our products. If our international operations and expansion efforts in existing and new markets are unsuccessful, our profitability and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to other risks associated with international operations, including: • political instability; • economic instability and recessions; • changes in tariffs; • difficulties of administering foreign operations generally; • fluctuations in local currencies against the RMB; • implementation of foreign exchange controls; • limited protection for intellectual property rights; • obligations to comply with a wide variety of foreign laws and other regulatory requirements; • burdens on working capital due to financing issues for our accounts receivables, particularly in developing markets; • healthcare reforms; • increased risk of exposure to terrorist activities; • difficulties obtaining raw materials or product supplies or other logistical issues due to natural disasters; • financial condition, expertise and performance of our international distributors; • export license requirements; • unauthorized re-export of our products; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • inability to effectively enforce contractual or legal rights. Consolidation of our customer base and the formation of group purchasing organizations could adversely affect our revenues. In recent years, consolidation among health-care providers and the formation of purchasing groups has imposed pricing pressures. Our success in areas of health care provider consolidation and where purchasing organizations have been formed depends partly on our ability to enter into contracts with group purchasing organizations and integrated health networks. If we are unable to enter into contracts with group purchasing organizations and integrated health networks on satisfactory terms or at all, our revenues would be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our success significantly depends upon the continued service of our key executives and other key employees. In particular, we are highly dependent on our co-chief executive officers, Mr. Xu Hang and Mr. Li Xiting and on our other key senior management to manage our business and operations. If we lose the services of any key senior management, we may not be able to locate suitable or qualified replacements, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. Furthermore, as we expect to continue to expand our operations and develop new products, we will need to continue attracting and retaining experienced management, key research and development personnel, and salespeople. Competition for personnel in the medical technology field is intense, and the availability of suitable and qualified candidates in China, particularly Shenzhen, is limited. We compete to attract and retain qualified research and development personnel with other medical device companies, universities and research institutions. Competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we grant share incentive awards, such awards may cease to be effective to retain our current employees once the shares are vested and bonus amounts are paid out. We may need to increase our total compensation costs to attract and retain experienced personnel required to achieve our business objectives and failure to do so could severely disrupt our business and growth. Our business is subject to intense competition, which may reduce demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The medical device market is highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify. In particular, competition in our market segments has continued to intensify in recent years, creating significant pricing pressure. We face direct competition in China, the U.S. and globally across all product lines and price points. Our competitors also vary significantly according to business segments. Our competitors include publicly traded and privately held multinational companies, as well as local companies in the markets where we sell our products. Certain competitors will additionally move from their established market segments into market segments we have historically focused on. We face competition from companies that have local operations in the markets in which we sell our products who may have lower cost structures, domestic support, or local protection through tariff and non-tariff barriers. We face competition from companies that have or may have: • greater financial and other resources; • larger variety of products; • more products that have received regulatory approvals; • greater access to public equity markets or financing options; • greater pricing flexibility; • availability of financing for our customers; • more extensive research and development and technical capabilities; • patent portfolios that may present an obstacle to our conduct of business; • greater knowledge of local market conditions where we seek to increase our international sales; • capability to offer vendor financing or leasing arrangements; • more preferential treatment locally due to government policies; • stronger brand recognition; and • larger sales and distribution networks. 9 Table of Contents As a result, we may be unable to offer products similar to, or more desirable than, those offered by our competitors, market our products as effectively as our competitors, or otherwise respond successfully to competitive pressures. In addition, our competitors may be able to offer discounts on competing products as part of a bundle of non-competing products, systems and services that they sell to our customers, and we may not be able to match those discounts. Furthermore, our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently offer or that render our products obsolete or uncompetitive. In addition, the introduction of competing products could affect our products’ market acceptance and market share. Our failure to compete successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects. Moreover, some of our competitors based outside China have established or are in the process of establishing production and research and development facilities in China, while others have entered into cooperative business arrangements with Chinese manufacturers. If we are unable to develop competitive products, obtain regulatory approval or clearance and supply sufficient quantities to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors, market acceptance of our products may be limited, which could result in decreased sales. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our manufacturing cost advantage. In other emerging markets, we have also seen larger competitors setting up sizable local businesses or acquiring local competitors or distributors, which allow them to be more competitive in their pricing and distribution infrastructure. We may be unable to ensure compliance with anti-corruption laws. We could be liable for violations of applicable law, including China’s anti-corruption laws, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), and the Bribery Act 2010 of England and Wales (UK Bribery Act), arising in connection with the marketing and distribution of our products. Due to the conditions of competition in the markets for medical devices in China and other emerging markets, we believe that corrupt practices may still occur within our industry. Such practices in China may involve inappropriate and unlawful payments or favors to influence procurement decision of customers, regulatory approval decisions of the State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA), and clinical trials conducted by Chinese hospitals and medical institutions. Many of the individuals involved in these processes would qualify as “foreign government officials” under the FCPA, and improper payments to such recipients may violate the antibribery provisions of the FCPA and other applicable anticorruption laws. Numerous enforcement actions by government authorities in the U.S., China, and other jurisdictions have involved corruption in the medical device industry. We have adopted policies to ensure compliance with applicable laws concerning corrupt practices, and are taking measures to update and strengthen these policies. However, as competition intensifies in the medical device industry in these markets, we cannot guarantee that our employees will not intentionally violate applicable anti-corruption laws. Because individual employees may find it difficult in some circumstances to distinguish appropriate practices for establishing and maintaining constructive relationships with business contacts from inappropriate practices, we cannot guarantee that our employees will not inadvertently violate applicable anti-corruption laws. We may also be held liable for actions taken by our distributors even though a majority of our distributors are non-U.S. companies that are not subject to the FCPA or the UK Bribery Act. Our distributors may violate these laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices with respect to their sales or marketing of our products. If we or our distributors violate these laws, we could be required to pay damages or fines, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our brand and reputation, our sales activities or the price of our ADSs could be adversely affected if our company becomes the target of any negative publicity as a result of actions taken by our distributors. Recent publicity surrounding China-based companies listed in the United States may result in increased regulatory scrutiny of us. Litigation and negative publicity surrounding companies with operations in China that are listed in the United States have resulted in declining stock prices for such companies. Various equity based research organizations, such as Muddy Waters Research, have published reports on China-based companies after 10 Table of Contents examining their corporate governance practices, related party transactions, sales practices and financial statements that have led to special investigations and stock suspensions on national exchanges. Any similar scrutiny of us, regardless of its lack of merit, could result in a diversion of management resources and energy, potential costs to defend ourselves against rumors, loss in share price and share price volatility, and increased directors and officers’ insurance premiums and could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operation. If we fail to accurately project demand for our products, we may encounter problems of inadequate supply or oversupply, especially with respect to our international markets and government tender sales in China, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as damage our reputation and brand. Our distributors typically order our products on a purchase order basis. We project demand for our products based on rolling projections from our distributors, our understanding of anticipated hospital procurement spending, and distributor inventory levels. Lack of significant order backlog and the varying sales and purchasing cycles of our distributors and other customers, however, make it difficult for us to forecast future demand accurately. Our projections of market demand for our products in countries where we lack a direct sales force are generally less reliable than in countries where we do have a direct sales force because we have less information available on which to base our projections. Specifically, we do not have consistently reliable information regarding international distributor inventory levels in these markets, and we sometimes lack extensive knowledge of local market conditions or about distributor purchasing patterns, preferences, or cycles. Furthermore, because shipping finished products to international distributors typically takes longer than shipping to domestic distributors, inaccurate demand projections can result more quickly in unmet demand. We additionally may have unpredictably large tender sales orders for which we may have insufficient inventory to fill along with the additional orders in our pipeline. If we overestimate demand, we may purchase more raw materials or components than required. If we underestimate demand, our third party suppliers may have inadequate raw material or product component inventories, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay shipments, and could result in lost sales. In particular, we are seeking to manage our procurement and inventory costs by matching our inventories closely with our projected manufacturing needs and by, from time to time, deferring our purchase of raw materials and components in anticipation of supplier price reductions. As we seek to balance reduced inventory costs and production flexibility, we may fail to accurately forecast demand and coordinate our procurement and production to meet demand on a timely basis. Our inability to accurately predict our demand and to timely meet our demand could materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations as well as damage our reputation and corporate brand. Our business may be affected by recent healthcare reforms. On January 21, 2009, China launched its three-year healthcare reform initiative, initially pledging to provide up to RMB850 billion in healthcare reform projects throughout China. In 2011, the Chinese government released its 12th Five-Year Plan, the guidance for social, economic and environmental development for the country over the next five years. The Five-Year Plan discussed efforts to deepen the reform of China’s health care system, including increased allowances for medical insurance plans in both rural and urban areas and expanding the coverage of the country’s essential medicine system to village clinics and non-government-run primary healthcare institutions and ensuring universal access to basic health care services. These healthcare reform acts and future healthcare reform could adversely affect our business in several ways, including: • Reduced demand for our products. Healthcare reforms may provide funding and incentives for specific products we do not provide or target customers such as larger hospitals that currently account for a smaller portion of our customer base. 11 Table of Contents • Pricing pressures. Our existing customers may be incentivized by healthcare reform subsidies or tax incentives to defer purchases of our products in favor of those which are subsidized or have beneficial tax implications. • Changes in customer spending patterns. Healthcare reform may additionally be targeted at individuals rather than hospitals, which could affect the spending patterns of our customers in ways we may not be able to anticipate. For example, increased insurance coverage for PRC residents under the healthcare reform initiative could potentially increase patronage at larger sized hospitals rather than county-level hospitals and local clinics, which could cause our sales to such county-level hospitals and local clinics to decrease. On March 23, 2010, the United States passed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, shortly thereafter amended by the Heath Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the Reconciliation Act, on March 30, 2010. The Reconciliation Act added section 4191 to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which imposes a new excise tax on the sale of certain medical devices by the manufacturer, producer or importer in the amount equal to 2.3% of the sale price. This new excise tax will be effective beginning January 1, 2013. Additional guidance about the new excise tax, including the types of medical devices subject to this tax, is expected later this year. Additionally, challenges to the constitutionality of healthcare reform acts in the United States may have caused uncertainty in hospital spending, contributing to modest hospital spending in 2010 and 2011. We are unable to predict the current and future effects of healthcare reform, including the impact of the new excise tax, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently principally rely on four facilities for manufacturing, assembly and storage of our products and to conduct research and development activities. Any disruption to our current manufacturing facilities or in the development of any of these facilities could reduce or restrict our sales and harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We manufacture, assemble and store a substantial majority of our products, as well as conduct some of our research and development activities at our two facilities located in Shenzhen, China. We also manufacture, assemble and store products and conduct some of our research and development activities at our Mahwah, New Jersey facility and at our facility in Nanjing, China. We do not maintain other back-up facilities, so we depend on these facilities for the continued operation of our business. A natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruptions, water shortage, storms, fires, earthquakes, terrorist attacks and wars, could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business, as well as delay our research and development activities. Our facilities and certain equipment located in these facilities would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Catastrophic events may also destroy any inventory located in our facilities. The occurrence of such an event could materially and adversely affect our business. We are also in the process of developing a reagent manufacturing plant in China, to be completed by the end of 2014. We may experience difficulties that disrupt our manufacturing activities, management and administration, or research and development as we migrate and expand into this facility. We may additionally encounter difficulties obtaining regulatory approval for construction and development. Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our development of this facility. Any of these factors could divert the attention of our management, reduce or restrict our sales and harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of required materials and components that meet our production standards at acceptable costs or at all, our ability to accept and fulfill product orders with the required quality and at the required time could be restricted, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase raw materials and components from third party suppliers and manufacture and assemble our products at our facilities. Our purchases are generally made on a purchase order basis and we do not have 12 Table of Contents long-term supply contracts. As a result, our suppliers may cease to provide components to us with little or no advance notice. From time to time we may also have contract disputes or other negotiations with our suppliers and our OEM/ODM partners. Interruptions in certain material or component supplies could delay our manufacturing and assembly processes. We also may be unable to secure alternative supply sources in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of required materials and components that meet our production standards at acceptable costs or at all, our ability to accept and fulfill product orders with the required quality, and at the required time could be restricted. For example, on March 11, 2011, a severe earthquake and tsunami hit the northeastern coast of Japan, causing widespread damage. Although we were able to adjust for the interruption to our supply chain by finding alternate suppliers and increasing our supply reserves, similar disruptions to purchases of raw materials or components from suppliers and manufacturers from Japan or any other region could impact our working capital, harm our reputation, reduce our sales or gross margins, and cause us to lose market share, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuing our growth strategy will strain our management, operational and other resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. Our growth strategy includes building our brand, increasing market penetration of our existing products, developing new products, increasing our targeting of large-sized hospitals in China, and increasing our exports. Implementing our growth strategy has resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial demands on management resources. In particular, pursuing our growth strategy will require, among other things: • enhancing our research and development capabilities; • hiring and training new personnel; • enhancing our information technology and client-relationship management systems; • stringent cost controls; • sufficient liquidity; • strengthening financial and management controls; and • increasing marketing, sales and sales support activities. If we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategy, our business and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. We may need additional capital, and we may be unable to obtain such capital in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. We may need additional capital to grow, remain competitive, develop new products, or expand our distribution network. Our ability to obtain additional capital is subject to numerous uncertainties, including: • our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for capital raising activities by medical device and related companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and internationally. We may be unable to obtain additional capital in a timely manner or on acceptable terms or at all. Such inability could materially affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 13 Table of Contents We depend on information technology, or IT, to support our business operations, the failure of which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. In 2010, we implemented the SAP ERP systems to update the existing systems of our U.S. and European operations, building a globally integrated IT infrastructure consistent across our China, U.S. and European operations. This integration is complicated by broad geographies, differing languages and business models with local features among our China-based and our acquired operations. In 2011, we implemented a new client-relationship management system for our China sales operations, and gradually extended this system to our other offices. Our primary China-based IT operations are located in Shenzhen and include our data centre, production, standby facilities and backup storage. We also have smaller local IT operations at our sites in the U.S. and Europe. Any physical damage to our IT systems, including by natural disasters or intentional acts of vandalism, would create significant disruptions to our business and operations and would be costly to repair. Additionally, any failure of our IT systems across our China, U.S. and European operations could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention, which could harm our business and competitive position. The lessors of some of our leased properties may have lacked authority to enter into the leases. If we are forced to vacate these premises, it could materially disrupt our operations. Shenzhen Mindray leases properties for manufacturing purposes. The lessors failed to provide us with the ownership certificates for the leased properties. If the lessors entering into the lease agreements with Shenzhen Mindray are not the de facto owners of the leased properties and lacked the authority to enter into these lease agreements, the validity of these lease agreements may be contested and we may be forced to vacate these premises, which could materially disrupt our operations. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, it could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and non-disclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. We have patents issued in China and the U.S. covering various products and aspects of our products. We also have pending patent applications in China, the U.S., Europe, and India, which cover some of the more commercially significant aspects of our products and technologies. Due to the different regulatory bodies and varying requirements in the United States, China and elsewhere, we may be unable to obtain patent protection for certain aspects of our products or technologies in any of these countries. The process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive, our patent applications may fail to result in patents being issued, and our existing and future patents may be insufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Our patents and patent applications may also be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We also rely on trade secret rights to protect our business through non-disclosure provisions in employment agreements with employees. If our China-based employees breach their non-disclosure obligations, we may not have adequate remedies in China, and our trade secrets may become known to our competitors. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and enforcement difficulties. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other western countries. Furthermore, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we may need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. Such litigation and an adverse determination in any such litigation, if any, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention, which could harm our business and competitive position. 14 Table of Contents We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement and other claims by third parties which, if successful, could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing third party intellectual property rights. We periodically receive written correspondence regarding alleged intellectual property or other claims by third parties. As we increase our product sales internationally, and as litigation becomes more common in China, we face a higher risk of being the subject of claims for intellectual property infringement, invalidity or indemnification relating to other parties’ proprietary rights. Our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have or may obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in China, the U.S. or Europe. The validity and scope of claims relating to medical device technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, as a result, may be highly uncertain. In addition, the defense of intellectual property suits, including patent infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. We may also engage in settlement or other negotiated agreements to avoid further costs associated with defense of intellectual property suits. For example, in 2011, we and certain Datascope entities agreed that we would acquire all rights, title and interest in certain trademarks, service marks and other names in exchange for a one-time payment to Datascope of $7.0 million and the grant to Datascope of an exclusive 20-year limited license of certain of such trademarks, service marks and other names. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could cause us to: • pay damage awards; • seek licenses from third parties; • pay ongoing royalties; • redesign our products; or • be restricted by injunctions, each of which could effectively prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business and result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Disputes over use of our brand names or the brand names we license, the expenses incurred in developing and preserving the value of our brand name, and any loss of rights to use our brand names or the brand names we license as a result of challenge, may adversely affect our business. We regard our brand names as critical to our success. Disputes over use of our brand names or the brand names we license may adversely affect our business and reputation, including the perceived quality and reliability of our products. We rely on trademark law, company brand name protection policies, and agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect the value of our brand names. Despite our precautions, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our brand names without authorization, including the unauthorized use of our domain names. We have experienced unauthorized use of our domain names and are currently in the process of reclaiming certain of our domain names, in accordance with the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy adopted by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (“ICANN”). We have also experienced unauthorized use of our brand names in China and have expended resources and the attention and time of our management to successfully prosecute those who used our brand names without authorization. Moreover, litigation may be necessary to protect our brand names. However, because the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of trademarks in the PRC are uncertain and still evolving, we may not be successful in prosecuting these cases. Litigation could also result in substantial costs 15 Table of Contents and diversion of our resources and loss of trademark rights, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are in the process of registering our brand names and logos as trademarks in countries outside of China. Our registration applications may not be successful in certain countries, which could weaken the protection of our brand names in those countries or may require that we market our products under different names in those countries. If we fail to obtain or maintain applicable regulatory clearances or approvals for our products, or if such clearances or approvals are delayed, we will be unable to commercially distribute and market our products at all or in a timely manner, which could significantly disrupt our business and materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability. The sale and marketing of the medical device products we offer in China are subject to regulation in China and in most other countries where we conduct business. For a significant portion of our sales, we need to obtain and renew licenses and registrations with the PRC State Food and Drug Administration, or SFDA, the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and the European regulators administering CE marks in the European Union. The processes for obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals can be lengthy and expensive, and the results are unpredictable. In addition, the relevant regulatory authorities may introduce additional requirements or procedures that have the effect of delaying or prolonging the regulatory clearance or approval for our existing or new products. From time to time, we may be subject to inspections by regulators including the FDA on our quality systems and regulatory compliance. If we are unable to obtain clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new products, or obtain such clearances or approvals in a timely fashion, or there is any material deficiency in our quality systems, we could be subject to penalties ranging from warning letters to embargos on our products, and as a result, our business would be significantly disrupted, and our sales and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to comply with applicable import and export related laws and regulations for our products could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We primarily manufacture our products in China and then sell our products through different distribution channels in different geographies. We must comply with import and export related laws and regulations in every region we do business in, including China, the U.S., and Europe. Import and export related laws, rules and regulations differ from region to region and our inability to comply with such regulations, rules and laws may have the effect of delaying or prolonging the regulatory clearance or approval for our existing or new products. Failure to comply with import and export related laws and regulations for our products could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be unable to ensure compliance with United States economic sanctions laws, especially when we sell our products to distributors over which we have limited control, which could have a material and adverse affect on our reputation and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, administers certain laws and regulations that impose penalties upon U.S. persons and, in some instances, foreign entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons, for conducting activities or transacting business with certain countries, governments, entities or individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions. We sell our products in international markets through independent non-U.S. distributors which are responsible for interacting with the end-users of our products. Some of these independent non-U.S. distributors are located in or conduct business with countries subject to U.S. Economic sanctions, such as Cuba, North Korea, Sudan, Iran, Syria and Myanmar. We may be unable to ensure that those distributors comply with any applicable U.S. economic sanctions. 16 Table of Contents Moreover, if a U.S. distributor, one of our U.S. subsidiaries or one of our subsidiaries selling products with U.S. manufactured parts conducts activities or transacts business with a country, government, entity or individual subject to U.S. economic sanctions, such actions may violate U.S. law. As a result of the foregoing, actions could be taken against us, including the incurring of monetary sanctions or injunctions that could materially and adversely affect our reputation and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to product liability exposure and have limited insurance coverage. Any product liability claims or regulatory actions could be costly and time-consuming to defend, damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our main products are medical devices used in diagnosing and monitoring patients, exposing us to potential product liability claims if their use causes or results in, or is alleged to have caused or resulted in, in each case either directly or indirectly, personal injuries or other adverse effects. Any product liability claims or regulatory actions could be costly and time-consuming to defend. If successful, product liability claims may require us to pay substantial damages. We maintain limited product liability insurance to cover potential product liability arising from the use of our products. As a result, future liability claims could be excluded or could exceed the coverage limits of our policy. As we expand our sales internationally and increase our exposure to these risks in many countries, we may be unable to maintain sufficient product liability insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A product liability claim or potential safety-related regulatory action, with or without merit, could result in significant negative publicity and materially and adversely affect the marketability of our products and our reputation, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, a material design, manufacturing or quality failure or defect in our products, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny could each warrant a product recall by us and result in increased product liability claim. For example, we will voluntarily recall a product when we detect a potential assembly error. If authorities in the countries where we sell our products decide that any of our products fail to conform to applicable quality and safety requirements, we could be subject to regulatory action. In China, violation of PRC product quality and safety requirements may subject us to confiscation of related earnings, penalties, an order to cease sales of the violating product or to cease operations pending rectification. Furthermore, if the violation is determined to be serious, our business license to manufacture or sell violating and other products could be suspended or revoked. Government tender sales in China have and will continue to be a smaller portion of our revenues. We have historically generated certain portions of our China revenues from government tenders sales. Tender sales in China are a discretionary decision driven by government policies and can vary in terms of magnitude and timing of sales. For example, due to economic stimulation and healthcare reforms in China in 2009, our sales through government tender sales in China were almost doubled in comparison with the previous year. However, in 2010, our revenues from government tender sales in China dropped significantly due to lack of government spending on tender sales, and our revenues from government tender sales in China remained flat in 2011. We expect this trend of uncertainty and low government tender sales to continue in the near future. Our inability to accurately predict trends in government tender sales in China could cause us to underestimate demand and timely meet demand for our products, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. The global economic downturn adversely affected, and could continue adversely affecting, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We experienced a global economic downturn affecting all areas of business, including health care. Disruptions in orderly financial markets resulting from, among other factors, government instability, diminished liquidity and credit availability plus volatile valuations of securities and other investments caused business and 17 Table of Contents consumer confidence to ebb, business activities to slow down, and unemployment to increase. For example, uncertainties surrounding European sovereign debt could affect our direct sales and distribution networks in Europe, while political instability in countries in the Middle East could disrupt our distribution networks in such countries. We are unable to predict global economic conditions. The economic downturn adversely affected and could continue adversely affecting our business in several ways, including: • Reduced demand for our products. Customers may adopt a strategy of deferring purchases to upgrade existing equipment or deploy new equipment until later periods when visibility of their cash flows becomes more assured. In addition, customers who must finance their capital expenditures through various forms of debt may find financing unavailable to them. • Increased pricing pressure and lower margins. Our competitors include several global enterprises with relatively greater size in terms of revenues, working capital, financial resources and number of employees, and some of our end-users are healthcare service providers who are typically owned, controlled, or sponsored by governments. Competition for available sales may become more intense, which could require us to offer or accept pricing, payment, or local content terms which are less favorable to remain competitive. In some cases we might be unwilling or unable to compete for business where competitive pressures make a potential opportunity unprofitable to us. • Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. Many of our end-users are either owned or controlled by governments; any changes in such governments’ policies concerning the authorization or funding of payments for capital expenditures could lengthen the cash collection cycle of our distributors, which could cause our liquidity to deteriorate if our distributors are unable to pay us on time. Additionally, sales made to our distributors or other customers whose financial resources may be subject to rapid decline, has caused and could continue to cause us to lose sales, delaying revenue recognition or causing greater collection risks due to credit quality issues. • Greater difficulty in obtaining supplies, components and related services. Some suppliers or vendors could choose to provide supplies or services to us on more stringent payment terms than those currently in place, such as by requiring advance payment or payment upon delivery of such supplies or services. Additionally, some suppliers might experience a worsening financial condition causing them to either withdraw from the market or be unable to meet our expected timing for the receipt of goods ordered from them, either of which condition could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers and lengthen the cycle time for transforming customer orders into cash receipts. Additionally, if it is necessary to seek alternative sources of supply, the effects on our costs, cycle time for cash collections, and customer satisfaction with us are uncertain. • Additional restructuring and impairment charges. If we are unable to generate the level of revenues, profits, and cash flow contemplated by our business plan, management may be forced to take further action to focus our business activities and align our cost structure with anticipated revenues. These actions, if necessary could result in additional restructuring charges and/or asset impairment charges being recognized in 2012 and beyond. The economic downturn has affected, among others, the United States, Europe, the Middle East and North Africa, which we believe has affected medical product purchasing in these regions. The economic downturn could continue adversely affecting our business and could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and could fall below investor expectations, which could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly depending upon numerous factors. In particular, the first and third quarters of each year historically have lower, and the fourth quarter historically has higher revenues and operating results than the other quarters of the year. We believe that our weaker first quarter performance has been largely due to the Chinese Lunar New Year holiday and that our weaker third quarter performance has largely been due to summer holidays. We believe our stronger fourth quarter performance has been largely due to our customers spending their remaining annual budget amounts. Other factors that may affect our quarterly results include: • global economic conditions; • our ability to attract and retain distributors and key customers; • changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • fluctuations in PRC government spending on healthcare and stimulus programs; • United States and PRC healthcare reform; • variations in customer purchasing cycles; • our sales and delivery cycle length; • the timing and market acceptance of new product introductions by us or our competitors; • our ability to expand into and further penetrate international markets; • the timing of receipt of government incentives; • inventory value readjustments due to year-end supplier pricing renegotiation; • changes in the industry operating environment; • changes in government policies or regulations, including new product approval procedures, or their enforcement; and • availability of financing for healthcare facilities. Many of these factors are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline below investor expectations. You should not rely on our results of operations for prior quarters as an indication of our future results. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. As of December 31, 2011, our cash and cash equivalents were denominated in Renminbi, U.S. dollars, Euros and the British pound. As a result, exchange rate fluctuations between the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar, the Euro and the pound affect our relative purchasing power, revenue, expenses and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi, Euro and the pound relative to the U.S. dollar could affect our financial results prepared and reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Renminbi is pegged against a basket of currencies, determined by the People’s Bank of China, against which it can rise or fall by as much as 0.5% each day. The Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar, the Euro or the pound in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued, or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, the Euro or the pound. Fluctuations in exchange rates will also affect the relative value of any dividends we issue, which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make. Appreciation of the Renminbi relative to other foreign currencies could decrease the per unit revenues 19 Table of Contents generated from international sales. If we increased our international pricing to compensate for the reduced purchasing power of foreign currencies, we would decrease the market competitiveness, on a price basis, of our products. This could result in a decrease in our international sales volumes. Very limited hedging instruments are available in China to reduce our exposure to Renminbi exchange rate fluctuations. We have entered into certain forward contracts to reduce our liability to several foreign currencies, however, the effectiveness of these forward contracts may be limited and we may not be able to successfully reduce our exposure at all. In addition, PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies could magnify our currency exchange risks. See Item 11 “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Foreign Exchange Risk”. Warranty claims could substantially increase our costs and harm our reputation and brand, and materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We typically sell our main products with warranties against technical defects at terms covering 12-24 months and related accessories with warranties against technical defects at terms covering 6 months. Our product warranties require us to repair all malfunctions and, if necessary, replace defective components. We accrue liability for potential warranty claims at the time of sale. If we experience an increase in warranty claims or if our repair and replacement costs associated with warranty claims increase significantly, we may have to accrue a greater liability for potential warranty claims. Moreover, an increase in the frequency of warranty claims could substantially increase our costs, harm our reputation and brand, and materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our principal shareholders substantially control our corporate actions. Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that our shareholders may view as beneficial. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to five votes per share. As of April 27, 2012, three of our shareholders and their affiliated entities owned approximately 26.6% of our outstanding ordinary shares, representing approximately 63.4% of our voting power due to our dual-class ordinary share structure. Our co-chief executive officers, Mr. Xu Hang and Mr. Li Xiting, and our chief strategic officer, Mr. Cheng Minghe, through their respective affiliates, hold all of our Class B ordinary shares. These shareholders will continue to exert control over all matters subject to shareholder vote until the total number of Class B ordinary shares they own is collectively less than 20% of the total number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares. This concentration of voting power may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or other business combination, which could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your ADSs as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the market price of our ADSs. The interests of Mr. Xu, Mr. Li, and Mr. Cheng as officers and employees of our company may differ from their interests as shareholders of our company or from your interests as a shareholder. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares, including Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving you of an opportunity to sell your shares, including Class A ordinary shares represented by ADSs, at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. 20 Table of Contents For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our Class A ordinary shares. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors authorizes the issuance of preferred shares, the market price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our Class A ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. Certain actions require the approval of at least two-thirds of our board of directors present at the relevant board meeting which, among other things, would allow our non-independent directors to block a variety of actions or transactions, such as a merger, asset sale or other change of control, even if our independent directors unanimously voted in favor of such action, thereby further depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. In addition, our directors serve staggered terms of three years each, which means that shareholders can elect or remove only a limited number of our directors in any given year. The length of these terms could present an additional obstacle against the taking of action, such as a merger or other change of control, which could be in the interest of our shareholders. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. Depending upon the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either: (1) at least 50% of the value of our assets, based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year, is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income or (2) at least 75% of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. According to these technical rules, we would likely become a PFIC if the value of our outstanding ordinary shares and ADSs were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents. We believe we were not a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2011. Although we intend to conduct our business activities in a manner to reduce the risk of our classification as a PFIC in the future, we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets, and, because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market prices of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which are likely to fluctuate, there can no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC for 2012 or any future taxable year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. investor. We may be unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, and as a result we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, requires that we include a report from management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 20-F. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm and our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2011, and our independent registered public accounting firm reported on our internal controls over financial reporting, our management may conclude in the future that our internal controls are not effective. Our or our independent public accounting firm’s failure to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. 21 Table of Contents Our reporting obligations as a public company will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting processes, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the market price of our ADSs. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Changes in China’s economic, political and social conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We conduct a substantial portion of our business operations in China and derived over 40% of our 2011 revenues from sales in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected to a significant degree by economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage, but also to control, economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations applicable to us. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Our PRC operating subsidiaries are foreign-invested enterprises and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China as well as laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. These laws and regulations change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protections that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into. As a result, these uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with and obtain approvals from relevant PRC government authorities in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents in connection with our prior and any future offshore acquisitions. The SAFE regulation required registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies prior to the implementation of the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents 22 Table of Contents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies on November 1, 2005. In addition, the SAFE regulation required subsequent change registration for any change of shareholder structure of offshore companies held by PRC residents. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, including the change registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. We previously notified and urged our shareholders, and the shareholders of the offshore entities in our corporate group, who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications and filings, including the change registration, as required under this regulation for our initial public offering and our subsequent secondary offerings. However, different local SAFE offices may have different views on application and implementation of the SAFE regulations in practice, and it is unclear how these SAFE regulations and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. While we believe that these shareholders submitted applications with local SAFE offices, some of our shareholders may not comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by the regulation or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to obtain any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. We rely in significant part on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary to fund cash and financing requirements, and limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary Shenzhen Mindray for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. If Shenzhen Mindray incurs debt on its own behalf, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by Shenzhen Mindray and our other PRC subsidiaries only out of their respective retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries are required to set aside a portion of their respective net income each year to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2011, the amount of these restricted portions of our PRC subsidiaries was approximately $29.1 million. As a result of these PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries are restricted in their abilities to transfer a portion of their respective net reserves to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our working capital effectively. A significant portion of our revenues and a majority of our operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, Shenzhen Mindray and Nanjing Mindray may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions,” including payment of dividends to us, without the approval of SAFE. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies. Since a significant portion of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, any 23 Table of Contents existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside of China denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from, or registration with, SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. This could affect the ability of Shenzhen Mindray and Nanjing Mindray to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or the financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The China Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules became effective on January 1, 2008. The New EIT Law significantly curtails tax incentives granted to foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, under the previous tax law. Shenzhen Mindray and Beijing Mindray are FIEs. The New EIT Law, however, (i) reduces the top EIT rate from 33% to 25%, (ii) permits companies to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, subject to certain transitional phase-out rules, and (iii) introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. The New EIT Law and its implementing rules permit qualified “New and Hi-Tech Enterprises” to enjoy a reduced 15% EIT rate. The published qualification criteria are more difficult to meet than those prescribed by the old tax rules under which we had been granted preferential treatment. Nanjing Mindray had obtained a qualification certificate of New and Hi-Tech Enterprises status on December 13, 2010, with a valid period of three years starting from 2010 to 2012. Shenzhen Mindray had obtained a qualification certificate of New and Hi-Tech Enterprise status on December 16, 2008, with a valid period of three years starting from 2008 to 2010, and the status was subsequently renewed in October 2011 for another three years and will expire by the end of 2013. Beijing Mindray had obtained a qualification certificate of New and Hi-Tech Enterprises status on December 24, 2008, with a valid period of three years starting from 2008 to 2010, and the status was subsequently renewed in October 2011 for another three years and will expire by the end of 2013. However, the continued qualification for New and Hi-Tech Enterprise Status will still be subject to annual evaluation by the relevant government authority in China. In addition, Nanjing Mindray, Shenzhen Mindray and Beijing Mindray will need to apply for an additional three-year extension upon the expiration of the current qualification if they desire to continue to enjoy the 15% reduced rate. Shenzhen Mindray was also awarded “Nationwide Key Software Enterprise” status for the calendar years 2009 and 2010. Under the current tax policies for software and integrated circuit industries, the status will allow Shenzhen Mindray to enjoy a single unified 10% EIT rate applicable for the calendar years 2009 and 2010. Nationwide Key Software Enterprise status is granted on an annual basis by the relevant government authority in China. Shenzhen Mindray has applied for the “Nationwide Key Software Enterprise” status for year 2011 from the relevant government authorities. Shenzhen Mindray may not be granted this status for any future years. Under the phase-out rules of New EIT Law, enterprises established before the promulgation date of the New EIT Law and which were granted preferential EIT treatment under the then effective tax laws or regulations may continue to enjoy their preferential tax treatments until their expiration. Accordingly, Beijing Mindray, an enterprise established before the promulgation date of the New EIT Law, entitled to enjoy its preferential treatment under the phase-out rules, under which it will continue to enjoy the 50% reduction of the EIT for the taxable years of 2008 to 2010. The PRC tax policies, interpretations, and practices regarding the overlap, phase-out, and transition of preferential treatments is subject to continuous change and uncertainty and we cannot assure you that Shenzhen Mindray and Beijing Mindray will continue to qualify as New and Hi-Tech Enterprises under the New EIT Law, enjoy the preferential treatments under the phase-out rules, not encounter any challenges regarding past application of such treatments, or that the local tax authorities will not, in the future, change their position and revoke any of our past preferential tax treatments. The discontinuation of any of our preferential tax treatments could materially increase our tax obligations. 24 Table of Contents Another PRC subsidiary, Nanjing Mindray, was entitled to an EIT exemption for two years from 2008 to 2009 and is currently entitled to a 50% tax reduction from 2010 to 2012. Pursuant to a PRC tax policy intended to encourage the development of software and integrated circuit industries, our primary operating subsidiary in the PRC, Shenzhen Mindray, has been entitled to a refund of VAT paid at a rate of 14% of the sale value of self-developed software that is embedded in our products since 2001. In addition, this VAT refund policy is extended after its expiration at end of 2010 by the State Council on January 28, 2011 by promulgation of the Notice on Printing and Distribution of Several Policies to Further Stimulate the Development of Software and Integrate Circuit Industries, without a specific term for the extension however. The amount of VAT refunds included in revenue in 2010 and 2011 was $17.7 million and $21.5 million, respectively. While Shenzhen Mindray expects to continue to qualify for the VAT refund, we cannot assure you that Shenzhen Mindray will not encounter any challenges regarding such VAT refund from local tax authorities in the future. We typically receive government subsidies for the development of new high technology medical products and government incentives for making high technology investments in our local region on an irregular basis, and amounts received tend to fluctuate significantly. While we intend to continue applying for government subsidies and government incentives, we may not receive any in the future. Any increase in the EIT rate applicable to us or discontinuation or reduction of any of the preferential tax treatments or financial incentives currently enjoyed by our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entity could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be classified as a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. This classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. The New EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% EIT rate on their worldwide income. A tax circular issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009 regarding the standards used to classify certain Chinese-invested enterprises established outside of China as “resident enterprises” states that dividends paid by such “resident enterprises” and other income paid by such “resident enterprises” will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when received or recognized by non-PRC resident enterprise shareholders. This recent circular also subjects such “resident enterprises” to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. Under the implementation regulations to the New EIT Law, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and assets of an enterprise. In addition, the recent circular mentioned above specifies that certain Chinese-invested enterprises will be classified as “resident enterprises” if the following are located or resident in China: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision-making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of senior management or directors having voting rights. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise,” a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we will be subject to income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid to our Hong Kong company and ultimately to our Cayman Islands company from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempted income,” we cannot assure you that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC EIT purposes. Finally, a withholding tax of 10% for our non-PRC enterprise investors or an individual income tax of 20% for individual investors is imposed on dividends we pay to them and with respect to gains derived by 25 Table of Contents such investors from transferring our shares or ADSs. In addition to the uncertainty in how the new “resident enterprise” classification could apply, it is also possible that the rules may change in the future, possibly with retroactive effect. If we are required under the new New EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our foreign shareholders and ADS holders who are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our shares or ADSs under the circumstances mentioned above, the value of your investment in our shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. It is unclear whether, if we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise”, holders of our shares or ADSs would be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties or agreements entered into between China and other countries or areas. We may be unable to enjoy the favorable 5% treaty-based rate of income tax withholding for any dividends our PRC subsidiaries pay to us through our Hong Kong holding companies. Prior to January 1, 2008, dividends derived by foreign enterprises from business operations in China were not subject to the PRC enterprise income tax. However, such tax exemption ceased after January 1, 2008 with the effectiveness of the New EIT Law and a withholding tax rate of 10% will apply on such dividends (subject to reductions by the relevant tax treaties, if applicable). According to the Notice of the State Administration of Taxation on Summary Table of Treaty Rates for Dividends, or Circular 112, which was issued on January 29, 2008 and the Arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Evasion, or the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong), which became effective on December 8, 2006, dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiary may be subject to a withholding tax at a reduced rate of 5% if such Hong Kong entity owns at least 25% of the equity interest of the PRC company. In addition, the PRC State Administration of Taxation promulgated a tax notice on October 27, 2009, or Circular 601, which provides that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance, and a beneficial ownership analysis will be used based on a “substance-over-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant tax treaty benefits. It is unclear at this early stage whether Circular 601 applies to dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiaries. It is possible, however, that under Circular 601 our Hong Kong subsidiaries would not be considered to be the beneficial owners of any such dividends, and that such dividends would as a result be subject to income tax withholding at the rate of 10% rather than the favorable 5% rate applicable under the tax treaty between mainland China and Hong Kong. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit documentation related to their audit report included in this annual report may be located in the Peoples’ Republic of China. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board currently cannot inspect audit documentation located in China and, as such, you may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“the “PCAOB”) and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because we have substantial operations within the Peoples’ Republic of China and the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditors as it relates to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditor’s work related to our operations in China is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. This lack of PCAOB inspections of audit work performed in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audit work of any auditors that was performed in China including that performed by our auditors. As a result, investors may be deprived of the full benefits of PCAOB inspections. 26 Table of Contents The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of audit work performed in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures as compared to auditors in other jurisdictions that are subject to PCAOB inspections on all of their work. 