Item 1A. Risk Factors Before you invest in shares of our common stock, you should be aware of various risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider these risks, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, before you decide whether to make an investment in shares of our common stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Structure We are a relatively new company with limited operating history. We commenced material operations on February 27, 2007 and have conducted limited operations to date. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we may not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. Many entities, including public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, BDCs and insurance companies will compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make in middle-market and unlisted companies. Many of these competitors are substantially larger, have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do and offer a wider array of financial services. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships. Many competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC or the restrictions that the Code imposes on us as a regulated investment company. Some competitors may make loans with interest rates that are lower than the rates the Company wishes to offer. The Company cannot assure you that the competitive pressures it faces will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, the Company may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities 15 Table of Contents from time to time, and can offer no assurance that it will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with its investment objective. We have not yet identified any potential investments for our portfolio, although our competitors are likely to have identified and begun to pursue potential investments in which we may be interested. The Investment Adviser’s key personnel had no experience managing a BDC prior to our IPO and we cannot assure you that their past experience will be sufficient to manage our Company as a BDC. The 1940 Act imposes numerous complex constraints on the operations of BDCs. In order to maintain our status as a BDC, the 1940 Act prohibits us from acquiring any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, after giving effect to the acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. Qualifying assets generally may include securities of certain unlisted U.S. companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and high-quality debt instruments maturing one year or less from the time of investment. The failure to comply with these provisions in a timely manner could prevent us from qualifying as a BDC or could force us to pay unexpected taxes and penalties, which could be material. The lack of experience of the Investment Adviser’s senior professionals in managing a portfolio of assets under such regulatory constraints may hinder their ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objective. Key personnel of the Investment Adviser provide services to other clients, which could reduce the amount of time and effort they devote to us and thus negatively impact our performance. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to manage our business, which will depend, in turn, on the ability of the Investment Adviser to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result largely will be a function of the investment process and ability of the Investment Adviser, in its capacity as our Investment Adviser and administrator, to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us. The Company’s portfolio managers have substantial responsibilities to other clients of the Investment Adviser and its affiliates in addition to its activities on behalf of the Company. The portfolio managers and the investment professionals dedicated to our business may also be required to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time may distract them or slow our rate of investment. Any failure to manage our business effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. Key personnel of the Investment Adviser provide advisory services to other investment vehicles that may have common investment objectives with ours and may face conflicts of interest in allocating investments. The Investment Adviser or its officers and employees serve or may serve as officers, trustees, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business or of investment funds managed by the Investment Adviser or its affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may have obligations to investors in those entities or funds, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of the Company or its stockholders. As a result, the Investment Adviser will face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities to the Company and other entities or funds. In order to fulfill its fiduciary duties to each of its clients, the Investment Adviser will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities over time in a fair and equitable manner that may, subject to applicable regulatory constraints, involve pro rata co-investment by the Company and such other clients or may involve a rotation of opportunities among the Company and such other clients. Our success is dependent upon the members of the Investment Adviser’s senior professionals, and the loss of any of them could severely and detrimentally affect our operations. The Company’s ability to identify and invest in attractive opportunities is dependent upon the Investment Adviser. If one or more key individuals leaves the Investment Adviser, the Investment Adviser may not be able to hire qualified replacements or may require an extended time to do so. This situation could prevent the Company from achieving its investment objective. 16 Table of Contents Because we use leverage, you will be exposed to additional risks, including the risk that our use of leverage can magnify the effect of any losses we incur. We seek to enhance our total returns through the use of leverage, which may include the issuance of shares of preferred stock, commercial paper or notes and other borrowings. At December 31, 2007, we had borrowings outstanding of $142.0 million under a credit facility. Although our use of leverage may create an opportunity for increased returns for our Shares, it also results in additional risks and can magnify the effect of any losses and thus could negatively impact our business and results of operation. If we do incur leverage, a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our Shares than if we did not use leverage. If the income and gains from the investments purchased with leverage, net of increased expenses associated with such leverage, do not cover the cost of such leverage, the return to holders of our Shares will be less than if leverage had not been used. There is no assurance that our use of leverage, if any, will be successful. Leverage involves other risks and special considerations for common stockholders including, but not limited to, the following: • We would not be permitted to pay distributions on the Shares if dividends on the preferred stock and/or interest on borrowings have not been paid or set aside for payment. • Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to issue debt or preferred stock or other senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines below that level we will be prohibited from paying distributions on the Shares. If that happens, in order to maintain our tax qualification we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and repay a portion of our leverage at a time when such sales and/or repayments may be disadvantageous. • It is likely that any debt we incur will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants that may restrict our operating flexibility or our ability to pay distributions on Shares in certain instances. • Any debt that we issue or incur may be secured by a lien on our assets, which, in the event of a default under the instrument governing the debt, would subject such collateral to liquidation by the lenders at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. • We and, indirectly, our stockholders will bear the cost of issuing and servicing our leverage. • Any leverage instruments that we issue in the future will have rights, preferences and privileges over our income and against our assets in liquidation that are more favorable than those of our Shares. • There will likely be greater volatility of net asset value and market price of our Shares than for a comparable company that does not use leverage. • When we use leverage, the base management fee payable to our Investment Adviser will be higher than if we did not use leverage. • We may be subject to certain restrictions on investments imposed by guidelines of one or more rating agencies, which may issue ratings for the leverage instruments issued by us. • The 1940 Act provides certain rights and protections for preferred stockholders which may adversely affect the interests of our common stockholders, including rights that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control to the detriment of the holders of our Shares. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect the investments we may make and our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. Our business may benefit from raising capital in addition to the proceeds of our initial public offering. We may acquire additional capital through the use of leverage and issuance of additional Shares. We may use leverage up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. We generally will not be able to issue and sell our Shares at a price below net asset value per Share. We may, however, sell our Shares, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our Shares, at prices below the current net asset value of the Shares if our Board determines that such sale is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, except in connection with rights offerings or with stockholder approval, the price at which our securities are to be issued and 17 Table of Contents sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our Board, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any underwriting commission or discount). We may also make rights offerings to our stockholders at prices per Share less than the net asset value per Share, subject to applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more Shares or issuing leverage instruments convertible into, or exchangeable for, our Shares, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease and such stockholders may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future, on favorable terms or at all. If certain of our investments are deemed not to be qualifying assets, we could be precluded from investing in the manner described in our prospectus, or deemed to be in violation of the 1940 Act, in which case we may not qualify to be treated as a BDC. In order to maintain our status as a BDC, we must not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. There is a risk that certain investments that we intend to make would not be deemed to be qualifying assets. For example, qualifying assets include securities of a listed or unlisted U.S. issuer that is not an investment company or a financial company (that is, a company that would be an investment company except for one or more of the exclusions from the definition of investment company in Section 3(c) of the 1940 Act) if the issuer is in bankruptcy and subject to reorganization or if the issuer, immediately prior to the Company’s purchase, were unable to meet its obligations as they came due without material assistance other than conventional lending or financing arrangements and if the purchase is made in transactions not involving a public offering from the issuer, someone who has been an affiliated person of the issuer within the prior 13 months or from any person in transactions incident thereto. If certain of our investments are deemed to not be qualifying assets under such definition we could be precluded from investing in the manner described in this annual report or deemed to be in violation of the 1940 Act. Certain of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith pursuant to policies and procedures approved by our Board and, as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. A large percentage of the Company’s portfolio investments may be in the form of securities that are not publicly-traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly-traded may not be readily determinable. The Company values these securities at least quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith pursuant to the policies and procedures approved by the Board. However, because fair valuations, and particularly fair valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and are often based to a large extent on estimates, comparisons and qualitative evaluations of private information, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. These factors could make it more difficult for investors to value accurately the Company’s securities and could lead to under-valuation or over-valuation of the Shares. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We make investments in unlisted companies. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than listed securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded such investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that the Investment Adviser has material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. 18 Table of Contents We pay the Investment Adviser a base management fee based on our Managed Assets, which may create an incentive for the Investment Adviser to cause us to incur more leverage than is prudent in order to maximize its compensation. We pay the Investment Adviser a quarterly base management fee based on the value of our Managed Assets. Accordingly, the Investment Adviser will have an economic incentive to increase our leverage. If our leverage is increased, we will be exposed to increased risk of loss, bear the increased cost of issuing and servicing such senior indebtedness, and will be subject to any additional covenant restrictions imposed on us in an indenture or other instrument or by the applicable lender. See “Risks Related to Our Business and Structure.” We pay the Investment Adviser incentive compensation based on our net investment income and realized capital gains, which may create an incentive for the Investment Adviser to cause us to incur more leverage than is prudent in order to maximize its compensation. We pay the Investment Adviser incentive compensation based on our net investment income and realized capital gains, which may create an incentive for the Investment Adviser to cause us to incur more leverage than is prudent in order to maximize its compensation. The incentive fee payable to the Investment Adviser may create an incentive for the Investment Adviser to make investments that are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable to the Investment Adviser is determined, which is calculated as a percentage of the return on net assets, may encourage the Investment Adviser to use leverage to increase the return on the Company’s investments. If the Investment Adviser acquires poorly-performing assets with such leverage, the loss to holders of the Shares could be substantial. Moreover, if our leverage is increased, we will be exposed to increased risk of loss, bear the increased cost of issuing and servicing such senior indebtedness or preferred stock, and will be subject to any additional covenant restrictions imposed on us in an indenture or other instrument or by the applicable lender. See “Risks Related to Our Business and Structure.” We pay the Investment Adviser a base management fee based on our Managed Assets, which may create an incentive for the Investment Adviser to cause us to incur more leverage than is prudent in order to maximize its compensation. Risks Related to Our Investments Investments in middle-market and unlisted companies present certain challenges, including the lack of available information about such companies, a dependence on the talents and efforts of only a few key portfolio company personnel and a greater vulnerability to economic downturns. Investments in middle-market and unlisted companies involve a number of significant risks, including the following: • Such companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral. • Such companies typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger or listed businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. • Such companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the portfolio company and, in turn, on us. • Such companies generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. • Such companies may cease to be treated as unlisted companies for purposes of the regulatory restrictions applicable to us, in which case we might not be able to invest additional amounts in them. 19 Table of Contents Little public information exists about these companies. The greater difficulty in making a fully-informed investment decision raises the risk of misjudging the credit quality of the company and we may lose money on our investments. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase funding costs, limit access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may need to incur additional expenses to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured its interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided significant managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of its claim to that of other creditors. Investments in lower credit quality obligations present certain challenges, including higher risks of default, increased adverse effects caused by economic downturns and lack of liquidity. Most of the Company’s debt investments are likely to be in lower grade obligations. The lower grade investments in which the Company invests may be rated below investment grade by one or more nationally-recognized statistical rating agencies at the time of investment or may be unrated but determined by the Investment Adviser to be of comparable quality. Debt securities rated below investment grade are commonly referred to as “junk bonds” and are considered speculative with respect to the issuer’s capacity to pay interest and repay principal. Investment in lower grade investments involves substantial risk of loss. Lower grade securities or comparable unrated securities are considered predominantly speculative with respect to the issuer’s ability to pay interest and principal and are susceptible to default or decline in market value due to adverse economic and business developments. The market values for lower grade debt tend to be very volatile, and are less liquid than investment grade securities. For these reasons, your investment in the Company is subject to the following specific risks: • increased price sensitivity to a deteriorating economic environment; • greater risk of loss due to default or declining credit quality; • adverse company specific events are more likely to render the issuer unable to make interest and/or principal payments; and • if a negative perception of the lower grade debt market develops, the price and liquidity of lower grade securities may be depressed. This negative perception could last for a significant period of time. Adverse changes in economic conditions are more likely to lead to a weakened capacity of a lower grade issuer to make principal payments and interest payments than an investment grade issuer. The principal amount of lower grade securities outstanding has proliferated in the past decade as an increasing number of issuers have used lower grade securities for corporate financing. An economic downturn could severely affect the ability of highly leveraged issuers to service their debt obligations or to repay their obligations upon maturity. Similarly, downturns in profitability in specific industries could adversely affect the ability of lower grade issuers in that industry to meet their obligations. The market values of lower grade debt tend to reflect individual developments of the issuer to a greater extent than do higher quality investments, which react primarily to fluctuations in the general level of 20 Table of Contents interest rates. Factors having an adverse impact on the market value of lower grade debt may have an adverse effect on the Company’s net asset value and the market value of the Shares. In addition, the Company may incur additional expenses to the extent it is required to seek recovery upon a default in payment of principal of or interest on its portfolio holdings. In certain circumstances, the Company may be required to foreclose on an issuer’s assets and take possession of its property or operations. In such circumstances, the Company would incur additional costs in disposing of such assets and potential liabilities from operating any business acquired. The secondary market for lower grade debt may not be as liquid as the secondary market for more highly rated debt, a factor that may have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to dispose of a particular instrument. There are fewer dealers in the market for lower grade securities than investment grade obligations. The prices quoted by different dealers may vary significantly and the spread between the bid and asked price is generally much larger than higher quality instruments. Under adverse market or economic conditions, the secondary market for lower grade debt could contract further, independent of any specific adverse changes in the condition of a particular issuer, and these instruments may become highly illiquid. As a result, the Company could find it more difficult to sell these instruments or may be able to sell the securities only at prices lower than if such instruments were widely traded. Prices realized upon the sale of such lower rated or unrated securities, under these circumstances, may be less than the prices used in calculating the Company’s net asset value. Since investors generally perceive that there are greater risks associated with lower-grade debt of the type in which the Company may invest a portion of its assets, the yields and prices of such debt may tend to fluctuate more than those for higher rated instruments. In the lower quality segments of the fixed income markets, changes in perceptions of issuers’ creditworthiness tend to occur more frequently and in a more pronounced manner than do changes in higher quality segments of the income securities market, resulting in greater yield and price volatility. Our investments in debt securities of distressed or bankrupt companies may subject us to certain risks, including lack of income, extraordinary expenses, uncertainty with respect to satisfaction of debt, lower-than-expected investment values or income potentials and resale restrictions. At times, distressed debt obligations may not produce income and may require the Company to bear certain extraordinary expenses (including legal, accounting, valuation and transaction expenses) in order to protect and recover its investment. Therefore, to the extent the Company invests in distressed debt, the Company’s ability to achieve current income for its stockholders may be diminished. The Company also will be subject to significant uncertainty as to when and in what manner and for what value the distressed debt the Company invests in will eventually be satisfied (e.g., through a liquidation of the obligor’s assets, an exchange offer or plan of reorganization involving the distressed debt securities or a payment of some amount in satisfaction of the obligation). In addition, even if an exchange offer is made or plan of reorganization is adopted with respect to distressed debt held by the Company, there can be no assurance that the securities or other assets received by the Company in connection with such exchange offer or plan of reorganization will not have a lower value or income potential than may have been anticipated when the investment was made. Moreover, any securities received by the Company upon completion of an exchange offer or plan of reorganization may be restricted as to resale. As a result of the Company’s participation in negotiations with respect to any exchange offer or plan of reorganization with respect to an issuer of distressed debt, the Company may be restricted from disposing of such securities. Investments in obligations of distressed or bankrupt issuers present certain challenges inherent in the bankruptcy process or in participation on creditor committees. The Company is authorized to invest in the securities and other obligations of distressed and bankrupt issuers, including debt obligations that are in covenant or payment default. There is no limit on the amount of the Company’s portfolio that can be invested in distressed or bankrupt issuers, and the Company may invest for purposes of control. Such investments generally trade significantly below par and are considered speculative. The repayment of defaulted obligations is subject to significant uncertainties. Defaulted obligations might be repaid only after lengthy workout or bankruptcy proceedings, during which the issuer might not make any interest or other payments. Typically such workout or bankruptcy proceedings result in only partial recovery of cash payments or an exchange of the defaulted obligation for other debt or equity securities of the issuer or its affiliates, which may in turn be illiquid or speculative. 21 Table of Contents There are a number of significant risks inherent in the bankruptcy process. First, many events in a bankruptcy are the product of contested matters and adversary proceedings and are beyond the control of the creditors. While creditors are generally given an opportunity to object to significant actions, there can be no assurance that a bankruptcy court in the exercise of its broad powers would not approve actions that would be contrary to the interests of the Company. Second, the effect of a bankruptcy filing on an issuer may adversely and permanently affect the issuer. The issuer may lose its market position and key employees and otherwise become incapable of restoring itself as a viable entity. If for this or any other reason the proceeding is converted to a liquidation, the value of the issuer may not equal the liquidation value that was believed to exist at the time of the investment. Third, the duration of a bankruptcy proceeding is difficult to predict. A creditor’s return on investment can be adversely affected by delays while the plan of reorganization is being negotiated, approved by the creditors and confirmed by the bankruptcy court and until it ultimately becomes effective. Fourth, the administrative costs in connection with a bankruptcy proceeding are frequently high and would be paid out of the debtor’s estate prior to any return to creditors. For example, if a proceeding involves protracted or difficult litigation, or turns into a liquidation, substantial assets may be devoted to administrative costs. Fifth, bankruptcy law permits the classification of “substantially similar” claims in determining the classification of claims in a reorganization. Because the standard for classification is vague, there exists the risk that the Company’s influence with respect to the class of securities or other obligations it owns can be lost by increases in the number and amount of claims in that class or by different classification and treatment. Sixth, in the early stages of the bankruptcy process it is often difficult to estimate the extent of, or even to identify, any contingent claims that might be made. Seventh, especially in the case of investments made prior to the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, creditors can lose their ranking and priority if they exercise “domination and control” over a debtor and other creditors can demonstrate that they have been harmed by such actions. Eighth, certain claims that have priority by law (for example, claims for taxes) may be substantial. In any investment involving distressed debt obligations, there exists the risk that the transaction involving such debt obligations will be unsuccessful, take considerable time or will result in a distribution of cash or a new security or obligation in exchange for the distressed debt obligations, the value of which may be less than the Company’s purchase price of such debt obligations. Furthermore, if an anticipated transaction does not occur, the Company may be required to sell its investment at a loss. Given the substantial uncertainties concerning transactions involving distressed debt obligations in which the Company invests, there is a potential risk of loss by the Company of its entire investment in any particular investment. Investments in companies operating in workout modes or under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code are also, in certain circumstances, subject to certain additional liabilities that may exceed the value of our original investment in a company. For example, under certain circumstances, creditors who have inappropriately exercised control over the management and policies of a debtor may have their claims subordinated or disallowed or may be found liable for damages suffered by parties as a result of such actions. The Investment Adviser’s active management style may present a greater risk in this area than would a more passive approach. In addition, under certain circumstances, payments to us and distributions by us or payments on the debt may be reclaimed if any such payment is later determined to have been a fraudulent conveyance or a preferential payment. The Investment Adviser on our behalf may participate on committees formed by creditors to negotiate with the management of financially-troubled companies that may or may not be in bankruptcy or may negotiate directly with debtors with respect to restructuring issues. If we do choose to join a committee, we would likely be only one of many participants, all of whom would be interested in obtaining an outcome that is in their individual best interests. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining results most favorable to it in such proceedings, although we may incur significant legal and other expenses in attempting to do so. As a result of participation by us on such committees, we may be deemed to have duties to other creditors represented by the committees, which might thereby expose us to liability to such other creditors who disagree with our actions. Participation by us on such committees may cause us to be subject to certain restrictions on our ability to trade in a particular investment and may also make us an “insider” or an “underwriter” for purposes of federal securities laws. Either circumstance will restrict our ability to trade in or acquire additional positions in a particular investment when we might otherwise desire to do so. 22 Table of Contents Investments in debt obligations pose certain risks in U.S. courts with respect to insolvency considerations. Various laws enacted for the protection of creditors may apply to the debt obligations held by the Company. The information in this paragraph is applicable with respect to U.S. issuers subject to U.S. bankruptcy laws. Insolvency considerations may differ with respect to other issuers. If a court in a lawsuit brought by an unpaid creditor or representative of creditors of an issuer of a debt obligation, such as a trustee in bankruptcy, were to find that the issuer did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for incurring the indebtedness constituting the debt obligation and, after giving effect to such indebtedness, the issuer (i) was insolvent, (ii) was engaged in a business for which the remaining assets of such issuer constituted unreasonably small capital or (iii) intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature, such court could determine to invalidate, in whole or in part, such indebtedness as a fraudulent conveyance, to subordinate such indebtedness to existing or future creditors of such issuer, or to recover amounts previously paid by such issuer in satisfaction of such indebtedness. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing will vary. Generally, an issuer would be considered insolvent at a particular time if the sum of its debts were then greater than all of its property at a fair valuation, or if the present fair saleable value of its assets was then less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liabilities on its existing debts as they became absolute and matured. There can be no assurance as to what standard a court would apply in order to determine whether the issuer was “insolvent” after giving effect to the incurrence of the indebtedness constituting the debt obligation or that, regardless of the method of valuation, a court would not determine that the issuer was “insolvent” upon giving effect to such incurrence. In addition, in the event of the insolvency of an issuer of a debt obligation, payments made on such debt obligation could be subject to avoidance as a “preference” if made within a certain period of time (which may be as long as one year) before insolvency. Similarly, a court might apply the doctrine of equitable subordination to subordinate the claim of a lending institution against an issuer, to claims of other creditors of the borrower, when the lending institution, another investor, or any of their transferees, is found to have engaged in unfair, inequitable, or fraudulent conduct. In general, if payments on a debt obligation are avoidable, whether as fraudulent conveyances or preferences, such payments can be recaptured either from the initial recipient (such as the Company) or from subsequent transferees of such payments (such as the investors in the Company). To the extent that any such payments are recaptured from the Company, the resulting loss will be borne by the investors. However, a court in a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding would be able to direct the recapture of any such payment from such a recipient or transferee only to the extent that such court has jurisdiction over such recipient or transferee or its assets. Moreover, it is likely that avoidable payments could not be recaptured directly from any such recipient or transferee that has given value in exchange for its investment, in good faith and without knowledge that the payments were avoidable. Although the Investment Adviser will seek to avoid conduct that would form the basis for a successful cause of action based upon fraudulent conveyance, preference or equitable subordination, these determinations are made in hindsight, and in any event, there can be no assurance as to whether any lending institution or other investor from which the Company acquired the debt obligations engaged in any such conduct (or any other conduct that would subject the debt obligations and the issuer to insolvency laws) and, if it did, as to whether such creditor claims could be asserted in a U.S. court (or in the courts of any other country) against the Company. Our portfolio companies may incur additional debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. Our portfolio companies usually will have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, debt securities in which we will often invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligations to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. In addition, we may not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of 23 Table of Contents such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. Investments in senior loans, second lien loans, other secured loans and unsecured loans present certain challenges, such as restrictive covenants, low trading volume and risks related to rank. Senior Loans. Bank loans are typically at the most senior level of the capital structure, and are sometimes secured by specific collateral, including, but not limited to, trademarks, patents, accounts receivable, inventory, equipment, buildings, real estate, franchises and common and preferred stock of the obligor or its affiliates. A portion of the Company’s investments may consist of loans and participations therein originated by banks and other financial institutions, typically referred to as “bank loans.” The Company’s investments may include loans of a type generally incurred by borrowers in connection with highly leveraged transactions, often to finance internal growth, acquisitions, mergers or stock purchases, or for other reasons. As a result of the additional debt incurred by the borrower in the course of the transaction, the borrower’s creditworthiness is often judged by the rating agencies to be below investment grade. Such loans are typically private corporate loans which are negotiated by one or more commercial banks or financial institutions and syndicated among a group of commercial banks and financial institutions. In order to induce the lenders to extend credit and to offer a favorable interest rate, the borrower often provides the lenders with extensive information about its business which is not generally available to the public. Bank loans often contain restrictive covenants designed to limit the activities of the borrower in an effort to protect the right of lenders to receive timely payments of principal and interest. Such covenants may include restrictions on distribution payments, specific mandatory minimum financial ratios, limits on total debt and other financial tests. Bank loans usually have shorter terms than subordinated obligations and may require mandatory prepayments from excess cash flow, asset dispositions and offerings of debt and/or equity securities. The bank loans and other debt obligations to be acquired by the Company are likely to be below investment grade. The Company may acquire interests in bank loans and other debt obligations either directly (by way of sale or assignment) or indirectly (by way of participation). The purchaser of an assignment typically succeeds to all the rights and obligations of the assigning institution and becomes a lender under the credit agreement with respect to the debt obligation; however, its rights can be more restricted than those of the assigning institution, and in any event, the Company may not be able unilaterally to enforce all rights and remedies under the loan and any associated collateral. A participation interest in a portion of a debt obligation typically results in a contractual relationship only with the institution participating out the interest, not with the borrower. In purchasing participations, the Company generally will have no right to enforce compliance by the borrower with the terms of the loan agreement or any rights of setoff against the borrower, and the Company may not directly benefit from the collateral supporting the debt obligation in which it has purchased the participation. As a result, the Company will be exposed to the credit risk of both the borrower and the institution selling the participation. Purchasers of bank loans are predominantly commercial banks, investment funds and investment banks. As secondary market trading volumes increase, new bank loans frequently adopt standardized documentation to facilitate loan trading which should improve market liquidity. There can be no assurance, however, that future levels of supply and demand in bank loan trading will provide an adequate degree of liquidity or that the current level of liquidity will continue. Because of the provision to holders of such loans of confidential information relating to the borrower, the unique and customized nature of the loan agreement, the limited universe of eligible purchasers and the private syndication of the loan, bank loans are not as easily purchased or sold as a publicly-traded security, and historically the trading volume in the bank loan market has been small relative to the high-yield debt market. Second Lien Loans. Second lien loans are subject to the same risks associated with investment in senior loans and non-investment grade securities. However, second lien loans are second in right of payment to senior loans and therefore are subject to additional risk that the cash flow of the borrower and any property securing the loan may be insufficient to meet scheduled payments after giving effect to the senior secured obligations of the borrower. Second lien loans are expected to have greater price volatility than senior loans and may be less liquid. There is also a possibility that originators will not be able to sell participations in second lien loans, which would create greater credit risk exposure. 24 Table of Contents Other Secured Loans. Secured loans other than senior loans and second lien loans are subject to the same risks associated with investment in senior loans, second lien loans and non-investment grade securities. However, such loans may rank lower in right of payment than any outstanding senior loans and second lien loans of the borrower and therefore are subject to additional risk that the cash flow of the borrower and any property securing the loan may be insufficient to meet scheduled payments after giving effect to the higher-ranking secured obligations of the borrower. Lower-ranking secured loans are expected to have greater price volatility than senior loans and second lien loans and may be less liquid. There is also a possibility that originators will not be able to sell participations in lower-ranking secured loans, which would create greater credit risk exposure. Unsecured Loans. Unsecured loans are subject to the same risks associated with investment in senior loans, second lien loans, other secured loans and non-investment grade securities. However, because unsecured loans have lower priority in right of payment to any higher ranking obligations of the borrower and are not backed by a security interest in any specific collateral, they are subject to additional risk that the cash flow of the borrower and available assets may be insufficient to meet scheduled payments after giving effect to any higher ranking obligations of the borrower. Unsecured loans are expected to have greater price volatility than senior loans, second lien loans and other secured loans and may be less liquid. There is also a possibility that originators will not be able to sell participations in unsecured loans, which would create greater credit risk exposure. The debt securities in which we invest are subject to prepayment risk. If interest rates fall, the principal on debt held by the Company may be able to be paid earlier than expected. If this happens, the proceeds from a prepaid security may be reinvested by the Company in securities bearing lower interest rates, resulting in a possible decline in the Company’s income and distributions to stockholders. The Company may invest in pools of mortgages or other assets issued or guaranteed by private issuers or U.S. government agencies and instrumentalities. Mortgage-related securities are especially sensitive to prepayment risk because borrowers often refinance their mortgages when interest rates drop. The improved financial performance of an issuer can lead an issuer to prepay securities. Inflation may cause the real value of our investments to decline. Inflation risk results from the variation in the value of cash flows from a security due to inflation, as measured in terms of purchasing power. For example, if the Company purchases a bond in which it can realize a coupon rate of 5%, but the rate of inflation increases from 2% to 6%, then the purchasing power of the cash flow has declined. For all but adjustable bonds or floating rate bonds, the Company is exposed to inflation risk because the interest rate the issuer promises to make is fixed for the life of the security. To the extent that interest rates reflect the expected inflation rate, floating rate bonds have a lower level of inflation risk. The Company’s reinvestment of its cash flow subjects it to risks posed by fluctuating interest rates. The Company reinvests the cash flows received from a security. The additional income from such reinvestment, sometimes called interest-on-interest, is reliant on the prevailing interest rate levels at the time of reinvestment. There is a risk that the interest rate at which interim cash flows can be reinvested will fall. Reinvestment risk is greater for longer holding periods and for securities with large, early cash flows such as high-coupon bonds. Reinvestment risk also applies generally to the reinvestment of the proceeds the Company receives upon the maturity or sale of a portfolio security. Issuers’ rights to “call” all or part of certain securities subject the Company to timing risks. Many agency, corporate and municipal bonds, and most mortgage-backed securities, contain a provision that allows the issuer to “call” all or part of the issue before the bond’s maturity date, often after 5 or 10 years. The issuer usually retains the right to refinance the bond in the future if market interest rates decline below the coupon rate. There are three disadvantages to the call provision. First, the cash flow pattern of a callable bond is not known with certainty. Second, because an issuer is more likely to call the bonds when interest rates have dropped, the Company is exposed to reinvestment rate risk, i.e., the Company may have to reinvest at lower interest rates the proceeds received when the bond is called. Finally, the capital appreciation potential of a bond will be reduced because the 25 Table of Contents price of a callable bond may not rise much above the price at which the issuer may call the bond. The improved financial performance of an issuer can lead an issuer to “call” securities. Common stock investments may be volatile and may fluctuate substantially. The Company has exposure to common stocks. Although common stocks have historically generated higher average total returns than fixed-income securities over the long term, common stocks also have experienced significantly more volatility in those returns. The equity securities acquired by the Company may fail to appreciate and may decline in value or become worthless. Distributions on common stock investments are not guaranteed and are declared at the discretion of the issuer’s board of directors. Distributions on common stock are not fixed, but are declared at the discretion of an issuer’s board of directors. There is no guarantee that the issuers of the common stocks in which the Company invests will declare distributions in the future or that, if declared, they will remain at current levels or increase over time. Investments in small and mid-cap company securities pose risks due to their relatively smaller size, including low volatility and trading volumes. We invest in companies with small or medium capitalizations. Securities issued by smaller and medium companies can be more volatile than, and perform differently from, larger company securities. There may be less trading in a smaller or medium company’s securities, which means that buy and sell transactions in those securities could have a larger impact on the security’s price than is the case with larger company securities. Smaller and medium companies may have fewer business lines; changes in any one line of business, therefore, may have a greater impact on a smaller or medium company’s security price than is the case for a larger company. In addition, smaller or medium company securities may not be well known to the investing public. Investments in preferred stocks present certain challenges, including deferred distributions, subordination to other debt instruments, lack of liquidity and limited voting rights. To the extent the Company invests in preferred securities, there are special risks associated with investing in preferred securities, including: Deferral. Preferred securities may include provisions that permit the issuer, at its discretion, to defer distributions for a stated period without any adverse consequences to the issuer. If the Company owns a preferred security that is deferring its distributions, the Company may be required to report income for tax purposes although it has not yet received such income. Subordination. Preferred securities are subordinated to bonds and other debt instruments in a company’s capital structure in terms of priority to corporate income and liquidation payments, and therefore will be subject to greater credit risk than more senior debt instruments. Liquidity. Preferred securities may be substantially less liquid than many other securities, such as common stocks or U.S. government securities. Limited Voting Rights. Generally, preferred security holders (such as the Company) have no voting rights with respect to the issuing company unless preferred dividends have been in arrears for a specified number of periods, at which time the preferred security holders may elect a number of directors to the issuer’s board. Generally, once all the arrearages have been paid, the preferred security holders no longer have voting rights. Lending of the Company’s securities may lead to the risk of lost opportunities due to the securities’ unavailability. The Company may lend its portfolio securities to banks or dealers that meet the creditworthiness standards established by the Board. Securities lending is subject to the risk that loaned securities may not be available to the Company on a timely basis and the Company may, therefore, lose the opportunity to sell the securities at a desirable 26 Table of Contents price. Any loss in the market price of securities loaned by the Company that occurs during the term of the loan would be borne by the Company and would adversely affect the Company’s performance. Also, there may be delays in recovery, or no recovery, of securities loaned or even a loss of rights in the collateral should the borrower of the securities fail financially while the loan is outstanding. These risks may be greater for non-U.S. securities. Our use of certain instruments, such as options, structured finance securities and derivatives, may result in losses greater than if they had not been used. We may invest in various derivative securities which, to the extent they are not qualifying assets, will be limited to the 30% of our assets that we may use for opportunistic investments. Risks Associated with Options. There are several risks associated with transactions in options on securities, such as, exchange-listed, over-the-counter and index options. For example, there are significant differences between the securities and options markets that could result in an imperfect correlation between these markets, causing a given transaction not to achieve its objectives. A decision as to whether, when and how to use options involves the exercise of skill and judgment, and even a well-conceived transaction may be unsuccessful to some degree because of market behavior or unexpected events. As the writer of a covered call option, the Company foregoes, during the option’s life, the opportunity to profit from increases in the market value of the security covering the call option above the sum of the premium and the strike price of the call, but has retained the risk of loss should the price of the underlying security decline. As the Company writes covered calls over more of its portfolio, its ability to benefit from capital appreciation becomes more limited. The writer of an option has no control over the time when it may be required to fulfill its obligation as a writer of the option. Once an option writer has received an exercise notice, it cannot effect a closing purchase transaction in order to terminate its obligation under the option and must deliver the underlying security at the exercise price. When the Company writes covered put options, it bears the risk of loss if the value of the underlying stock declines below the exercise price minus the put premium. If the option is exercised, the Company could incur a loss if it is required to purchase the stock underlying the put option at a price greater than the market price of the stock at the time of exercise plus the put premium the Company received when it wrote the option. While the Company’s potential gain in writing a covered put option is limited to distributions earned on the liquid assets securing the put option plus the premium received from the purchaser of the put option, the Company risks a loss equal to the entire exercise price of the option minus the put premium. Risks of Investing in Structured Finance Securities. A portion of the Company’s investments may consist of equipment trust certificates, collateralized mortgage obligations, collateralized bond obligations, collateralized loan obligations or similar instruments. Structured finance securities may present risks similar to those of the other types of debt obligations in which the Company may invest and, in fact, such risks may be of greater significance in the case of structured finance securities. Moreover, investing in structured finance securities may entail a variety of unique risks. Among other risks, structured finance securities may be subject to prepayment risk. In addition, the performance of a structured finance security will be affected by a variety of factors, including its priority in the capital structure of the issuer thereof, and the availability of any credit enhancement, the level and timing of payments and recoveries on and the characteristics of the underlying receivables, loans or other assets that are being securitized, remoteness of those assets from the originator or transferor, the adequacy of and ability to realize upon any related collateral and the capability of the servicer of the securitized assets. Asset-Backed Securities Risk. Payment of interest and repayment of principal on asset-backed securities may be largely dependent upon the cash flows generated by the assets backing the securities and, in certain cases, supported by letters of credit, surety bonds or other credit enhancements. Asset-backed security values may also be affected by the creditworthiness of the servicing agent for the pool, the originator of the loans or receivables or the entities providing the credit enhancement. In addition, the underlying assets are subject to prepayments that shorten the securities’ weighted average maturity and may lower their return. Mortgage-Backed Securities Risk. A mortgage-backed security, which represents an interest in a pool of assets such as mortgage loans, will mature when all the mortgages in the pool mature or are prepaid. Therefore, 27 Table of Contents mortgage-backed securities do not have a fixed maturity, and their expected maturities may vary when interest rates rise or fall. When interest rates fall, homeowners are more likely to prepay their mortgage loans. An increased rate of prepayments on the Company’s mortgage-backed securities will result in an unforeseen loss of interest income to the Company as the Company may be required to reinvest assets at a lower interest rate. Because prepayments increase when interest rates fall, the price of mortgage-backed securities does not increase as much as other fixed income securities when interest rates fall. When interest rates rise, homeowners are less likely to prepay their mortgage loans. A decreased rate of prepayments lengthens the expected maturity of a mortgage-backed security. Therefore, the prices of mortgage-backed securities may decrease more than prices of other fixed income securities when interest rates rise. Derivative Risk. Derivative transactions in which the Company may engage for hedging and speculative purposes or to enhance total return, including engaging in transactions such as options, futures, swaps, foreign currency transactions, forward foreign currency contracts, currency swaps or options on currency futures and other derivatives transactions (collectively, “Derivative Transactions”), also involve certain risks and special considerations. Derivative Transactions have risks, including the imperfect correlation between the value of such instruments and the underlying assets, the possible default of the other party to the transaction or illiquidity of the derivative instruments. Furthermore, the ability to successfully use Derivative Transactions depends on the Investment Adviser’s ability to predict pertinent market movements, which cannot be assured. Thus, the use of Derivative Transactions may result in losses greater than if they had not been used, may require the Company to sell or purchase portfolio securities at inopportune times or for prices other than current market values, may limit the amount of appreciation the Company can realize on an investment or may cause the Company to hold a security that it might otherwise sell. The use of foreign currency transactions can result in the Company’s incurring losses as a result of the imposition of exchange controls, suspension of settlements or the inability of the Company to deliver or receive a specified currency. Additionally, amounts paid by the Company as premiums and cash or other assets held in margin accounts with respect to Derivative Transactions are not otherwise available to the Company for investment purposes. Unless and until the Company is fully qualified to utilize the regulated derivatives markets, the use of Derivative Transactions will generally be confined to private transactions with legally-authorized counterparties. To the extent that the Company purchases options pursuant to a hedging strategy, the Company will be subject to the following additional risks. If a put or call option purchased by the Company is not sold when it has remaining value, and if the market price of the underlying security remains equal to or greater than the exercise price (in the case of a put), or remains less than or equal to the exercise price (in the case of a call), the Company will lose its entire investment in the option. Also, where a put or call option on a particular security is purchased to hedge against price movements in a related security, the price of the put or call option may move more or less than the price of the related security. If restrictions on exercise were imposed, the Company might be unable to exercise an option it had purchased. If the Company were unable to close out an option that it had purchased on a security, it would have to exercise the option in order to realize any profit or the option may expire worthless. Counterparty Risk. We will be subject to credit risk with respect to the counterparties to the derivative contracts purchased or sold by us. If a counterparty becomes bankrupt, or otherwise fails to perform its obligations under a derivative contract due to financial difficulties, we may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery under the derivative contract in a bankruptcy or other reorganization proceeding. We may obtain only a limited recovery or may obtain no recovery in such circumstances. Synthetic Securities. In addition to credit risks associated with holding non-investment grade loans and high-yield debt securities, with respect to synthetic securities the Company will usually have a contractual relationship only with the counterparty of such synthetic securities, and not the Reference Obligor (as defined below) on the Reference Obligation (as defined below). The Company generally will have no right to enforce directly compliance by the Reference Obligor with the terms of the Reference Obligation nor any rights of set-off against the Reference Obligor, nor have any voting rights with respect to the Reference Obligation. The Company will not benefit directly 28 Table of Contents from any collateral supporting the Reference Obligation or have the benefit of the remedies on default that would normally be available to a holder of such Reference Obligation. In addition, in the event of insolvency of its counterparty, the Company will be treated as a general creditor of such counterparty and will not have any claim with respect to the credit risk of the counterparty as well as that of the Reference Obligor. As a result, an overabundance of synthetic securities with any one counterparty subjects the notes to an additional degree of risk with respect to defaults by such counterparty as well as by the Reference Obligor. The Investment Adviser may not perform independent credit analyses of the counterparties, any such counterparty, or an entity guaranteeing such counterparty, individually or in the aggregate. A “Reference Obligation” is the debt security or other obligation upon which the synthetic security is based. A “Reference Obligor” is the obligor on a Reference Obligation. There is no maximum amount of the Company’s assets that may be invested in these securities. Non-diversification of the Company’s assets or the use of other focused strategies may present more risks than if the Company were diversified or used broad strategies. While the Investment Adviser will invest in a number of fixed-income and equity instruments issued by different issuers and plans to employ multiple investment strategies with respect to our portfolio, it is possible that a significant amount of our investments could be invested in the instruments of only a few companies or other issuers or that at any particular point in time one investment strategy could be more heavily weighted than the others. The focus of our portfolio in any one issuer would subject us to a greater degree of risk with respect to defaults by such issuer or other adverse events affecting that issuer, and the focus of the portfolio in any one industry or group of industries would subject us to a greater degree of risk with respect to economic downturns relating to such industry. The focus of our portfolio in any one investment strategy would subject us to a greater degree of risk than if our portfolio were varied in its investments with respect to several investment strategies. Prospective investments in small, unseasoned companies may be risky. We may invest in the securities of smaller, less seasoned companies. These investments may present greater opportunities for growth, but also involve greater risks than customarily are associated with investments in securities of more established companies. Some of the companies in which we may invest will be start-up companies, which may have insubstantial operational or earnings history or may have limited products, markets, financial resources or management depth. Some may also be emerging companies at the research and development stage with no products or technologies to market or approved for marketing. Securities of emerging companies may lack an active secondary market and may be subject to more abrupt or erratic price movements than securities of larger, more established companies or stock market averages in general. Competitors of certain companies may have substantially greater financial resources than many of the companies in which we may invest. Our investments in foreign securities may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. We intend to invest up to (but may invest more than) 20% of our total assets in foreign securities, which may include securities denominated in U.S. dollars or in foreign currencies or multinational currency units. Investing in foreign securities involves certain risks not involved in domestic investments, including, but not limited to: (1) future foreign economic, financial, political and social developments; (2) different legal systems; (3) the possible imposition of exchange controls or other foreign governmental laws or restrictions; (4) lower trading volume; (5) much greater price volatility and illiquidity of certain foreign securities markets; (6) different trading and settlement practices; (7) less governmental supervision; (8) changes in currency exchange rates; (9) high and volatile rates of inflation; (10) fluctuating interest rates; (11) less publicly available information; (12) different accounting, auditing and financial recordkeeping standards and requirements; and (13) expropriation, confiscatory taxation and nationalization. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize currency exchange rate risks or interest rate risks, but we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate 29 Table of Contents fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. Our investments in emerging markets may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in developed markets. Some of the securities of foreign issuers in which the Company may invest include securities of emerging market issuers. Emerging market countries generally include every nation in the world except the U.S., Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and most countries located in Western Europe. Investing in securities of issuers based in underdeveloped emerging markets entails all of the risks of investing in securities of non-U.S. issuers to a heightened degree. These heightened risks include: (i) greater risks of expropriation, confiscatory taxation and nationalization and less social, political and economic stability; (ii) the smaller size of the markets for such securities and a lower volume of trading, resulting in lack of liquidity and in price volatility; and (iii) certain national policies that may restrict the Company’s investment opportunities, including restrictions on investing in issuers or industries deemed sensitive to relevant national interests. Terrorist attacks and acts of war may affect any market for our Shares, impact the businesses in which we invest and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The war with Iraq, its aftermath and the continuing U.S. presence in Iraq are likely to have a substantial impact on the U.S. and world economies and securities markets. The nature, scope and duration of the war and occupation cannot be predicted with any certainty. Terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001 closed some of the U.S. securities markets for a four-day period and similar events in the future cannot be ruled out. The war, the U.S. presence in Iraq, terrorism and related geopolitical risks have led to, and may in the future lead to, increased short-term market volatility and may have adverse long-term effects on U.S. and world economies and markets generally. Those events could also have an acute effect on individual issuers or related groups of issuers. These risks could also adversely affect individual issuers and securities markets, inflation and other factors relating to the Shares. There can be no assurance that the Investment Adviser will be able to predict accurately the future course of the price movements of securities and other investments and the movements of interest rates. The profitability of a significant portion of the Company’s investment program depends to a great extent upon the Investment Adviser’s correctly assessing the future course of the price movements of securities and other investments and the movements of interest rates. There can be no assurance that the Investment Adviser will be able to predict accurately these price and interest rate movements. With respect to the investment strategies the Company may utilize, there will be a high degree of market risk. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock We may experience fluctuations in our net asset value. Because a substantial portion of the assets of the Company consist of loans and debt securities, the net asset value of the Shares will fluctuate with changes in interest rates, as well as with changes in the prices of the securities owned by the Company caused by other factors. These fluctuations are likely to be greater when the Company is using financial leverage. We may be subject to U.S. federal income tax if we are unable to qualify as a regulated investment company. To maintain our qualification as a regulated investment company under the Code, we must meet certain source-of-income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. Satisfying these requirements may require the Company to take actions that it would not otherwise take, such as selling investments at unattractive prices to satisfy such source-of-income, diversification or distribution requirements. In addition, while the Company is authorized to borrow funds in order to make distributions, under the 1940 Act it is not permitted to make distributions to stockholders while its debt obligations, if any, and other senior securities are outstanding unless 30 Table of Contents certain “asset coverage” tests are met. If we fail to qualify as a regulated investment company for any reason and become or remain subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on the Company and its stockholders. Our recognition of income before or without receiving cash representing such income may lead to difficulties in making distributions. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we invest in zero coupon securities, deferred interest securities or certain other securities, or if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances. Such original issue discount generally will be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. That part of the incentive fee payable by us that relates to our net investment income will be computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that is structured to provide accrued interest, it is possible that accrued interest previously used in the calculation of the incentive fee will become uncollectible. In such case, the Investment Adviser is not obligated to reimburse the Company for any incentive fees received even if the Company subsequently recognizes losses or never receives cash with respect to income that was previously accrued. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty making distributions in the amounts necessary to satisfy the requirements for maintaining regulated investment company status and for avoiding U.S. federal income and excise taxes. Accordingly, to meet these distribution requirements we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, or we may have to raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a regulated investment company and become subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax. Changes in the laws or regulations governing our portfolio companies could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our portfolio companies will be subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal level. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Any change in these laws or regulations, or any failure to comply with them by our portfolio companies, could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our Shares. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that could limit the ability of other entities or persons to acquire control of us or convert us to an investment company. These provisions could deprive the holders of Shares of opportunities to sell their Shares at a premium over the then current market price of the Shares or at net asset value Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 