ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as other information contained in this Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. The risks described below are those that we believe are the material risks we face. Any of these risks could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to our business and industry Narrow commodity margins have resulted in decreased liquidity and continue to present a significant risk to our ability to service our debt. Our operations and cash flows are subject to wide and unpredictable fluctuations due to changes in commodity prices, specifically, the price of our main commodity input, corn, relative to the price of our main commodity product, ethanol, which is known in the industry as the “crush spread.” The prices of these commodities are volatile and beyond our control. For example, from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2010, spot corn prices on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) ranged from $3.01 to $6.29 per bushel, while CBOT ethanol prices ranged from $1.47 to $2.38 per gallon during the same period. However, the volatility in corn prices and the volatility in ethanol prices are not necessarily correlated, and as a result, the crush spread, as measured by CBOT prices, fluctuated widely throughout 2009, ranging from $0.06 per gallon to $0.68 per gallon, and during 2010, ranging from ($0.09) to $0.47. The actual commodity margins we realize may not be the same as the crush spreads reflected by CBOT market prices as a result of various factors, including differences in geographic basis paid for corn, varying ethanol sales prices in different markets and the timing differential between when we purchase corn and when we sell our products. As a result of the volatility of the prices for these and other items, our results fluctuate substantially and in ways that are largely beyond our control. As reported in the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere with this Annual Report, we reported net losses of $25.2 million and $19.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. During each of these years crush spreads fluctuated significantly. Narrow commodity margins present a significant risk to our cash flows and liquidity. We have had, and continue to have limited liquidity, with $7.4 million of cash on hand as of December 31, 2010. Crush spreads have contracted since the end of 2010 and, should current margins continue for an extended period of time, we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to both service our debt and operate our plants. In 2011, we will be required to make, under the terms of our Senior Debt Facility, quarterly principal payments at a minimum amount of $3,150,000, plus accrued interest. In addition, we have fully utilized our debt service reserve availability under our $230 million Senior Credit Facility (of which $189.4 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2010). We cannot predict when or if crush spreads will fluctuate again or if the current margins will improve or worsen. If crush spreads were to remain at current levels for an extended period of time, we may expend all of our sources of liquidity, in which event we would not be able to pay principal and interest on our debt. In the event crush spreads narrow further, we may choose to curtail operations at our plants or cease operations altogether. Any inability to pay principal and interest on our debt would lead to an event of default under our Senior Debt Facility, which, in the absence of forbearance, debt service abeyance or other accommodations from our lenders, could require us to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We expect fluctuations in the crush spread to continue. Any further reduction in the crush spread may cause our operating margins to deteriorate further, resulting in an impairment charge in addition to causing the consequences described above. Since we commenced operations, we have from time to time entered into derivative financial instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and option contracts with the objective of limiting our exposure to changes in commodities prices. However, we are currently able to engage in such hedging activities only on a limited basis due to our lack of financial resources, and we may not have the financial resources to increase or conduct any of these hedging activities in the future. In addition, if geographic basis differentials are not hedged, they could cause our hedging programs to be ineffective or less effective than anticipated. 13 We are currently limited in our ability to hedge against fluctuations in commodity prices and may be unable to do so in the future, which further exposes us to commodity price risk. Since we have commenced operations, we have from time to time entered into derivative financial instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and option contracts with the objective of limiting our exposure to changes in commodities prices. However, we are currently able to engage in such hedging activities only on a limited basis due to our lack of financial resources, and we may not have the financial resources to conduct hedging activities in the future. In addition, ethanol futures have historically traded with an inverted price progression, or “strip,” whereby outer month contracts are priced at lower prices than spot or near-month contracts. In contrast, corn futures historically have traded such that outer months have higher prices than near or spot months. As a result, even under market conditions in which we realize positive margins at current (spot) prices we may not be able to lock in such margins for future production. Furthermore, because of the lack of an established futures market or established markets for future physical delivery of ethanol, we may not be able to price a material amount of our future production so as to permit us to hedge a material portion of our commodities price risks. We have a significant amount of indebtedness and limited liquidity, and virtually all of our assets are pledged to secure our senior debt. The operating subsidiaries of the LLC that own and operate our Wood River and Fairmont plants have entered into a Senior Debt Facility with a group of financial institutions that is secured by substantially all of those subsidiaries’ assets. As of December 31, 2010, we had $189.4 million of indebtedness outstanding under our Senior Debt Facility. Our substantial indebtedness could: • require us to dedicate all of our cash flow from operations (after the payment of operating expenses) to payments with respect to our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate expenditures; • restrict our ability to take advantage of strategic opportunities; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, competition or changes in our business or industry; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; • restrict us from expanding our current facilities, building new facilities or exploring business opportunities; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt or greater financial resources. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our Senior Debt Facility depends on our ability to generate cash from our operations. Our ability to generate cash from operations is subject, in large part, to our crush spread as well as general economic, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors and other factors that are beyond our control. During our first two full years’ of operations, we have been unable to consistently generate positive cash flow, mostly due to the narrow crush spread. In addition, we have had, and continue to have, severely limited liquidity, with $7.4 million of cash on hand as of December 31, 2010. If we do not have sufficient cash flow to service our debt, we would need to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise additional capital, any or all of which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to do so, we may be required to curtail operations or cease operating altogether, and could be forced to seek relief from creditors through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Because the debt under our Senior Debt Facility subjects substantially all of our assets to liens, there may be no assets left for stockholders in the event of a liquidation. In the event of a foreclosure on all or substantially all of our assets, we may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. 14 The terms of the Senior Debt Facility include customary events of default and covenants that limit the applicable subsidiaries from taking certain actions without obtaining the consent of the lenders. In particular, our Senior Debt Facility places significant restrictions on the ability of those subsidiaries to distribute cash to the LLC, which limits our ability to use cash generated by those subsidiaries for other purposes. In addition, the Senior Debt Facility restricts those subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness. Under our Senior Debt Facility, if Cargill admits in writing its inability to, or is generally unable to, pay its debts as such debts become due, we will be deemed to be in default. In addition, should either of our subsidiaries that are borrowers under the Senior Debt Facility admit in writing its inability to, or is generally unable to, pay its debts as such debts become due, we will be deemed to be in default. Any future debt facilities will likely be secured by substantially all our assets. We expect that any debt we incur to finance future needs will be incurred either pursuant to an expanded version of our current Senior Debt Facility, a new, separate credit facility (which would require the consent of our existing banks) or a new corporate credit facility that would replace our current Senior Debt Facility. In any event, it is most likely that this indebtedness would be secured by substantially all of our assets. Because the debt under these facilities may subject substantially all of our assets to liens, there may be no assets left for stockholders in the event of a liquidation. Moreover, because the Senior Debt Facility only contains limits on the amount of indebtedness that certain of our subsidiaries may incur, we have the ability to incur substantial additional indebtedness, and any additional indebtedness we incur could exacerbate the risks described above. The domestic ethanol industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The elimination of, or any significant reduction in, the blenders’ credit could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. The cost of production of ethanol is made significantly more competitive with that of gasoline as a result of federal tax incentives. The Volumetric Ethanol Excise Tax Credit, commonly referred to as the “blenders’ credit,” is a federal excise tax incentive program that allows gasoline distributors that blend ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax rate reduction for each blended gallon they sold. The original $0.51 per gallon credit was reduced to $0.45 per gallon beginning on January 1, 2009 and was scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010. In December 2010, Congress extended the blenders’ credit for one year, until December 31, 2011. Because of budgetary pressures and other political factors, it is possible that the blenders’ credit will not be renewed beyond 2011 or will be renewed on different terms. If the blenders’ credit is not renewed, or is renewed at a reduced rate, it may decrease the demand for ethanol, which is likely to result in lower prices for ethanol, or it may result in a decrease in the price that gasoline blenders and marketers are able to pay for ethanol. In such event, there would likely be a material adverse affect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The elimination of or significant changes to the Freedom to Farm Act could reduce corn supplies. In 1996, Congress passed the Freedom to Farm Act, which allows farmers continued access to government subsidies while reducing restrictions on farmers’ decisions about land use. This act not only increased acreage dedicated to corn crops but also allowed farmers more flexibility to respond to increases in corn prices by planting greater amounts of corn. The elimination of this act could reduce the amount of corn available in future years and could reduce the farming industry’s responsiveness to the increasing corn needs of ethanol producers. Ethanol can be imported into the United States duty-free from some countries, which may undermine the domestic ethanol industry. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff that was designed to offset the “blenders’ credit” ethanol incentive available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries that blend ethanol in their gasoline. A special exemption from the tariff exists for ethanol imported from 24 countries in Central America and the Caribbean Islands, which is limited to a total of 7.0% of U.S. production per year. In addition, the North American Free Trade Agreement, which went into effect on January 1, 1994, allows Canada and Mexico to import ethanol duty-free. Imports from the exempted countries may increase as a result of new plants under development. The tariff was scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010 but has been extended by Congress until December 31, 2011. If it is not extended further 15 by Congress, imports of ethanol from non-exempt countries may increase. Production costs for ethanol in these countries can be significantly less than in the United States and the duty-free import of lower price ethanol through the countries exempted from the tariff may reduce the demand for domestic ethanol and the price at which we sell our ethanol. The effect of the Renewable Fuel Standard, or RFS, program in the Energy Independence and Security Act signed into law in December 2007 and the Energy Policy Act signed into law in August 2005 is uncertain. The use of fuel oxygenates, including ethanol, was mandated through regulation, and much of the forecasted growth in demand for ethanol was expected to result from additional mandated use of oxygenates as the U.S. motor fuel supply switched from methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) to ethanol. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 and the Energy Policy Act of 2005, however, eliminated the mandated use of oxygenates and instead established minimum nationwide levels of renewable fuels — ethanol, biodiesel or any other liquid fuel produced from biomass or biogas — to be blended with gasoline. The legislation also included provisions for trading of credits for use of renewable fuels and authorized potential reductions in the RFS minimum by action of a governmental administrator. The rules for implementation of the RFS and the energy bill have been in effect since September 2007, but the ultimate effects of these rules on the ethanol industry remain uncertain. In addition, the favorable ethanol provisions in the 2007 Act and 2005 Act may be adversely affected by the enactment of additional legislation. The legislation did not include MTBE liability protection sought by refiners. Management believes that this lack of protection led to the virtual elimination of MTBE as a blending agent, and increased demand for ethanol. Refineries, however, may use replacement additives other than ethanol, such as iso-octane, iso-octene and alkylate. Accordingly, the actual demand for ethanol may increase at a lower rate than previously estimated, resulting in excess production capacity in our industry, which would negatively affect our business. Waivers of the RFS minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Under the Energy Policy Act, the U.S. Department of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy, may waive the renewable fuels mandate with respect to one or more states if the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency determines that implementing the requirements would severely harm the economy or the environment of a state, a region or the nation, or that there is inadequate supply to meet the requirements. Any waiver of the RFS with respect to one or more states would reduce demand for ethanol and could cause our results of operations to decline and our financial condition to suffer. Our results and liquidity may be adversely affected by future hedging transactions and other strategies. Although our ability to do so is presently limited due to limited financial resources, we may in the future enter into contracts to sell a portion of our ethanol and distillers grain production or to purchase a portion of our corn or natural gas requirements on a forward basis to offset some of the effects of volatility of ethanol prices and costs of commodities. From time to time, we may also engage in other hedging transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts for corn and natural gas. The financial statement impact of these activities will depend upon, among other things, the prices involved, changes in the underlying market price and our ability to sell sufficient products to use all of the corn and natural gas for which we have futures contracts or our ability to sell excess corn or natural gas purchased in hedging transactions. Hedging arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or, in the case of exchange-traded contracts, where there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual prices paid or received by us. Although we will attempt to link our hedging activities to sales and production plans and pricing activities, such hedging activities can themselves result in losses. Hedging activities can result in losses when a position is purchased in a declining market or a position is sold in a rising market. This risk can be increased in highly volatile conditions such as those recently experienced in corn and other commodities futures markets. A hedge position is often settled when the physical commodity is either purchased (corn and natural gas) or sold (ethanol or distillers grain). In the interim, we are and may continue to be subject to the risk of margin calls and other demands on our financial resources arising from hedging activities. We have experienced hedging losses in the past and we may experience hedging losses again in the future. We may 16 also vary the amount of hedging or other price mitigation strategies we undertake, and we may choose not to engage in hedging transactions at all. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by increases in the price of corn or natural gas or decreases in the price of ethanol. In addition, our significant indebtedness and debt service requirements increase the effect of changes in commodities prices on our cash flow, and may limit our ability to sustain our operations in the future. The Company has adopted a risk management policy which is intended to provide additional, formal oversight over the hedging activities of the LLC and the operating subsidiaries of the LLC. We cannot assure you, however, that this policy will prevent or mitigate future hedging losses. Increased acceptance of ethanol as a fuel and construction of additional ethanol production plants could lead to shortages of availability and increases in the price of corn. The growth of the ethanol industry has led to significantly greater demand for corn. Cargill, which supplies corn for our plants, may have difficulty from time to time in sourcing corn on economical terms, due to supply shortages or elevated market prices. Any supply shortage could require us to suspend operations until corn becomes available on economical terms. Suspension of operations would materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, the price we pay for corn could increase if another ethanol production facility were built in the same general vicinity, if we expand one of our production facilities or based on market conditions. One of our competitors has constructed a large scale ethanol production plant approximately six miles from our Fairmont site, near Welcome, Minnesota. Two plants in such close proximity could lead to increases in the price of corn or shortages of availability of corn in the area. In addition, the price of corn increased significantly over historical levels in late 2010 and has remained high into the first quarter of 2011. We believe that this increase in corn prices is attributable in part to the increased demand from new ethanol production capacity. We cannot assure you that the price of corn will not rise significantly in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Excess production capacity in our industry may result in over-supply of ethanol which could adversely affect our business. According to the Renewable Fuels Association (the “RFA”), a trade group, domestic ethanol production capacity has increased from approximately 1.8 billion gallons per year (Bgpy) in 2001, to an estimated 14.0 Bgpy at the end of 2010. The RFA estimates that, as of January 1, 2011, approximately 565 million gallons per year (Mgpy) of additional production capacity is under construction at various new and existing facilities. In addition, the Energy Information Agency (EIA) of the U.S. Department of Energy recently estimated that, during the month of December 2010, the most recent month for which statistics were available, daily ethanol production in the U.S. averaged 918,000 barrels per day, which would equate to an annualized output of approximately 14.1 Bgpy, exceeding the nameplate capacity for the industry. As a result of this increase in production, the ethanol industry faces the risk of excess capacity. In a manufacturing industry with excess capacity, producers have an incentive to continue manufacturing products as long as the price of the product exceeds the marginal cost of production (i.e., the cost of producing only the next unit, without regard to interest, overhead or other fixed costs). Excess ethanol production capacity also may result from decreases in the demand for ethanol, which could result from a number of factors, including regulatory developments and reduced gasoline consumption in the United States. Reduced gasoline consumption could occur as a result of a decline in general economic conditions, as a result of increased prices for gasoline or crude oil, which could cause businesses and consumers to reduce driving or acquire vehicles with more favorable gasoline mileage, or as a result of technological advances, such as the commercialization of hydrogen fuel-cells, which could supplant gasoline-powered engines. There are a number of governmental initiatives designed to reduce gasoline consumption, including tax credits for hybrid vehicles and consumer education programs. According to preliminary data published by the EIA, motor fuel consumption in the United States, which includes ethanol blended with gasoline, increased slightly to approximately 138.7 billion gallons in 2010 from 137.8 billion gallons the prior year. Management believes that this moderation in overall motor fuel consumption has been the result of the economic recession recently experienced in the U.S., and has also contributed to declining margins for ethanol. 17 If there is excess capacity in our industry, and it continues to outstrip demand for a significant period of time, the market price of ethanol could remain at a level that is inadequate to generate sufficient cash flow to cover costs, which could result in an impairment charge, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and which could render us unable to make debt service payments and cause us to cease operating altogether. Competition for qualified personnel in the ethanol industry is intense, and we may not be able to retain qualified personnel to operate our ethanol plants. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain competent personnel. For each of our plants, we must hire and retain qualified managers, engineers and operations and other personnel, which can be challenging in a rural community. Competition for both managers and plant employees in the ethanol industry can be intense. Although we have hired the personnel necessary to operate our plants, we may not be able to maintain or retain qualified personnel. If we are unable to hire and maintain or retain productive and competent personnel, our strategy may be adversely affected and we may not be able to efficiently operate our ethanol plants as planned. We are dependent upon our officers for management and direction, and the loss of any of these persons could adversely affect our operations and results. We are dependent upon the diligence and skill of our senior management team for implementation of our proposed strategy and execution of our business plan, and our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of our officers or other employees. The loss of any of our officers could delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We are dependent on our commercial relationship with Cargill and subject to various risks associated with this relationship. Our operating results may suffer if Cargill does not perform its obligations under our contracts. We have entered into an extensive commercial relationship with Cargill and will be dependent on Cargill for the success of our business. This relationship includes long-term marketing agreements with Cargill, under which Cargill has agreed to market and distribute 100% of the ethanol and dried distillers grain produced at our Wood River and Fairmont production plants. We have also entered into corn supply agreements with Cargill, under which Cargill supplies 100% of the corn for our Wood River and Fairmont plants. The success of our business depends on Cargill’s ability to provide our production plants with the required corn supply in a cost-effective manner and to market and distribute our products successfully. If Cargill defaults on payments owed to us, fails to perform any of its responsibilities or does not perform its responsibilities as effectively as we expect them to under our agreements, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Cargill may terminate its arrangements with us in the event that certain parties acquire 30% or more of our common stock or the power to elect a majority of the Board. Cargill has the right to terminate its arrangements with us for any or all of our facilities if any of five identified parties or their affiliates acquires 30% or more of our common stock or the power to elect a majority of our board of directors. Cargill has designated five parties, each of which is currently engaged primarily in the agricultural commodities business, and it has the right to annually update this list of identified parties, so long as the list does not exceed five entities and the affiliates of such entities. The five parties currently identified by Cargill are Archer Daniels Midland Company, CHS Inc., Tate & Lyle PLC, The Scoular Company and Bunge Limited. Cargill’s termination right may have the effect of deferring, delaying or discouraging transactions with these parties and their affiliates that might otherwise be beneficial to us. If Cargill were to terminate any of our goods and services agreements, it would have a significant negative impact on our business and we would be unable to continue our operations at each affected facility until alternative arrangements were made. If we were required to make alternative arrangements, we may not be able to make such arrangements or, if we are able to make such arrangements, they may not be on terms as favorable as our agreements with Cargill. We currently have no agreements or structure in place that would prohibit any of the parties identified by Cargill from acquiring 30% or more of our common stock and we do not expect to have any such agreements or structures in the future. However, we have no expectation that any of these parties would have an interest in acquiring shares 18 of our common stock. We monitor Schedule 13D filings so that we will be informed of any parties accumulating ownership of our stock. If any identified party accumulates a significant amount of stock, our board of directors will address the matter at that time consistent with its fiduciary duties under applicable law. If we do not meet certain quality and quantity standards under our marketing agreements with Cargill, our results of operations may be adversely affected. If our ethanol or dried distillers grain does not meet certain quality standards, Cargill may reject our products or accept our products and decrease the purchase price to reflect the inferior quality. In addition, if our dried distillers grain is subject to a recall reasonably determined by Cargill to be necessary, we will be responsible for all reasonable costs associated with the recall. If we fail to produce a sufficient amount of ethanol or dried distillers grain and, as a result, Cargill is required to purchase replacement products from third parties at a higher purchase price to meet sale commitments, we must pay Cargill the price difference plus a commission on the deficiency volume. Our failure to meet the quality and quantity standards in our marketing agreements with Cargill could adversely affect our results of operations. We will be subject to certain risks associated with Cargill’s ethanol marketing pool. Under the terms of our ethanol marketing agreements, Cargill may place our ethanol in a common marketing pool with ethanol produced by Cargill and certain other third party producers. Each participant in the pool will receive the same price for its share of ethanol sold, net of freight and other agreed costs incurred by Cargill with respect to the pooled ethanol. Freight and other charges will be divided among pool participants based solely upon each participant’s ethanol volume in the pool. As a result, we may be responsible for higher freight and other costs than we would be if we did not participate in the marketing pool, depending on the freight and other costs attributable to the other marketing pool members. In addition, we may become committed to sell ethanol at a fixed price in the future under the marketing pool, exposing us to the risk of increased corn prices if we are unable to hedge such sales. We have the right to opt out of the ethanol marketing pool for any contract year by giving Cargill a six-month advance notice. However, we may be required to participate in the pool for an additional 18 months if Cargill has contractually committed to sell ethanol based on our continued participation in the pool. We are subject to certain risks associated with our corn supply agreements with Cargill. We have agreed to purchase our required corn supply for our Wood River and Fairmont plants exclusively from Cargill and pay Cargill a per bushel fee for all corn Cargill sells to us. We cannot assure you that the prices we pay for corn under our corn supply agreements with Cargill, together with the fee we have agreed to pay to Cargill, will be lower than the prices we could pay or that our competitors will be paying for corn from other sources. Our interests may conflict with the interests of Cargill. Cargill owns and operates two of its own ethanol plants, which are capable of producing approximately 120 Mmgy. In addition, we understand that Cargill may market ethanol for other third parties under the marketing pool arrangements described above. We cannot assure you that Cargill will not favor its own interests or those of other parties over our interests. Under our marketing agreements with Cargill, other than our right to terminate to the extent such conflict results in material quantifiable pecuniary loss, we have waived any claim of conflict of interest against Cargill for failure to use commercially reasonable efforts to maximize our returns to the extent such claims relate to an alleged conflict of interest or alleged preference to third parties for which Cargill provides marketing services. If we elected to terminate the marketing agreements in these circumstances, we would need to enter into replacement marketing arrangements with another party, which may not be possible at all or on terms as favorable as our current agreements with Cargill. To the extent a conflict of interest does not result in material quantifiable pecuniary loss, we would be without recourse against Cargill. New, more energy-efficient technologies for producing ethanol could displace corn-based ethanol and materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. The development and implementation of new technologies may impact our business significantly. The current trend in ethanol production research is to develop an efficient method of producing ethanol from cellulosic biomass such as agricultural waste, forest residue, and municipal solid waste. This trend is driven by the fact that cellulosic biomass is generally cheaper than corn and producing ethanol from cellulosic biomass would create opportunities to produce ethanol in areas that are unable to grow corn. Another trend in 19 ethanol production research is to produce ethanol through a chemical process rather than a fermentation process, thereby significantly increasing the ethanol yield per pound of feedstock. Although current technology does not allow these production methods to be cost competitive, new technologies may develop that would allow these or other methods to become viable means of ethanol production in the future thereby displacing corn-based ethanol in whole or in part or intensifying competition in the ethanol industry. Our plants are designed to produce corn-based ethanol through a fermentation process. If we are unable to adopt or incorporate these advances into our operations, our cost of producing ethanol could be significantly higher than those of our competitors, and retrofitting our plants may be very time-consuming and could require significant capital expenditures. In addition, advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol, such as alternative fuel additives, or technological advances in engine and exhaust system design performance, such as the commercialization of hydrogen fuel-cells or hybrid engines, or other factors could significantly reduce demand for or eliminate the need for ethanol. We cannot predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies, the costs associated with new technologies or whether these other factors may harm demand for ethanol. Our profit margins may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the selling price and production cost of gasoline. Ethanol is marketed as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of the gasoline with which it is blended and, to a lesser extent, as a gasoline substitute. As a result, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply of and demand for gasoline. Our results of operations may be materially harmed if the demand for, or the price of, gasoline decreases. Conversely, a prolonged increase in the price of, or demand for, gasoline could lead the U.S. government to relax import restrictions on foreign ethanol that currently benefit us. Our business is highly sensitive to corn prices, and we generally cannot pass along increases in corn prices to our customers. Corn is the principal raw material we use to produce ethanol and distillers grain. In 2010, corn costs represented approximately 71% of our cost of goods sold, and approximately 69% of our total operating expenses. Changes in the price of corn therefore significantly affect our business. In general, rising corn prices result in lower profit margins and may result in negative margins if not accompanied by increases in ethanol prices. Under current market conditions, because ethanol competes with fuels that are not corn-based, we generally are unable to pass along increased corn costs to our customer. At certain levels, corn prices would make ethanol uneconomical to use in fuel markets. Over the period from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2010, spot corn prices, based on the Chicago Board of Trade, or CBOT, have ranged from a low of $3.01 per bushel in September 2009 to a high of $6.29 per bushel in December 2010, with prices averaging $3.99 per bushel during this two year period. As of December 31, 2010, the CBOT spot price of corn was $6.29 per bushel. The price of corn is influenced by a number of factors, including weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions and general economic, market and regulatory factors, government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local supply and demand. In addition, any event that tends to increase the demand for corn could cause the price of corn to increase. We believe that the increasing ethanol production capacity has contributed to, and will continue to contribute to, a period of elevated corn prices compared to historical levels. The market for natural gas is subject to market conditions that create uncertainty in the price and availability of the natural gas that we will use in our manufacturing process. We rely upon third parties for our supply of natural gas, which we use in the ethanol production process. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. The fluctuations in natural gas prices over the period from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2010, based on the New York Mercantile Exchange, or NYMEX, have ranged from a low of $2.51 per million British Thermal Units (Mmbtu) in September 2009 to a high of $6.07 per Mmbtu in January 2009, averaging $4.29 per Mmbtu during this two year period. As of December 31, 2010, the NYMEX spot price of natural gas was $4.41 per Mmbtu. These market conditions are often affected by factors beyond our control, such as the price of oil as a competitive fuel, higher prices resulting from colder than average weather conditions or the impact of 20 hurricanes and overall economic conditions. Local variation in the cost or supply of natural gas at either plant may also negatively impact our operations. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could impair our ability to manufacture ethanol for our customers. Furthermore, increases in natural gas prices could adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to compete effectively. We compete with a number of significant ethanol producers in the United States, including Archer Daniels Midland Company, Valero Energy Corporation, Poet, Green Plains Renewable Energy, Inc., Koch Industries and Abengoa Bioenergy Corporation, Some of our competitors are divisions of larger enterprises and have substantially greater financial resources than we do. According to the RFA, the three largest producers (Archer Daniels Midland Company, Poet and Valero Energy Corporation) together control approximately 32% of the ethanol market as of the end of 2010. In 2008 and 2009, a number of significant competitors in the ethanol industry and a variety of smaller producers filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The production facilities of these competitors were subsequently sold to either existing ethanol producers, such as Poet and Green Plains Renewable Energy, or to new entrants to the industry, such as Valero Energy, Murphy Oil, Koch Industries and Sunoco Oil, each of which is a blender, producer and/or retailer of gasoline. The impact of these large oil refiners and retailers vertically integrating into ethanol production, and the possibility that one or more of our other competitors have acquired productive assets out of bankruptcy with improved capital structures, or without significant debt service obligations, could have the potential effect of placing us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition to the larger sized competitors described above, there are many smaller competitors that have been able to compete successfully in the ethanol industry made up mostly of farmer-owned cooperatives and independent firms consisting of groups of individual farmers and investors. As many of these smaller competitors are farmer-owned, they receive greater government subsidies than we do and often require their farmer-owners to commit to selling them a certain amount of corn as a requirement of ownership. We expect competition to increase as the ethanol industry becomes more widely known and demand for ethanol increases. We also face increasing competition from international suppliers. International suppliers produce ethanol primarily from sugar cane and at times may have cost structures that are substantially lower than ours depending on the market price of sugar or other feedstocks relative to corn. Although there is a $0.54 per gallon tariff on foreign-produced ethanol that is approximately equal to the federal blenders’ credit, ethanol imports equivalent to up to 7% of total domestic production in any given year from various countries were exempted from this tariff under the Caribbean Basin Initiative in order to spur economic development in Central America and the Caribbean. In addition, this tariff is currently scheduled to expire on December 31, 2011, and there can be no assurance that it will be renewed beyond that time. Any increase in domestic or foreign competition could force us to reduce our prices and take other steps to compete effectively, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Growth in the sale and distribution of ethanol depends on changes to and expansion of related infrastructure which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all. It currently is impracticable to transport by pipeline fuel blends that contain ethanol. Substantial development of infrastructure will be required by persons and entities outside our control for our business, and the ethanol industry generally, to grow. Areas requiring expansion include, but are not limited to: • additional rail car capacity; • additional storage facilities for ethanol; • increases in truck fleets capable of transporting ethanol within localized markets; • investment in refining and blending infrastructure to handle ethanol; • growth in service stations equipped to handle ethanol fuels; and • growth in the fleet of flexible fuel vehicles capable of using E85 fuels. 21 The substantial investments or government support required for these infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made on a timely basis or at all. Any delay or failure in making the changes to or expansion of infrastructure could weaken the demand or prices for our products, impede our delivery of products, impose additional costs on us or otherwise materially harm our results of operations or financial position. Transportation delays, including those as a result of disruptions to infrastructure, could adversely affect our operations. Our business depends on the availability of rail and road distribution infrastructure. Any disruptions in this infrastructure network, whether caused by earthquakes, storms, other natural disasters or human error or malfeasance, could materially impact our business. It currently is impracticable to transport by pipeline fuel blends that contain ethanol, and we have limited ethanol storage capacity at our facilities. Therefore, any unexpected delay in transportation of our ethanol could result in significant disruption to our operations, possibly requiring shutting down our plant operations. We will rely upon others to maintain our rail lines from our production plants to national rail networks, and any failure on their part to maintain the lines could impede our delivery of products, impose additional costs on us or otherwise cause our results of operations or financial condition to suffer. Disruptions in the supply of oil or natural gas could materially harm our business. Significant amounts of oil and natural gas are required for the growing, fertilizing and harvesting of corn, as well as for the fermentation, distillation and transportation of ethanol and the drying of distillers grain. A serious disruption in the supply of oil or natural gas and any related period of elevated prices could significantly increase our production costs and possibly require shutting down our plant operations, which would materially harm our business. Our business may be influenced by seasonal fluctuations. Our operating results may be influenced by seasonal fluctuations in the price of our primary operating inputs, corn and natural gas, and the price of our primary product, ethanol. Generally speaking, the spot price of corn tends to rise during the spring planting season in April and May and tends to decrease during the fall harvest in October and November. The price for natural gas, however, tends to move inversely to that of corn and tends to be lower in the spring and summer and higher in the fall and winter. In addition, ethanol prices have historically been substantially correlated with the price of unleaded gasoline. The price of unleaded gasoline tends to rise during the summer and winter. Due to the blenders’ credit, ethanol historically has traded at a per gallon premium to gasoline, although there have been times that ethanol has traded at a discount to gasoline. This discount, or price inversion, is believed to be the result of the rapid growth in the supply of ethanol compounded by the limited infrastructure and blending capacity required for distribution. Given our limited operating history, we do not know yet how these seasonal fluctuations will affect our operating results over time. The price of distillers grain is affected by the price of other commodity products, such as soybeans, and decreases in the price of these commodities could decrease the price of distillers grain. Distillers grain is one of many animal feed products and competes with other protein-based animal feed products. The price of distillers grain may decrease when the price of competing feed products decreases. The prices of competing animal feed products are based in part on the prices of the commodities from which they are derived. Downward pressure on commodity prices, such as soybeans, will generally cause the price of competing animal feed products to decline, resulting in downward pressure on the price of distillers grain. Because the price of distillers grain is not tied to production costs, decreases in the price of distillers grain will result in us generating less revenue and lower profit margins. In addition, the production of distillers grain is expected to rise significantly in connection with the projected expansion of ethanol production capacity in the United States over the next several years. As a result of this likely significant increase in supply, the market price of distillers grain may fall sharply from its current levels. If the market price of distillers grain falls, our business and financial results may be harmed. 22 Our financial results may be adversely affected by potential future acquisitions or sales of our plants, which could divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. As part of our business strategy, and as market and financing conditions permit, we intend to (1) pursue acquisitions of other ethanol producers, building sites, production facilities, storage or distribution facilities and selected infrastructure and (2) seek opportunities to sell one or more plants or plant sites on a basis more favorable than we would expect to realize by holding them. Due to increased competition, however, we may not be able to secure suitable acquisition opportunities. Further, we may not be able to find a buyer or buyers for one or more of our plants or plant sites at prices that we consider attractive. In addition, the completion of any acquisition may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our operations. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity securities or debt that is convertible into equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could affect the market price of our common stock. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. We have encountered unanticipated difficulties in operating our plants, which may recur and cause us to incur substantial losses. We are aware of certain plant design and construction defects that may impede the reliable and continuous operation of our plants, and as a result, our plants have not consistently operated at full capacity. While we have addressed a number of these reliability issues, we anticipate that we will encounter a variety of other reliability and operational issues that will require us to invest in capital improvements at our plants. However, our limited liquidity may prevent us from financing all of these initiatives and, even if completed, we cannot assure you that our initiatives will be successful or can be implemented in a timely fashion or without an extended period of interruption to operations. As a result, the operation of our plants has been more costly or inefficient than we anticipated, and this may recur in the future. Any inability to operate our plants at full capacity on a consistent basis could have a negative impact on our cash flows and liquidity. We may also encounter other factors that could prevent us from conducting operations as expected, resulting in decreased capacity or interruptions in production, including shortages of workers or materials, design issues relating to improvements, construction and equipment cost escalation, transportation constraints, adverse weather, unforeseen difficulties or labor issues, or changes in political administrations at the federal, state or local levels that result in policy change towards ethanol in general or our plants in particular. Furthermore, local water, electricity and gas utilities may not be able to reliably supply the resources that our facilities will need or may not be able to supply them on acceptable terms. Our operations may be subject to significant interruption if any of our facilities experiences a major accident or is damaged by severe weather or other natural disasters. In addition, our operations may be subject to labor disruptions, unscheduled downtime or other operational hazards inherent in our industry. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover the potential operational hazards described above and we may not be able to renew our insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any cessation of operations due to any of the above factors would cause our sales to decrease significantly, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, access to and impacts on water supply, and the health and safety of our employees. Some of these laws and regulations require our facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can require expensive emissions testing and pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and facility shutdowns. We may not be in compliance with these laws, regulations or permits at all times or we may not have all permits required to 23 operate our business. We may be subject to legal actions brought by environmental advocacy groups and other parties for actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permits. In addition, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits. During the start-up and initial operation of our two plants, we occasionally failed to meet all of the parameters of our air and water discharge permits. We have addressed these issues primarily through adjustments to our equipment and operations, including significant upgrades to our water treatment system in Fairmont, Minnesota, and subsequent re-tests indicate that we are operating within our permitted limits. We have received Notices of Violations with respect to both sites from environmental regulators relating to these issues. In Nebraska, we have not been subject to any enforcement action. In Minnesota, we have resolved all of our outstanding enforcement issues through a Stipulated Agreement with the state, which resulted in us paying a fine of $285,000 during 2010. We do not anticipate a material adverse impact on our business or financial condition as a result of these prior violations. Our water permits are issued under the federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES), as administered by the states. Our Minnesota NPDES permit contains certain discharge variances from the water quality standards adopted by the U.S. EPA, which variances expire on July 31, 2011. As part of the Stipulated Agreement with the state of Minnesota, we are required either to implement additional alternative technologies to allow us to meet the water quality standards or implement alternative discharge solutions, such as a pipeline to a larger, more remote receiving stream. Each of these undertakings will require significant expenditures which we expect will represent a significant portion of our capital improvement budgets in Fairmont in 2011 and 2012. However, we have no assurances at this time that we will be able to meet the timelines for implementing the proposed solutions or, if we are able to identify a solution, that the necessary equipment, technology or construction will not be prohibitively expensive or economically feasible. Failure to meet the water quality standards on or after the July 31, 2011 expiration date, or as otherwise set forth in the Stipulated Agreement, may result in additional enforcement actions, including substantial fines, and may result in legal actions by private parties, any one or combination of which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. We may be adversely affected by pending climate change regulations. Ethanol production involves the emission of various airborne pollutants, including particulate, carbon dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, hazardous air pollutants and volatile organic compounds. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court classified carbon dioxide as an air pollutant under the Clean Air Act in a case seeking to require the EPA to regulate carbon dioxide in vehicle emissions. On February 3, 2010, the EPA released its proposed final regulations on the Renewable Fuels Standard, or RFS 2. We believe these final regulations grandfather our plants at their current operating capacity, though expansion of our plants will need to meet a threshold of a 20% reduction in “greenhouse gas,” or GHG, emissions from a 2005 baseline measurement to produce ethanol eligible for the RFS 2 mandate. In order to expand capacity at our plants, we may be required to obtain additional permits, install advanced technology such as corn oil extraction, or reduce drying of certain amounts of distillers grains. Separately, the California Air Resources Board has adopted a Low Carbon Fuel Standard requiring a 10% reduction in GHG emissions from transportation fuels by 2020. An Indirect Land Use Change component is included in this lifecycle GHG emissions calculation, though this standard is being challenged by numerous lawsuits. This proposed standard could have the effect in the future of rendering our ethanol unsaleable in the state of California and, if adopted in other states, elsewhere. 24 Risks relating to the ownership of our common stock The existing market for our common stock is illiquid, and we do not know whether a liquid trading market will develop. Although our common stock is listed on Nasdaq, the trading market is relatively illiquid. Upon completion of the Rights Offering and concurrent private placement, and after giving effect to the issuance of common stock to Cargill on February 15, 2011, there were approximately 96,646,727 shares of our common stock and 25,481,247 shares of our Class B common stock issued and outstanding, of which approximately 63% were held by certain of our “affiliates” and Cargill. As a result, there are relatively few shares in publicly traded hands, there are few institutional stockholders other than those controlled by certain of our affiliates and we do not receive a significant amount of analyst coverage. An illiquid market will limit your ability to resell shares of our common stock. Our common stock could be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is currently listed on The Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “BIOF.” The listing standards of The Nasdaq Global Market provide, among other things, that a company may be delisted if the bid price for its stock drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days. As of March 28, 2011, the closing bid price for our stock will have been below $1.00 for 15 consecutive business days. The closing bid price for our stock may remain below $1.00 for an additional 15 consecutive business days or, even if it does not, we cannot assure you that the bid price for our stock will not drop below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days in the future. If either were to happen, the Nasdaq staff could send us a notice of non-compliance in the form of a Nasdaq Staff Determination Letter. Even if we do not receive a Nasdaq Staff Determination Letter or cure our non-compliance within the grace period described below, we cannot assure you that the bid price for our stock will not drop below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days again. If we were to receive a Nasdaq Staff Determination Letter to this effect, we will have 180 days in which to satisfy the minimum bid price requirements for ten or more consecutive trading days. If we fail to comply with the listing standards, our common stock listing may be moved, in our discretion and subject to the satisfaction of certain listing requirements, including, without limitation, the payment of a listing fee, to the Nasdaq Capital Market, which is a lower tier market, or our common stock may be delisted and traded on the over-the-counter bulletin board network. Moving our listing to the Nasdaq Capital Market could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock. Following a move of our listing to the Nasdaq Capital Market, we would have an additional 180 day period in which to become compliant with the minimum bid requirements or face delisting. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and could significantly negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from Nasdaq could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile and could be subject to future fluctuations in response to a number of factors beyond our control. Some of these factors are: • our results of operations and the performance of our competitors; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who follow us or other companies in our industry; • changes in general economic conditions; 25 • changes in market prices for our products (ethanol and distillers grains) or for our raw materials (primarily corn and natural gas); • actions of certain of our affiliates, including sales of common stock by our Directors and executive officers; • actions by institutional investors trading in our stock; • disruption of our operations; • any major change in our management team; • other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors; and • U.S. and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. In recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause declines in the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company or its performance, and those fluctuations could materially reduce our common stock price. Certain large stockholders’ shares may be sold into the market in the future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly. As of December 31, 2010 we had outstanding approximately 25.5 million shares of common stock, excluding treasury shares, and 7.1 million shares of Class B common stock. Upon completion of the Rights Offering and concurrent private placement, and giving effect to the Cargill share issuance under the Cargill Letter Agreement, there were 95.8 million shares of common stock, excluding treasury shares, and 25.5 million shares of Class B common stock outstanding. Some of the shares of common stock were, when issued, “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. These shares, including those owned by our “affiliates,” have either become eligible for sale in the public market under Rule 144 or will become eligible for sale upon satisfaction of the holding period requirements of Rule 144, subject, in the case of shares held by affiliates, to volume limitations and other restrictions contained in Rule 144. In addition, shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time into shares of common stock and, once converted, become eligible for resale under Rule 144 subject to the holding period requirements and, in the case of shares held by affiliates, the volume restrictions of Rule 144. In addition, certain of these affiliates have the right to require us to register the resale of their shares. If holders sell substantial amounts of these shares, the price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Certain large stockholders own a significant percentage of our shares and exert significant influence over us. Their interests may not coincide with yours and they may make decisions with which you may disagree. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the holders of shares of our Class B common stock will be entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. Accordingly, upon completion of the Rights Offering and concurrent private placement, and after giving effect to the issuance of common stock to Cargill, as described elsewhere in this Annual Report, certain affiliates of Greenlight Capital, Inc., with respect to the Class B common stock and common stock held by them, and certain affiliates of Third Point LLC, with respect to the common stock held by them, respectively, controlled approximately 35.2% and 17.3% of the voting power of BioFuel Energy Corp. These large stockholders, acting together, could determine substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other stockholders. Accordingly, these stockholders could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that you would not approve or make decisions with which you may disagree. 26 We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have not paid any dividends since inception and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our available cash, if any, for use as working capital and for other general corporate purposes, including to service our debt and to fund the development and operation of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that the Board of Directors deems relevant. In addition, our bank facility imposes restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries that own and operate our Wood River and Fairmont plants to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which will restrict our ability to pay dividends. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Risks relating to our organizational structure Our only material asset is our interest in BioFuel Energy, LLC, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from BioFuel Energy, LLC to pay dividends, taxes and other expenses. BioFuel Energy Corp. is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of membership units in the LLC. BioFuel Energy Corp. has no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause the LLC to make distributions to its members in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable, if any, by such members. Our bank facility contains negative covenants, which limit the ability of our operating subsidiaries to declare or pay dividends or distributions. To the extent that BioFuel Energy Corp. needs funds, and the LLC is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulations, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds due, for example, to the restrictions in our bank facility that limit the ability of our operating subsidiaries to distribute funds, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially harmed. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be limited as a result of prior or future acquisitions of our common stock, including but not limited to the recently consummated Rights Offering and periodic exchanges of membership interests in the LLC for shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we reported federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $176.0 million, which will begin to expire if not used by December 31, 2028. For accounting purposes, a valuation allowance is required to reduce our potential deferred tax assets if it is determined that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of such assets will not be realized for any reason. Our financial statements currently provide a partial valuation allowance against our NOL carryforwards. Our ability to utilize our tax attributes, such as NOL carryforwards and tax credits (“Tax Attributes”), during future periods will depend in part on whether we have undergone an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). For this purpose, an ownership change generally occurs if, as of any “testing date” (as defined under Section 382 of the Code), our “5-percent shareholders” have collectively increased their ownership in our common stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the relevant testing period, which generally begins three years before each “testing date” transaction. In general, our 5-percent shareholders would include (i) any individual who owns 5% or more of our common stock and (ii) any “public group” that owns our common stock, in each case whether such shareholders own our common stock directly or indirectly through one or more higher tier entities that directly or indirectly own 5% or more of our common stock. A “public group” generally consists of any group of individuals each of whom directly or indirectly owns less than 5% of our common stock. An ownership change may therefore occur following substantial changes in the direct or indirect ownership of our outstanding stock by one or more 5-percent shareholders over this period. After an ownership change, Section 382 of the Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of our post-change taxable income that may be offset by our pre-change Tax Attributes. The limitation imposed by Section 382 for any post-change year is generally determined by multiplying the value of our common stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. Any unused annual 27 limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years. In addition, the limitation may be increased under certain circumstances by any “built-in gain” in our assets at the time of the ownership change. It is unclear whether all or a portion of our Tax Attributes are or will be subject to a limitation under Section 382 of the Code as a result of prior or future acquisitions of our common stock by 5-percent shareholders, including but not limited to the recently consummated Rights Offering, periodic exchanges of membership interests in the LLC for shares of our common stock and certain changes in the ownership of any entity that owns 5% or more of our common stock. If our Tax Attributes are not currently subject to limitation under Section 382 of the Code, our Board of Directors may take actions to impose transfer restrictions or other protective mechanisms, including the adoption of a “tax benefit preservation plan,” to reduce the likelihood of a future ownership change. Any such plan, if adopted, would be adopted on terms and conditions approved by our Board of Directors. Our ability to use our Tax Attributes will also depend on the amount of taxable income we generate in future periods. Even without regard to Section 382 of the Code, therefore, all or a portion of our Tax Attributes may expire before we generate sufficient taxable income to utilize them. We will be required to pay certain holders of membership interests in the LLC for a portion of the benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of tax basis step-ups we receive in connection with future exchanges of BioFuel Energy, LLC membership units for shares of our common stock. The membership units in the LLC held by members other than BioFuel Energy Corp. may be exchanged for shares of our common stock. The exchanges may result in increases in the tax basis of the assets of the LLC that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in tax basis may reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the IRS may challenge all or part of the tax basis increases, and a court could sustain such a challenge. At the current trading price, which was $0.86 as of March 22, 2011, we do not anticipate any material change in the tax basis of the LLC’s assets. We have entered into a tax benefit sharing agreement with certain holders of membership interests in the LLC that will provide for the payment by us to such holders of LLC membership interests of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of these increases in tax basis. The increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, and the amount and timing of our income. As a result of the size of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of the LLC attributable to our interest in the LLC, during the expected term of the tax benefit sharing agreement, we expect that the payments that we may make to these holders LLC membership interests could be substantial. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase, the holders of interests in the LLC will not reimburse us for any payments that may previously have been made under the tax benefit sharing agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances we could make payments to these holders of LLC membership interests under the tax benefit sharing agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under the tax benefit sharing agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income. Provisions in our charter documents and our organizational structure may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party or may reduce the value of your investment. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder may deem to be in his or her best interest. For example, our Board of Directors may determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. In addition, stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate Directors or to propose business to be considered at a meeting of stockholders and may not take action by written consent. Our corporate structure, which provides our historical LLC equity investors, through the shares of Class B common stock they will 28 hold, a number of votes equal to the number of shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of their membership units in the LLC, may also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a future takeover or change in control of our company. The existence of these provisions and this structure could also limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 29 