Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the more detailed description of our business and other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere, and the other information contained, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by the following: We depend primarily upon sales from a single product line and the absence of continued demand for our products would have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. In 2005 and 2006, we generated approximately 95% and 98% of our net sales, respectively, from our HEELYS-wheeled footwear and we expect to continue to depend upon HEELYS-wheeled footwear for substantially all of our net sales in the foreseeable future. Because we are dependent on a single line of products, factors such as changes in consumer preferences may have a disproportionately greater impact on us than if we offered multiple product categories. If consumer interest in HEELYS-wheeled footwear or wheeled sports activity products in general declines, we would likely experience a significant loss of sales and may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount, which would have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. If we are unable to enforce our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to sell products that are substantially similar to our products, which could adversely affect our sales and damage our brand image. We believe our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, issued and pending patents, trade dress and designs are valuable and integral to our success. The costs associated with obtaining and maintaining our intellectual property rights and protecting our HEELYS brand are significant. Further, we do not know whether our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents. Even if patents are issued in the future, we cannot predict how the patent claims will be construed and such patents may not provide us with the ability to prevent the development, manufacturing or marketing of infringing products. Enforcement of our patent and other intellectual property rights in the future may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. In addition, we may not be able to detect infringement of our intellectual property rights quickly or at all, and at times in the past we have not been, and in the future we may not be, successful combating counterfeit, infringing or knockoff products, thereby damaging our competitive position. For example, on many occasions, we have identified knockoff products sold by others that we believe may infringe upon our 12 intellectual property rights. Historically, knockoff products have been sold mainly in international markets, but recently we have identified an increasing number of knockoff products being sold domestically. Knockoff products often are sold under a brand name that is the same as or substantially similar to the HEELYS name. Knockoff and counterfeit products may continue to emerge, as others seek to trade on the goodwill of the HEELYS name and benefit from the consumer demand for our products. We may not be able to detect all knockoff and counterfeit products and may lose our competitive position in a given geographic market before we become aware of any such infringement. For example, our net sales in Asia decreased from $12.1 million in 2003 to $5.4 million in 2004, which we believe was primarily due to the presence of lower-priced counterfeit, knockoff and infringing products in certain Asian markets. To protect our HEELYS brand, we have already spent significant resources and may be required to spend significantly greater resources in the future to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in enforcing our intellectual property rights, sales of counterfeit, knockoff or infringing products by others could harm our HEELYS brand and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, the presence in the market of counterfeit, knockoff or infringing products of poor quality for even a short time period could have a detrimental impact on our HEELYS brand. We may not be able to obtain and maintain patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights protection in some foreign countries, which could result in us being unable to prevent others from using our HEELYS mark, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend upon the laws of the countries where our products are sold to protect our intellectual property. Intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in some countries because patent laws and standards of patentability vary internationally. Consequently, in certain foreign jurisdictions, we have elected not to apply for patents or trademark registrations. Further, patent and trademark protection may not be available in every country where our products are sold. While we generally apply for patents and trademarks in most countries where we intend to sell patented products, we may not accurately predict all of the countries where patent or trademark protection will ultimately be desirable. If we fail to timely file a patent or trademark application in any such country, we will likely be precluded from doing so at a later date. Failure to adequately pursue and enforce our patent and trademark rights could damage our HEELYS brand, enable others to compete with us and impair our ability to compete effectively. In some countries where we have sought patent protection, third parties have challenged the validity, enforceability and scope of our patent rights. For example, the validity of our Japanese patent was challenged in May 2004, resulting in the Japan Patent Office issuing an opinion in February 2006 that our Japanese patent is invalid. We filed a lawsuit with the Intellectual Property High Court in Japan in June 2006, and we filed a Request for Trial for Correction in the Japan Patent Office in September 2006 to attempt to overturn the prior opinion. These actions are still proceeding. In addition, a third party filed a cancellation application in July 2004 with the Taiwan Intellectual Property Office to cancel our issued patent in Taiwan, and this proceeding is still pending. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in these or similar proceedings. Our HEELYS brand, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to obtain and maintain intellectual property right protection in foreign countries where we derive a large amount of our net sales. 13 Because we are a consumer products company, if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand and trends in consumer preferences, our HEELYS brand, net sales, customer relationships and results of operations may be adversely affected. Demand for our products, and for consumer products in general, is subject to rapidly changing consumer demand and trends in consumer preferences. Therefore, our success depends upon our ability to: · identify, anticipate, understand and respond to these trends in a timely manner; · expand the number of styles of HEELYS-wheeled footwear we offer to broaden the appeal of our products to a wider range of consumers; and · introduce appealing new products and performance features on a timely basis. We generally must make decisions regarding product designs several months before our products are available for sale, and it can take us up to six months to achieve full production of certain models. Accordingly, at the time we have to make decisions that determine our inventory levels, we cannot be certain that our product offerings will be well received by consumers, in which case we may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products, we could have inventory shortages, which would result in lost sales, delays in shipments to retail customers and independent distributors, strains on our relationships with retail customers and independent distributors and diminished brand loyalty. Even if we introduce appealing new styles and products on a timely basis, we may set prices for our products too high to be successful. A decline in demand for our products, or any failure on our part to satisfy increased demand for our products, could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. We have significantly increased our sales and the scope of our operations over the past two years. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may experience difficulty in filling purchase orders, declines in product quality, increased costs or other operating challenges. We have: · transitioned from purchasing almost all of our footwear products from one independent manufacturer at December 31, 2005 to purchasing from a number of additional manufacturers in the second quarter of 2006; · increased the pairs of HEELYS-wheeled footwear sold from 697,000 pairs in 2004, to 1.4 million pairs in 2005 and to 6.2 million pairs in 2006; and · increased the number of our full-time employees from 19 at June 30, 2004 to 41 at December 31, 2006. We anticipate that continued growth of our operations will be required to satisfy increasing consumer demand and to avail ourselves of new market opportunities. The expanding scope of our business and growth in the number of our employees, customers and independent manufacturers have placed and will continue to place a significant strain on our management, information technology systems and other resources. To properly manage our growth, we need to hire additional employees, upgrade our existing financial and reporting systems, improve our business processes and controls and identify and develop relationships with additional independent manufacturers. We may also be required to expand our distribution facilities or add new facilities. Failure to effectively manage our growth could result in difficulty in distributing our products and filling purchase orders, declines in product quality or increased costs, any of which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. 14 Because we outsource all of our manufacturing to a small number of independent manufacturers, we may face challenges in maintaining a sufficient supply of products to meet demand for our products or experience interruptions in our supply chain. Any shortfall in the supply of our products may decrease our net sales and have an adverse impact on our customer relationships and results of operations. All of our products are produced by independent manufacturers with which we do not have long-term contracts. As such, any of them could unilaterally terminate its relationship with us or increase the prices it charges us at any time. Until May 2006, one independent manufacturer produced almost all of our HEELYS-wheeled footwear. Commencing in May 2006, when demand for our HEELYS-wheeled footwear products outstripped the capacity of this independent manufacturer, we used additional independent manufacturers to produce HEELYS-wheeled footwear. Although these additional manufacturers have enabled us to increase our monthly production capacity, we may be unable to fill a substantial number of orders placed by our customers on a timely basis. To expedite the delivery of past-due customer orders, we typically ship via air freight for which we pay higher shipping rates. During the second and third quarters of 2006 our inability to deliver customer orders on a timely basis resulted in delayed sales and higher shipping costs which caused us to miss certain internal financial targets. If we cannot procure sufficient quantities of HEELYS-wheeled footwear to meet customer demand in a timely manner, or if the quality of our products declines, customers may cancel orders, refuse shipments, negotiate for reduced purchase prices or ask us to pay extraordinary shipping costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships and operating results. Additionally, if any of our independent manufacturers fail or refuse to ship any orders for any reason, our business could be adversely affected. Our operations are dependent upon the strength of our relationships with our retail customers and independent distributors and their success in selling our products, and a small number of retail customers and independent distributors are responsible for a significant percentage of our net sales. Our success is dependent upon the willingness and ability of our retail customers to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as the success of our independent distributors in developing foreign markets for our products. For the year ended December 31, 2005, Big 5 Sporting Goods, Journeys and The Sports Authority were responsible for approximately 12.3%, 11.3% and 10.6% of our net sales, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2006, Journeys accounted for approximately 12.7% of our net sales. If any of these or our other significant retail customers or independent distributors were to experience financial difficulties, reduce the quantity of our products it sells or stop selling our products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our retail customers or independent distributors, and the loss or material reduction in their business with us could result in reduced sales of our products. Our retail customers and independent distributors generally purchase products from us on a purchase order basis and do not have long-term contracts with us. Consequently, with little or no notice and without penalty, our retail customers and independent distributors may terminate their relationship with us or materially reduce the level of their purchases of our products. If this were to occur with one or more retail customers or independent distributors who purchase significant quantities of our products, it may be difficult for us to establish substitute relationships in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our independent sales representatives for our domestic sales, and if our relationships with a material number of these representatives were terminated, it could result in reduced sales of our products. We sell substantially all of our products domestically through our network of 19 independent sales representatives. We rely on these independent sales representatives to provide new customer prospects 15 and market our products to our retail customers. Our independent sales representatives do not sell our products exclusively and may terminate their relationships with us at any time with limited notice. Our ability to maintain and increase our domestic sales depends in large part on our success in maintaining relationships with our independent sales representatives on commercially reasonable terms. Any failure to maintain and develop new satisfactory relationships with independent sales representatives, or any failure of our independent sales representatives to effectively market our products, could adversely affect our domestic sales. Our current information technology systems may be unable to support our growth, and planned improvements may be inadequate or may not be successfully implemented on a timely basis, which would adversely affect our ability to operate effectively. We expect to upgrade and implement new information technology systems to facilitate our growth, streamline our financial reporting and improve our internal controls. We have identified a number of significant deficiencies related to the security of our information technology systems that may affect the timeliness and accuracy of recording transactions and which could become material weaknesses in future periods if not remedied. The deficiencies include our need to further enhance access privileges and password settings and provide for more frequent monitoring of production critical processes. In addition, we may experience difficulties in transitioning to new or upgraded systems, including the loss of data and diminished productivity as our personnel become familiar with our new systems. As we grow and our business needs change, we could experience difficulties associated with systems transitions. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information technology systems or experience system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our information technology systems to respond to changes in our business, our ability to operate effectively could be adversely affected. Our business could suffer if our independent manufacturers violate legal requirements or fail to conform to generally accepted ethical standards. We expect our independent manufacturers to comply with applicable legal requirements and generally accepted ethical standards for working conditions and other matters. However, we do not control our independent manufacturers or their business practices. If any of our manufacturers were to use forced or indentured labor or child labor, fail to pay compensation in accordance with local law, fail to operate in compliance with local safety regulations or diverge from other applicable legal requirements or business practices generally accepted as ethical, we would take appropriate action, which could result in an interruption in our product supply. In addition, we could suffer negative publicity and damage to our reputation and the value of our HEELYS brand, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. If our independent manufacturers are unable to obtain raw materials, our costs could increase or the delivery of our products could be delayed, which could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. The production capacity of our independent manufacturers is dependent, in part, upon the availability of raw materials. Our manufacturers may experience shortages of raw materials, which could result in increased costs to us or delays in deliveries of our products from our manufacturers. As a result, we could experience cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in our sales prices and profit margins, any of which could harm our net sales and results of operations. 16 Because our products are manufactured in Asia and a portion of our sales activities occur outside of the United States, we are subject to international business, political, operational, financial and economic risks that could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. Conducting business internationally entails numerous risks which could interrupt or otherwise adversely affect our business, including: · increased transportation costs; · delays and other logistical problems relating to the transportation of goods shipped by ocean freight; · work stoppages, strikes, lockouts or increased security concerns at seaports; · tariffs, import and export controls and other barriers, such as quotas and local content rules; · restrictions on the transfer of funds; · changing economic conditions; · changes in governmental policies and regulations; · limitations on the level of intellectual property protections; · poor or unstable infrastructure of certain foreign countries; · trade sanctions, political unrest, terrorism, war, epidemics and pandemics; · expropriation and nationalization; and · difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions. These factors and the failure to effectively respond to them could result in, among other things, poor quality in our products, product shortages, delivery delays, decreased net sales and increased costs. We are subject to foreign exchange risk, and if the U.S. dollar significantly weakens compared to the currency in the markets where our products are produced, our manufacturers could increase the prices they charge us for our products, which could reduce our profitability. We pay for our products and we pay commissions to our independent sourcing agent in U.S. dollars, and our independent distributors pay us in U.S. dollars. International sales accounted for approximately 35.1% of our net sales in 2004, 16.8% of our net sales in 2005 and 14.3% of our net sales in 2006. We do not engage in any foreign currency hedging transactions. If the U.S. dollar strengthens compared to the currency in the foreign markets where our products are sold, our products will be more expensive in those markets making them less attractive to consumers. If the U.S. dollar significantly weakens compared to the currency in the foreign markets where our products are produced, our manufacturers could increase the prices they charge us for our products, which could reduce our profitability. There can be no assurance that we can effectively mitigate our foreign exchange risk. HEELYS-wheeled footwear could become subject to import duties in the United States, and if we cannot increase our prices to compensate for such duties, it could reduce our profitability. HEELYS-wheeled footwear is currently classified by U.S. Customs and Border Protection as a skate, and as such we do not pay import duties to the United States. This customs classification can be changed at any time and, although we would vigorously oppose any proposed change, there can be no assurance that we would prevail. If the classification for HEELYS-wheeled footwear changed and HEELYS-wheeled 17 footwear became subject to an import duty, it might be difficult to increase our prices to compensate for any such duty, which could reduce our profitability. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and such claims may be costly to defend, may require us to pay licensing fees, damages or other amounts and may prevent or limit the manufacture, marketing or sale of our products. Third parties may successfully claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. While we do not believe that any of our products infringe valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology or products. For example, because many patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed immediately after they are filed, we could adopt technology without knowledge of a pending patent application, which technology would infringe a third-party patent once that patent is issued. Our competitors in both the United States and foreign countries may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for or obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make, market or sell our products. Although we may conduct our own independent review of patents issued to certain third parties, we cannot assure you that we will be aware of all pre-existing technology that may subject us to patent litigation. If we are forced to defend against infringement claims, whether or not such claims are resolved in our favor, we could encounter expensive and time-consuming litigation which could divert the attention of our management and other key personnel from our business operations. Furthermore, if we are found to be infringing intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay licensing fees or damages. In addition, if we are not able to obtain license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all, we may be prevented from manufacturing, marketing or selling our products. As a result, our net sales could be significantly reduced and our cost of sales could be significantly increased, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on our management team and other personnel, and the failure to attract and retain such individuals could adversely affect our operations. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain Michael G. Staffaroni, Michael W. Hessong, Charles D. Beery and Patrick F. Hamner and to attract and retain other qualified managerial personnel. Our management and other employees can terminate their employment with us at any time, and we do not maintain key person life insurance. Our inability to attract or retain qualified employees, or the loss of any key employee, could harm our business and results of operations. We recently hired a Vice President—Marketing, a Vice President—Design and Development and a Vice President—Sourcing. Our failure to successfully integrate any of these individuals into our management team could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to product liability, warranty and recall claims and our insurance coverage may not cover such claims, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and adversely affect our business. Due to the inherent risk of injury related to the use of our products, our business exposes us to claims for product liability and warranty claims if our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected, or the use of our products results or is alleged to result in personal injury, disability or death. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully defend or settle the product liability claims and lawsuits to which we are and in the future may be subject. We attach warning labels to our products and packaging relating to safe usage and the risk of injury. However, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the content of the warnings, the placement of them or both may be considered inadequate by courts, exposing us to liability. We cannot be certain that our safety warning labels are adequate. Product liability claims could result in us having to expend 18 significant time and expense to defend these claims and to pay, if necessary, settlement amounts or damages, which could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, claims that use of our products resulted in an injury, disability or death could cause our HEELYS brand image and operating performance to suffer by damaging our reputation and prospects and by diverting the time and attention of our management, even if we are not at fault. There can be no assurance that our product liability insurance coverage will be adequate, that our insurers will be financially viable when payment of a claim is required or that we will be able to obtain such insurance in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. If any of our products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to recall that product. Any product recall could cause us to incur substantial cost, and irreparably harm our relationships with our customers, which could adversely affect our business. Additional bans on the use of our HEELYS-wheeled footwear due to public safety and liability concerns could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. Various places of business and other institutions, such as shopping malls and schools, have imposed bans on the use of our HEELYS-wheeled footwear due to public safety and liability concerns. If the number of businesses and other institutions instituting such bans increases in the future, consumers could find our HEELYS-wheeled footwear less appealing, which could adversely affect our net sales and result of operations. Expanding our distribution to mass merchants could have a material adverse effect on our gross margin, brand image and results of operations. We sell our products to sporting goods retailers, specialty apparel and footwear retailers and select department stores in an effort to maintain a high-quality image for our HEELYS brand and premium price points for our products. Although we do not currently anticipate distributing to mass merchants, if we choose to do so in the future it could have a material adverse effect on our gross margin and could negatively affect our HEELYS brand image and our reputation with consumers, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly variations in our net sales and net income, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, substantial seasonal and quarterly variations in our net sales and net income. These variations are primarily related to increased sales of our products during the holiday selling season. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including, among other things, the timing of holidays and advertising initiatives and changes in our product mix. In addition, variations in weather conditions may significantly affect our results of operations. As a result of these seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our operating results between different quarters within a single year are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. Any seasonal or quarterly fluctuations that we report in the future may differ from the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. 19 As a relatively young consumer products company, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could have a negative impact on our sales and our business. We compete with companies that sell to young consumers in several different product markets, including footwear, sporting goods and recreational products. These markets are intensely competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, distribution and manufacturing resources than we do, as well as greater brand awareness in the markets in which they operate. We also compete with counterfeit, knockoff and infringing products, which are often sold at lower prices. If we fail to remain competitive with respect to the quality, design, price and timely delivery of products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may have difficulty identifying and successfully integrating acquisitions into our business and any acquisitions we make could result in adverse consequences. We may make acquisitions of complementary companies and products. The pursuit of acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur significant expenses identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. We have limited experience acquiring other businesses and may not be able to successfully integrate any acquired operations with our business or effectively manage the combined business following an acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition due to any of the following factors: · unanticipated costs associated with making the acquisition and operating the acquired business; · harm to our business relationships with independent manufacturers, retail customers and independent distributors; · loss of key employees of the acquired business; or · difficulties associated with entering product categories or markets in which we have little or no prior experience. If we experience any of the difficulties noted above, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Volatility in the trading price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares of our common stock at prices equal to or greater than your purchase price. The trading price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including: · our operating and financial performance and prospects; · our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; · the public’s reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; · changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry; · strategic actions by us or our competitors; · new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; 20 · changes in general economic conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including such changes resulting from war or incidents of terrorism; and · sales of our common stock by us or members of our management team. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the trading price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently occur irrespective of the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the trading price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our business. Existing stockholders significantly influence our corporate governance. As of December 31, 2006 our executive officers, key employees, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 71% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, Capital Southwest Venture Corporation, or “CSVC,” which owns approximately 34.5% of our common stock, has the contractual right to designate (i) two nominees for director to be included in management’s slate of director nominees, so long as it owns at least 15% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and (ii) one such nominee so long as it owns at least 10%, but less than 15%, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, through its designees, CSVC may significantly influence our corporate governance. Our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the value of an investment in our common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws and Delaware corporate law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management. Among other things, these provisions: · authorize our board of directors, without prior stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with rights, privileges and preferences, including voting rights, senior to those of our common stock; · prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; · establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and · impose restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions could discourage proxy contests, make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions and may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. Any delay or prevention of a change in control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could deprive you of the opportunity to sell your common stock at a price in excess of the prevailing trading price and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. 21 As a public company, we will be required to meet periodic reporting requirements under SEC rules and regulations. Complying with federal securities laws as a public company is expensive and we will incur significant time and expense enhancing, documenting, testing and certifying our internal control over financial reporting. Any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our common stock. SEC rules require that, as a publicly traded company, we file periodic reports containing our financial statements within a specified time following the completion of quarterly and annual periods. Prior to the completion of our initial public offering in December 2006, we were not required to comply with SEC requirements to have our financial statements completed and reviewed or audited within a specified time and, as such, we may experience difficulty in meeting the SEC’s reporting requirements. Any failure by us to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner could harm our reputation and reduce the trading price of our common stock. As a public company we will incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as compliance with other SEC and Nasdaq rules, will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Furthermore, SEC rules require that our chief executive officer and chief financial officer periodically certify the existence and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will be required, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending on December 31, 2007, to attest to our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. This process generally requires significant documentation of policies, procedures and systems, review of that documentation by our internal accounting staff and our outside auditors and testing of our internal control over financial reporting by our internal accounting staff and our outside independent registered public accounting firm. Documentation and testing of our internal controls, which we have not undertaken in the past, will involve considerable time and expense, may strain our internal resources and have an adverse impact on our operating costs. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which would have to be remediated to satisfy the SEC rules for certification of our internal control over financial reporting. As a consequence, we may have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. The existence of a material weakness would preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, and would preclude our independent auditors from issuing an unqualified opinion that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting it may negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 