ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as other information contained in this Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. The risks described below are those that we believe are the material risks we face. Any of these risks could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to our financial condition and the default of our operating subsidiaries under their Senior Debt Facility Narrow commodity margins have resulted in decreased liquidity and have caused our operating subsidiaries to default on their senior secured debt, which could result in limited or no residual value to our shareholders. We are a holding company with no operations of our own, and are the sole managing member of BioFuel Energy, LLC (the “LLC”), which is itself a holding company and indirectly owns all of our operating assets. The Company’s ethanol plants are owned and operated by the operating subsidiaries the LLC (the “Operating Subsidiaries”). Those Operating Subsidiaries are party to a Credit Agreement (the “Senior Debt Facility”) with a group of lenders, for which First National Bank of Omaha acts as Administrative Agent, and substantially all of the assets of the Operating Subsidiaries are pledged as collateral under the Senior Debt Facility. Neither the Company nor the LLC is a party, either as borrower or guarantor, under the Senior Debt Facility, and none of their respective assets, other than the LLC interests in the Operating Subsidiaries themselves, are pledged as collateral under the Senior Debt Facility. As of December 31, 2012, the Operating Subsidiaries had $170.5 million of principal indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Debt Facility Our financial results and cash flows are subject to wide and unpredictable fluctuations due to changes in commodity prices, specifically, the price of our main commodity input, corn, relative to the price of our main commodity product, ethanol, expressed on a per gallon equivalent basis, which is known in the industry as the “crush spread.” The price of our main co-product, distillers grain, is likewise subject to wide, unpredictable fluctuations, typically in conjunction with changes in the price of corn. The prices of these commodities are volatile and beyond our control. As a result of the volatility of the prices for these and other items, our results fluctuate substantially and in ways that are largely beyond our control. As shown in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company incurred a net loss of $46.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2012, due to narrow commodity margins. Narrow commodity margins present a significant risk to our cash flows and liquidity. We have had, and continue to have, limited liquidity, with $9.3 million of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2012, of which $8.6 million was held at the LLC and $0.7 million was held at the Operating Subsidiaries and subject to the lenders’ liens under the Senior Debt Facility. Due to our limited and declining liquidity, our Board of Directors determined that, in order to preserve cash at the LLC, the Operating Subsidiaries would not make the regularly-scheduled payments of principal and interest that were due under the outstanding Senior Debt Facility on September 28, 2012, in an aggregate amount of $3.6 million. As a result, the Operating Subsidiaries received a Notice of Default from First National Bank of Omaha, as Administrative Agent for the lenders under the Senior Debt Facility. Since the initial default, the Operating Subsidiaries have not made any of the regularly-scheduled principal and interest payments, which through December 31, 2012 totaled $8.2 million. On November 5, 2012, the Operating Subsidiaries and the lenders under the Senior Debt Facility entered into a Forbearance Agreement whereby the lenders agreed to forbear from exercising their remedies until November 15, 2012. Although the Forbearance Agreement expired on November 15, 2012 and has not been extended, the Company continues to engage in active and continuing discussions with the lenders and their advisors. In conjunction with our ongoing discussions with the lenders under the Senior Debt Facility, in March 2013 the Company engaged a financial adviser to assist it with an assessment of its strategic alternatives. These alternatives could include, but are not limited to, a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Operating Subsidiaries, which comprise substantially all of the assets of the Company other than cash on hand. The lenders under the Senior Debt Facility have indicated that they are willing to provide the Company with a grace period until July 30, 2013 to allow us to pursue one or more strategic alternatives. This grace period would be subject to the achievement of certain milestones, and could be extended at the sole discretion of the Administrative Agent under the Senior Debt Facility. The Company expects to enter into a formal agreement to reflect the foregoing as soon as reasonably practicable. In the event of a sale of one or both of our ethanol plants, the proceeds of such sale would first be applied to repay all or a portion of the outstanding indebtedness under the Senior Debt Facility. Residual proceeds after satisfying the senior indebtedness, if any, would accrue to the Company. Any such sale would also most likely require the consent of the lenders under the Senior Debt Facility. The Company, on behalf of the Operating Subsidiaries, has also been engaged in separate discussions with the lenders under the Senior Debt Facility regarding a consensual resolution of the default. It is likely that any such agreement with the lenders will entail the transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Operating Subsidiaries in satisfaction of all of the outstanding indebtedness under the Senior Debt Facility. To that end, our Board of Directors has approved in principle our proceeding with such a transaction in the event the Company is unable to achieve an alternative transaction. We cannot assure you, however, that we will reach agreement with our lenders with respect to any such transaction, or achieve any other transaction, which could also include a capital contribution by the Company of its cash on hand to the Operating Subsidiaries, additional loans, a long-term forbearance or restructuring under the Senior Debt Facility, some combination of the foregoing, or another transaction in a form yet to be determined. Although the Company intends to diligently explore and pursue any number of strategic alternatives, we cannot assure you that it will be able to do so on terms acceptable to the Company or to the lenders under the Senior Debt Facility, if at all. In addition, in either the case of a transfer of the assets of the Operating Subsidiaries to the lenders under the Senior Debt Facility or a sale of one or both of our plants, as discussed above, we cannot assure you as to what value, if any, may be derived for shareholders of the Company from such transfer or sale. The lenders under the Senior Debt Facility could also elect to exercise their remedies under the Senior Debt Facility and take possession of their collateral, which could require us to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The consolidated financial statements that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern; however, the default of our Operating Subsidiaries under the Senior Debt Facility, the cessation of operations at the Fairmont ethanol facility, our limited liquidity and the continued volatile crush spread all raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to do so. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classifications of liabilities that may result should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. 12 Our ability to generate cash flow and to service the debt of our operating subsidiaries is chiefly determined by changes in commodity prices that are outside of our control. Our financial results and cash flows are subject to wide and unpredictable fluctuations in the price of corn relative to the price of ethanol, or crush spread. The prices of these commodities are volatile and beyond our control. For example, from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2012, spot corn prices on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) ranged from $5.56 to $8.31 per bushel, while CBOT ethanol prices ranged from $1.97 to $3.07 per gallon during the same period. However, the volatility in corn prices and the volatility in ethanol prices are not necessarily correlated, and as a result, the crush spread, as measured by CBOT prices, and an assumed yield of 2.8 gallons of ethanol per bushel of corn fluctuated widely throughout 2011, ranging from ($0.11) per gallon to $0.60 per gallon, and during 2012, ranging from ($0.42) per gallon to $0.03 per gallon. The actual commodity margins we realize may not be the same as the crush spreads reflected by CBOT market prices as a result of various factors, including differences in geographic basis paid for corn, varying ethanol sales prices in different markets and the timing differential between when we purchase corn and when we sell our products. As a result of the volatility of the prices for these and other items, our results fluctuate substantially and in ways that are largely beyond our control. As reported in the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere with this Annual Report, we reported a net loss of $46.3 million and $10.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. During each of these years crush spreads fluctuated significantly. Narrow commodity margins also present a significant risk to our cash flows and liquidity. We have had, and continue to have limited liquidity, with $9.3 million of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2012, of which $8.6 million was held at the LLC and $0.7 million was held at the Operating Subsidiaries and subject to the lenders’ liens under the Senior Debt Facility. As described above, our Operating Subsidiaries defaulted on their scheduled payments of principal and interest in September 2012, and remain in default. Drought conditions in the American Midwest significantly impacted the 2012 corn crop and caused a significant reduction in the corn yield. This led to an increase in the price of corn and a corresponding narrowing in the crush spread as ethanol prices did not rise sufficiently with rising corn prices, due to an oversupply of ethanol. As a result, in September 2012 the Company decided to idle its Fairmont facility until the crush spread improved. Due to continued narrow crush spreads, in February 2013 we reduced staffing at the Fairmont facility and expect the Fairmont facility to remain idle until the 2013 harvest season. In the event crush spreads narrow further, we may choose to curtail operations at our Wood River facility or idle the facility and cease operations altogether until such time as crush spreads improve. We expect fluctuations in the crush spread to continue. Any future reduction in the crush spread may cause our operating margins to deteriorate further, resulting in an impairment charge in addition to causing the consequences described above. Since we commenced operations, we have from time to time entered into derivative financial instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and option contracts with the objective of limiting our exposure to changes in commodities prices. However, we are currently unable to engage in such hedging activities due to our lack of financial resources, and we may not have the financial resources to conduct any of these hedging activities in the future. In addition, if geographic basis differentials are not hedged, they could cause our hedging programs to be ineffective or less effective than anticipated. 13 Virtually all of our assets are pledged to secure the senior secured debt of our operating subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2012, our Operating Subsidiaries had $170.5 million of principal indebtedness outstanding under our Senior Debt Facility. Our ability to make payments on the Senior Debt Facility depends on our ability to generate cash from our operations. Our ability to generate cash from operations is subject, in large part, to our crush spread as well as general economic, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors and other factors that are beyond our control. We have been unable to consistently generate positive cash flow, mostly due to the narrow crush spreads we have experienced. This substantial amount of debt has had the following impacts on our operations and financial condition: ·requiring us to dedicate substantially all of our cash flow from operations (after the payment of operating expenses) to payments with respect to our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate expenditures; ·restricting our ability to take advantage of strategic opportunities; ·limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, competition or changes in our business or industry; ·limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; ·increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; ·restricting our ability to expand or upgrade our current facilities, or explore a variety of business opportunities; and ·placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt or greater financial resources. We have had, and continue to have, limited liquidity, with $9.3 million of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2012, of which $8.6 million was held at the LLC and $0.7 million was held at the Operating Subsidiaries and subject to the lenders’ liens under the Senior Debt Facility. As described above, our Operating Subsidiaries defaulted on their scheduled payments of principal and interest in September 2012, and remain in default, which could force us to seek relief from creditors through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Because the debt under our Senior Debt Facility subjects substantially all of our assets to liens, there may be no assets left for stockholders in the event of a liquidation. In the event of a foreclosure on all or substantially all of our assets, we may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. The terms of the Senior Debt Facility include customary events of default and covenants that limit the applicable subsidiaries from taking certain actions without obtaining the consent of the lenders. In particular, our Senior Debt Facility places significant restrictions on the ability of those subsidiaries to distribute cash to the LLC, which limits our ability to use cash generated by those subsidiaries for other purposes. In addition, the Senior Debt Facility restricts those subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness. Under our Senior Debt Facility, if Cargill admits in writing its inability to, or is generally unable to, pay its debts as such debts become due, we will be deemed to be in default. In addition, should either of our subsidiaries that are borrowers under the Senior Debt Facility admit in writing its inability to, or is generally unable to, pay its debts as such debts become due, we will be deemed to be in default. There may be no viable strategic alternative available to us that would preclude the lenders under the Senior Debt Facility from foreclosing on our assets. In conjunction with our ongoing discussions with the lenders under the Senior Debt Facility, in March 2013 the Company hired a financial adviser to assist it with an assessment of its strategic alternatives. These alternatives could include, but are not limited to, a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Operating Subsidiaries, which comprise substantially all of the assets of the Company other than cash on hand. Any such sale would most likely require the consent of the lenders under the Senior Debt Facility. In addition, as discussed above, the proceeds of any such sale would first be applied to repay all or a portion of the outstanding indebtedness under the Senior Debt Facility. As a result, there may be little to no value derived for shareholders of the Company resulting from such sale. Although the Company intends to diligently explore and pursue any number of strategic alternatives, there can be no assurances that it will be able to do so on terms acceptable to the Company or to the lenders under the Senior Debt Facility, if at all. 14 Risks relating to our business and industry The demand for ethanol is highly dependent on the continued implementation of the Renewable Fuel Standard, or RFS, which is uncertain. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 and the Energy Policy Act of 2005, established minimum nationwide levels of renewable fuels — ethanol, biodiesel or any other liquid fuel produced from biomass or biogas — to be blended with gasoline. The legislation also included provisions for trading of credits for use of renewable fuels and authorized potential reductions in the RFS minimum by action of a governmental administrator. The rules for implementation of the RFS and the energy bill have been in effect since September 2007, but the ultimate effects of these rules on the ethanol industry remain uncertain. For example, in 2011 and 2012, the U.S. EPA, under the statutory authority provided by the 2005 Act, granted waivers to the refining industry setting the cellulosic component of the advanced biofuel RFS due to the lack of availability of cellulosic biofuels on a commercial scale. In addition, the traditional (corn-based) ethanol provisions in the 2007 Act and 2005 Act may be adversely affected by the enactment of future legislation. Ethanol critics frequently cite the purported effect on international food prices from redirecting corn supplies from international food markets to domestic fuel markets. Certain industry associations and other interest groups, including the American Petroleum Institute, seek the repeal of the RFS. Legislation to modify or eliminate RFS has been introduced in the United States Congress from time to time. The RFS mandate for increasing renewable fuel consumption through time may come to be viewed as impractical and/or may become associated with increasing compliance costs that result in increased political pressure for the repeal of RFS. Should public support for ethanol erode, it is possible that these federal mandates will lose political support thereby severely curtailing the demand for ethanol, if the RFS were reduced or eliminated. Refineries, for example, may elect to use replacement additives other than ethanol, such as iso-octane, iso-octene and alkylate. Such reduction in demand would likely result in reduced ethanol prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our financial condition. We are currently limited in our ability to hedge against fluctuations in commodity prices and may be unable to do so in the future, which further exposes us to commodity price risk. Since we have commenced operations, we have from time to time entered into derivative financial instruments such as futures contracts, swaps and option contracts with the objective of limiting our exposure to changes in commodities prices. However, we are currently able to engage in such hedging activities only on a limited basis due to our lack of financial resources, and we may not have the financial resources to conduct hedging activities in the future. In addition, ethanol futures have historically traded with an inverted price progression, or “strip,” whereby outer month contracts are priced at lower prices than spot or near-month contracts. In contrast, corn futures historically have traded such that outer months have higher prices than near or spot months. As a result, even under market conditions in which we realize positive margins at current (spot) prices we may not be able to lock in such margins for future production. Furthermore, because of the lack of a sufficiently established futures market or established markets for future physical delivery of ethanol, we may not be able to price a material amount of our future production so as to permit us to hedge a material portion of our commodities price risks. Our results and liquidity may be adversely affected by future hedging transactions and other strategies. Although our ability to do so is presently limited due to limited financial resources, we may in the future enter into contracts to sell a portion of our ethanol and co-product production or to purchase a portion of our corn or natural gas requirements on a forward basis to offset some of the effects of volatility of ethanol prices and costs of commodities. From time to time, we may also engage in other hedging transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts for corn, ethanol and natural gas. We may also hedge against changes in corn oil prices by means of heating oil futures contracts. The financial statement impact of these activities will depend upon, among other things, the prices involved, changes in the underlying market price and our ability to sell sufficient products to use all of the corn and natural gas for which we have futures contracts or our ability to sell excess corn or natural gas purchased in hedging transactions. Hedging arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or, in the case of exchange-traded contracts, where there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual prices paid or received by us. Although we will attempt to link our hedging activities to sales and production plans and pricing activities, such hedging activities can themselves result in losses. Hedging activities can result in losses when a position is purchased in a declining market or a position is sold in a rising market. This risk can be increased in highly volatile conditions such as those recently experienced in corn and other commodities futures markets. A hedge position is often settled when the physical commodity is either purchased (corn and natural gas) or sold (ethanol or distillers grain). In the interim, we are and may continue to be subject to the risk of margin calls and other demands on our financial resources arising from hedging activities. We have experienced hedging losses in the past and we may experience hedging losses again in the future. We may also vary the amount of hedging or other price mitigation strategies we undertake, and we may choose not to engage in hedging transactions at all. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by increases in the price of corn or natural gas or decreases in the price of ethanol. In addition, our significant indebtedness and debt service requirements increase the effect of changes in commodities prices on our cash flow, and may limit our ability to sustain our operations in the future. 15 The Company has adopted a risk management policy which is intended to provide additional, formal oversight over the hedging activities of the LLC and the operating subsidiaries of the LLC. We cannot assure you, however, that this policy will prevent or mitigate future hedging losses. Increased acceptance of ethanol as a fuel and construction of additional ethanol production plants could lead to shortages of availability and increases in the price of corn. The growth of the ethanol industry has led to significantly greater demand for corn. Cargill, which supplies corn for our plants, may have difficulty from time to time in sourcing corn on economical terms, due to supply shortages or elevated market prices. Any supply shortage could require us to suspend operations until corn becomes available on economical terms. Suspension of operations would materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, the price we pay for corn could increase if another ethanol production facility were built in the same general vicinity, if we expand one of our production facilities or based on market conditions. One of our competitors has constructed a large scale ethanol production plant approximately six miles from our Fairmont site, near Welcome, Minnesota. Two plants in such close proximity could lead to increases in the price of corn or shortages of availability of corn in the area. In addition, the price of corn increased significantly over the course of 2012, as drought conditions in the American Midwest reduced crop yields. We believe that this increase in corn prices is attributable in part to the increased demand from new ethanol production capacity. Additionally, corn supplies for our plants are subject to local supply-and-demand factors including the impacts of relatively small-scale weather events and competing uses. We cannot assure you that the price of corn will not rise significantly in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Excess production capacity in our industry may result in over-supply of ethanol which could adversely affect our business. According to the Renewable Fuels Association (the “RFA”), a trade group, domestic ethanol production capacity has increased from approximately 1.8 billion gallons per year (Bgpy) in 2001, to an estimated 14.8 Bgpy at the end of 2012, while, according to the RFA, total U.S. domestic ethanol production was approximately 13.3 billion gallons. As a result, the ethanol industry faces the risk of excess capacity. In a manufacturing industry with excess capacity, producers have an incentive to continue manufacturing products as long as the price of the product exceeds the marginal cost of production (i.e., the cost of producing only the next unit, without regard to interest, overhead or other fixed costs). Excess ethanol production capacity also may result from decreases in the demand for ethanol, which could result from a number of factors, including regulatory developments and reduced gasoline consumption in the United States. Reduced gasoline consumption could occur as a result of a decline in general economic conditions, as a result of increased prices for gasoline or crude oil, which could cause businesses and consumers to reduce driving or acquire vehicles with more favorable gasoline mileage, or as a result of technological advances, such as the commercialization of electric or plug-in hybrid vehicles or hydrogen fuel-cells, which could supplant gasoline-powered engines. There are a number of governmental initiatives designed to reduce gasoline consumption, including tax credits for hybrid vehicles and consumer education programs. According to preliminary data published by the EIA, motor fuel consumption in the United States, which includes ethanol blended with gasoline, was approximately 133.7 billion gallons in 2012, little changed from the prior year. Management believes that this moderation in overall motor fuel consumption has also contributed to declining margins for ethanol producers. 16 If there is excess capacity in our industry, and it continues to outstrip demand for a significant period of time, the market price of ethanol could remain at a level that is inadequate to generate sufficient cash flow to cover costs, which could result in an impairment charge, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and which could render us unable to resume debt service payments or cause us to cease operating altogether. Competition for qualified personnel in the ethanol industry is intense, and we may not be able to retain qualified personnel to operate our ethanol plants. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain competent personnel. For each of our plants, we must hire and retain qualified managers, engineers and operations and other personnel, which can be challenging in a rural community. Competition for both managers and plant employees in the ethanol industry can be intense. Although we have hired the personnel necessary to operate our plants, we may not be able to maintain or retain qualified personnel. If we are unable to hire and maintain or retain productive and competent personnel, our strategy may be adversely affected and we may not be able to efficiently operate our ethanol plants as planned. Hiring qualified personnel may prove more difficult or expensive following the February 2013 staffing reduction at our Fairmont plant. We are dependent upon our officers for management and direction, and the loss of any of these persons could adversely affect our operations and results. We are dependent upon the diligence and skill of our senior management team for implementation of our proposed strategy and execution of our business plan, and our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of our officers or other employees. The loss of any of our officers could delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We are dependent on our commercial relationship with Cargill and subject to various risks associated with this relationship. Our operating results may suffer if Cargill does not perform its obligations under our contracts. We have entered into an extensive commercial relationship with Cargill and are largely dependent on Cargill for the success of our business. This relationship includes long-term marketing agreements with Cargill, under which Cargill has agreed to market and distribute 100% of the ethanol produced at our Wood River and Fairmont production plants. We have also entered into corn supply agreements with Cargill, under which Cargill supplies 100% of the corn for our Wood River and Fairmont plants. The success of our business depends on Cargill’s ability to provide our production plants with the required corn supply in a cost-effective manner and to market and distribute our ethanol products successfully. If Cargill defaults on payments owed to us, fails to perform any of its responsibilities or does not perform its responsibilities as effectively as we expect them to under our agreements, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Cargill may terminate its arrangements with us in the event that certain parties acquire 30% or more of our common stock or the power to elect a majority of the Board. Cargill has the right to terminate its arrangements with us for any or all of our facilities if any of five identified parties or their affiliates acquires 30% or more of our common stock or the power to elect a majority of our board of directors. Cargill has designated five parties, each of which is currently engaged primarily in the agricultural commodities business, and it has the right to annually update this list of identified parties, so long as the list does not exceed five entities and the affiliates of such entities. The five parties currently identified by Cargill are Archer Daniels Midland Company, CHS Inc., Tate & Lyle PLC, The Scoular Company, and Bunge Limited. Cargill’s termination right may have the effect of deferring, delaying or discouraging transactions with these parties and their affiliates that might otherwise be beneficial to us. If Cargill were to terminate any of our goods and services agreements, it would have a significant negative impact on our business and we would be unable to continue our operations at each affected facility until alternative arrangements were made. If we were required to make alternative arrangements, we may not be able to make such arrangements or, if we are able to make such arrangements, they may not be on terms as favorable as our agreements with Cargill. We currently have no agreements or structure in place that would prohibit any of the parties identified by Cargill from acquiring 30% or more of our common stock and we do not expect to have any such agreements or structures in the future. However, we have no expectation that any of these parties would have an interest in acquiring shares of our common stock. We monitor Schedule 13D filings so that we will be informed of any parties accumulating ownership of our stock. If any identified party accumulates a significant amount of stock, our board of directors will address the matter at that time consistent with its fiduciary duties under applicable law. 17 If we do not meet certain quality and quantity standards under our marketing agreements with Cargill, our results of operations may be adversely affected. If our ethanol does not meet certain quality standards, Cargill may reject our products or accept our products and decrease the purchase price to reflect the inferior quality. If we fail to produce a sufficient amount of ethanol and, as a result, Cargill is required to purchase replacement ethanol from third parties at a higher purchase price to meet sale commitments, we must pay Cargill the price difference plus a commission on the deficiency volume. Our failure to meet the quality and quantity standards in our marketing agreements with Cargill could adversely affect our results of operations. We will be subject to certain risks associated with Cargill’s ethanol marketing pool. Under the terms of our ethanol marketing agreements, Cargill may place our ethanol in a common marketing pool with ethanol produced by Cargill and certain other third party producers. Each participant in the pool will receive the same price for its share of ethanol sold, net of freight and other agreed costs incurred by Cargill with respect to the pooled ethanol. Freight and other charges will be divided among pool participants based solely upon each participant’s ethanol volume in the pool. As a result, we may be responsible for higher freight and other costs than we would be if we did not participate in the marketing pool, depending on the freight and other costs attributable to the other marketing pool members. In addition, we may become committed to sell ethanol at a fixed price in the future under the marketing pool, exposing us to the risk of increased corn prices if we are unable to hedge such sales. We have the right to opt out of the ethanol marketing pool for any contract year by giving Cargill a six-month advance notice. However, we may be required to participate in the pool for an additional 18 months if Cargill has contractually committed to sell ethanol based on our continued participation in the pool. We are subject to certain risks associated with our corn supply agreements with Cargill. We have agreed to purchase our required corn supply for our Wood River and Fairmont plants exclusively from Cargill and pay Cargill a per bushel fee for all corn Cargill sells to us. We cannot assure you that the prices we pay for corn under our corn supply agreements with Cargill, together with the fee we have agreed to pay to Cargill, will be lower than the prices we could pay or that our competitors will be paying for corn from other sources. Our interests may conflict with the interests of Cargill. Cargill owns and operates two of its own ethanol plants, which are capable of producing approximately 230 Mmgy. In addition, we understand that Cargill may market ethanol for other third parties under the marketing pool arrangements described above. We cannot assure you that Cargill will not favor its own interests or those of other parties over our interests. Under our marketing agreements with Cargill, other than our right to terminate to the extent such conflict results in material quantifiable pecuniary loss, we have waived any claim of conflict of interest against Cargill for failure to use commercially reasonable efforts to maximize our returns to the extent such claims relate to an alleged conflict of interest or alleged preference to third parties for which Cargill provides marketing services. If we elected to terminate the marketing agreements in these circumstances, we would need to enter into replacement marketing arrangements with another party, which may not be possible at all or on terms as favorable as our current agreements with Cargill. To the extent a conflict of interest does not result in material quantifiable pecuniary loss, we would be without recourse against Cargill. 18 New technologies for producing ethanol could displace corn-based ethanol and materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. The development and implementation of new technologies may impact our business significantly. The current trend in ethanol production research is to develop an efficient method of producing ethanol from cellulosic biomass such as agricultural waste, forest residue, and municipal solid waste. This trend is driven by the fact that cellulosic biomass is generally cheaper than corn and producing ethanol from cellulosic biomass would create opportunities to produce ethanol in areas that are unable to grow corn. Another trend in ethanol production research is to produce ethanol through a chemical process rather than a fermentation process, thereby significantly increasing the ethanol yield per pound of feedstock. Although current technology does not allow these production methods to be cost competitive, new technologies may develop that would allow these or other methods to become viable means of ethanol production in the future thereby displacing corn-based ethanol in whole or in part or intensifying competition in the ethanol industry. Our plants are designed to produce corn-based ethanol through a fermentation process. If we are unable to adopt or incorporate these advances into our operations, our cost of producing ethanol could be significantly higher than those of our competitors, and retrofitting our plants, if feasible, may be very time-consuming and could require significant capital expenditures. In addition, advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol, such as alternative fuel additives, or technological advances in engine and exhaust system design performance, such as the commercialization of hydrogen fuel-cells or hybrid engines, or other factors could significantly reduce demand for or eliminate the need for ethanol. We cannot predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies, the costs associated with new technologies or whether these other factors may harm demand for ethanol. Our profit margins may be adversely affected by gasoline demand and fluctuations in the selling price of gasoline. Ethanol is marketed as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of the gasoline with which it is blended and, to a lesser extent, as a gasoline substitute. As a result, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply of and demand for gasoline. Our results of operations may be materially harmed if the demand for, or the price of, gasoline decreases. Conversely, a prolonged increase in the price of gasoline could result in overall reduction in motor fuel (i.e., E10) usage, thereby reducing the demand for ethanol, which could result in lower prices for ethanol. A sustained reduction in the price of ethanol, either in absolute terms or relative to the price of gasoline, may harm our operating results and financial condition. Our business is highly sensitive to corn prices, and we generally cannot pass along increases in corn prices to our customers. Corn is the principal raw material we use to produce ethanol and distillers grain. In 2012, corn costs represented approximately 81% of our cost of goods sold, and approximately 79% of our total operating expenses. Changes in the price of corn therefore significantly affect our business. In general, rising corn prices result in lower profit margins and may result in negative margins if not accompanied by increases in ethanol prices. Under current market conditions, because ethanol competes with fuels that are not corn-based, we generally are unable to pass along increased corn costs to our customer. At certain levels, corn prices would make ethanol uneconomical to use in fuel markets. Over the period from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2012, spot corn prices, based on the Chicago Board of Trade, or CBOT, have ranged from a low of $5.56 per bushel in June 2012 to a high of $8.31 per bushel in August 2012, with prices averaging $6.86 per bushel during this two year period. As of December 31, 2012, the CBOT spot price of corn was $7.00 per bushel. The price of corn is influenced by a number of factors, including weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions and general economic, market and regulatory factors, government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local supply and demand. In addition, any event that tends to increase the demand for corn could cause the price of corn to increase. We believe that the increasing ethanol production capacity has contributed to, and will continue to contribute to, a period of elevated corn prices compared to historical levels. The elimination of or significant changes to the Freedom to Farm Act could reduce corn supplies. In 1996, Congress passed the Freedom to Farm Act, which allows farmers continued access to government subsidies while reducing restrictions on farmers’ decisions about land use. This act not only increased acreage dedicated to corn crops but also allowed farmers more flexibility to respond to increases in corn prices by planting greater amounts of corn. The elimination of this act could reduce the amount of corn available in future years and could reduce the farming industry’s responsiveness to the increasing corn needs of ethanol producers. The market for natural gas is subject to market conditions that create uncertainty in the price and availability of the natural gas that we will use in our manufacturing process. We rely upon third parties for our supply of natural gas, which we use in the ethanol production process. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. The fluctuations in natural gas prices over the period from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2012, based on the New York Mercantile Exchange, or NYMEX, have ranged from a low of $1.91 per million British Thermal Units (Mmbtu) in April 2012 to a high of $4.85 per Mmbtu in June 2011, averaging $3.41 per Mmbtu during this two year period. As of December 31, 2012, the NYMEX spot price of natural gas was $3.40 per Mmbtu. These market conditions are often affected by factors beyond our control, such as the price of oil as a competitive fuel, higher prices resulting from colder than average weather conditions or the impact of hurricanes and overall economic conditions. Local variation in the cost or supply of natural gas at either plant may also negatively impact our operations. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could impair our ability to manufacture ethanol for our customers. Furthermore, increases in natural gas prices could adversely affect our results of operations. 19 We may not be able to compete effectively. We compete with a number of significant competitors in the ethanol industry, including blenders, producers and/or other retailers of gasoline such as Valero Energy, Murphy Oil, Koch Industries, and Sunoco Oil. We also compete with other large ethanol producers such as Archer Daniels Midland, Poet, Green Plains Renewable Energy, Abengoa Bioenergy Corporation, The Andersons, and Pacific Ethanol. A number of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. According to the RFA, the three largest producers (Archer Daniels Midland, Poet and Valero Energy) together controlled approximately 30% of the U.S. ethanol production capacity, and the top ten producers controlled approximately 50% of production capacity, as of the end of 2012. The impact of these large oil refiners, blenders and retailers vertically integrating into ethanol production, and the possibility that one or more of our other competitors have more favorable capital structures than ours, could have the potential effect of placing us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition to the larger sized competitors described above, there are many smaller competitors that have been able to compete successfully in the ethanol industry made up mostly of farmer-owned cooperatives and independent firms consisting of groups of individual farmers and investors. As many of these smaller competitors are farmer-owned, they receive government subsidies that we do not and often require their farmer-owners to commit to selling them a certain amount of corn as a requirement of ownership. We expect intense competition in the ethanol industry to continue. We also face increasing competition from international suppliers. International suppliers produce ethanol primarily from sugar cane and at times may have cost structures that are substantially lower than ours depending on the market price of sugar or other feedstocks relative to corn. With the expiration on December 31, 2011 of the $0.54 per gallon tariff on foreign-produced ethanol, ethanol imports have at times been increasingly competitive with domestic ethanol, including our products. Sugar-based ethanol also qualifies as an “advanced” biofuel under the RFS, and blenders who incorporate it into their fuel are able to garner advanced Renewable Identification Numbers (RIN’s), which sometimes trade at a significant premium to RIN’s generated by conventional, corn-based ethanol. In addition, according to the Economic Research Service of the USDA, in recent years various other countries have begun increasing their use of ethanol as part of their motor fuel supply. While these new markets may offer increased export opportunities for U.S. producers such as us, Brazilian producers may, depending upon a variety of factors including their own domestic ethanol demand, public policy and regulations, world sugar and oil prices and currency exchange rates, export ethanol to meet some or all of this demand. Any increase in domestic or foreign competition could force us to reduce our prices and take other steps to compete effectively, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We may not be able to continue to sell ethanol for export profitably. From time to time we have been able to export a significant portion of our ethanol production to foreign markets. These markets offered net pricing that in most cases represented a premium to the U.S. domestic market. Among the factors that make U.S. produced ethanol competitive in foreign markets, and which could affect our ability to sell ethanol overseas at a premium in the future, are the price of corn relative to other feed stocks, particularly sugarcane, the production economics of ethanol in various other countries, the price of competing outputs, particularly sugar, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar against a variety of foreign currencies and the public policies, including taxes and import duties, of various foreign governments and regulators. In February 2013, the European Union initiated a five-year anti-dumping tariff on U.S. ethanol. The tariff of 62.3 euros per metric ton or approximately $0.24 per gallon (based on an exchange rate of $0.76892 per euro) may render U.S. exports uncompetitive in the European Union. We cannot assure you that we will be able to export our ethanol product in the future or that, if we are able to do so, we will enjoy similar favorable pricing as we have in the past. Growth in the sale and distribution of ethanol depends on changes to and expansion of related infrastructure which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all. It currently is impracticable to transport by pipeline fuel blends that contain ethanol. Substantial development of infrastructure will be required by persons and entities outside our control for our business, and the ethanol industry generally, to grow. Areas requiring expansion include, but are not limited to: ·additional rail car capacity; ·additional storage facilities for ethanol; ·increases in truck fleets capable of transporting ethanol within localized markets; ·investment in refining and blending infrastructure to handle ethanol; ·growth in service stations equipped to handle ethanol fuels; ·growth in the fleet of vehicles capable of using E15 fules and the associated dedicated infrastructure, where needed; and growth in the fleet of flexible fuel vehicles capable of using E85 fuels and the associated dedicated infrastructure, where needed. 20 The substantial investments or government support required for these infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made on a timely basis or at all. Any delay or failure in making the changes to or expansion of infrastructure could weaken the demand or prices for our products, impede our delivery of products, impose additional costs on us or otherwise materially harm our results of operations or financial position. Transportation delays, including those as a result of disruptions to infrastructure, could adversely affect our operations. Our business depends on the availability of rail and road distribution infrastructure. Any disruptions in this infrastructure network, whether caused by earthquakes, storms, other natural disasters or human error or malfeasance, could materially impact our business. It currently is impracticable to transport by pipeline fuel blends that contain ethanol, and we have limited ethanol storage capacity at our facilities. Therefore, any unexpected delay in transportation of our ethanol could result in significant disruption to our operations, possibly requiring shutting down our plant operations. We rely upon others to maintain our rail lines from our production plants to national rail networks, and any failure on their part to maintain the lines could impede our delivery of products, impose additional costs on us or otherwise cause our results of operations or financial condition to suffer. Disruptions in the supply of oil or natural gas could materially harm our business. Significant amounts of oil and natural gas are required for the growing, fertilizing and harvesting of corn, as well as for the fermentation, distillation and transportation of ethanol and the drying of distillers grain. A serious disruption in the supply of oil or natural gas and any related period of elevated prices could significantly increase our production costs and possibly require shutting down our plant operations, which would materially harm our business. Our business may be influenced by seasonal fluctuations over which we have no control. Our operating results may be influenced by seasonal fluctuations in the price of our primary operating inputs, corn and natural gas, and the price of our primary product, ethanol. Generally speaking, the spot price of corn tends to rise during the spring planting season in April and May and tends to decrease during the fall harvest in October and November. The price for natural gas, however, tends to move inversely to that of corn and tends to be lower in the spring and summer and higher in the fall and winter. In addition, ethanol prices have historically been substantially correlated with the price of unleaded gasoline. The demand for unleaded gasoline tends to rise during the late spring and summer, generally resulting in higher prices during those periods. Due to the rapid growth in the supply of ethanol and the expiration of the blenders’ credit, ethanol has recently traded at a discount to gasoline and we believe it is likely to continue to do so. Historically, we have seen a seasonal narrowing in the “crush spread” during the first half of the year, as corn prices firm following completion of the harvest and gasoline and ethanol demand slows during the winter months. Although we have generally experienced a widening crush spread in the latter part of the year, as the summer driving season increases demand for motor fuel and the approaching harvest eases corn prices, this pattern did not occure in 2012 and we cannot assure you that this pattern will recur in this or any other year. The price of distillers grain is affected by the price of other commodity products, such as soybeans, and decreases in the price of these commodities could decrease the price of distillers grain. Distillers grain is one of many animal feed products and competes with other protein-based animal feed products. The price of distillers grain may decrease when the price of competing feed products decreases. The prices of competing animal feed products are based in part on the prices of the commodities from which they are derived. Downward pressure on commodity prices, such as soybeans, will generally cause the price of competing animal feed products to decline, resulting in downward pressure on the price of distillers grain. Because the price of distillers grain is not tied to production costs, decreases in the price of distillers grain will result in us generating less revenue and lower profit margins. In addition, the production of distillers grain has risen significantly in recent years with the expansion of ethanol production capacity in the United States. As a result of this significant increase in supply, the market price of distillers grain may fall sharply from its current levels. If the market price of distillers grain falls, our business and financial results may be harmed. The price of corn oil is affected by the price of other commodity products, such as soybean oil, and the price of and demand for biodiesel, and decreases in the price of these commodities could decrease the price of corn oil. The corn oil we produce in our plants is chiefly used as a feedstock to produce biodiesel, and thus competes with other feedstocks such as soybean oil and yellow grease. The market price for corn oil may decrease when the price of other biodiesel feedstocks decreases. Biodiesel is itself a commodity product and competes with traditional diesel fuels. Beginning in July 2011, the RFS has required that a certain volume of biomass-based diesel fuel, which includes biodiesel, be included in the U.S. motor fuel supply. Blenders who incorporate biodiesel can generate Renewable Identification Numbers (RINS) for advanced biofuels, which trade at a premium to conventional ethanol RINS and therefore provide further support for the price of biodiesel. However, the continuation of this aspect of the RFS has been the subject of extensive litigation, and is also subject to the same uncertainties as described above with respect to traditional biofuels. Biodiesel has also enjoyed the advantage of favorable tax treatment, as those marketers who blended biodiesel with petroleum-based diesel have been eligible for an excise tax credit of $1.00 per gallon of biodiesel incorporated into their products. The biodiesel blenders’ tax credit has been allowed to lapse from time to time, most recently having been reinstated on January 2, 2013, retroactive to January 1, 2012 and with a scheduled expiration of December 31, 2013. If Congress were to fail to extend the credit, or extend it at a reduced rate, the demand for, and/or price of, biodiesel may decrease. This may result in reduced demand for corn oil as a feedstock or a reduction in the market price for corn oil from its current levels, or both. Additionally, if the number of biodiesel producers capable of processing corn oil does not increase, corn oil supplies could become excessive, particularly if more ethanol plants install corn oil extraction systems, and lower prices could result. If we experience a reduction in our revenues from this co-product, our business and financial results may be harmed. 21 We have encountered unanticipated difficulties in operating our plants, which may recur and cause us to incur substantial losses. We are aware of certain plant design and construction defects that may impede the reliable and continuous operation of our plants, and as a result, our plants have not consistently operated at full capacity. While we have addressed a number of these reliability issues, we anticipate that we will encounter a variety of other reliability and operational issues that will require us to invest in capital improvements at our plants. However, our limited liquidity may prevent us from financing all of these initiatives and, even if completed, we cannot assure you that our initiatives will be successful or can be implemented in a timely fashion or without an extended period of interruption to operations. As a result, the operation of our plants has been more costly or inefficient than we anticipated, and this may recur in the future. Any inability to operate our plants at full capacity on a consistent basis could have a negative impact on our cash flows and liquidity. We may also encounter other factors that could prevent us from conducting operations as expected, resulting in decreased capacity or interruptions in production, including shortages of workers or materials, design issues relating to improvements, construction and equipment cost escalation, transportation constraints, adverse weather, unforeseen difficulties or labor issues, or changes in political administrations at the federal, state or local levels that result in policy change towards ethanol in general or our plants in particular. Furthermore, local water, electricity and gas utilities may not be able to reliably supply the resources that our facilities will need or may not be able to supply them on acceptable terms. Our operations may be subject to significant interruption if any of our facilities experiences a major accident or is damaged by severe weather or other natural disasters. In addition, our operations may be subject to labor disruptions, unscheduled downtime or other operational hazards inherent in our industry. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover the potential operational hazards described above and we may not be able to renew our insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any cessation of operations due to any of the above factors would cause our sales to decrease significantly, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, access to and impacts on water supply, and the health and safety of our employees. Some of these laws and regulations require our facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can require expensive emissions testing and pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and facility shutdowns. We may not be in compliance with these laws, regulations or permits at all times or we may not have all permits required to operate our business. We may be subject to legal actions brought by environmental advocacy groups and other parties for actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permits. In addition, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits. 22 During the start-up and initial operation of our two plants, we occasionally failed to meet all of the parameters of our air and water discharge permits. We have addressed these issues primarily through adjustments to our equipment and operations, including significant upgrades to our water treatment system in Fairmont, Minnesota, and subsequent re-tests indicate that we are operating within our permitted limits. We have received Notices of Violations with respect to both sites from environmental regulators relating to these issues. In Nebraska, we have not been subject to any enforcement action. In Minnesota, we have resolved all of our outstanding enforcement issues through a Stipulated Agreement with the state, which resulted in us paying fines of $46,000 in 2011 and $285,000 in 2010. We do not anticipate a material adverse impact on our business or financial condition as a result of these prior violations. Our water permits are issued under the federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES), as administered by the states. Our Minnesota NPDES permit contains certain discharge variances from the water quality standards adopted by the U.S. EPA, which variances expired on July 31, 2011. As part of the Stipulated Agreement with the state of Minnesota, we are required either to implement additional alternative technologies to allow us to meet the water quality standards, cease all off-site surface water discharges or implement alternative discharge solutions, such as a pipeline to a larger, more remote receiving stream. We are currently designing a zero liquid discharge system which will allow the plant to cease its off-site surface water discharge and to recycle all water used at the plant. The state of Minnesota has agreed with this approach and has allowed the plant until December 31, 2013 to cease its discharge. This undertaking will require significant expenditures which we expect will represent a significant portion of our capital improvement budget in 2013. We have no assurances at this time that we will be able to meet the timelines for implementing the proposed solution or that the proposed solution will be technically feasible. Failure to meet the water quality standards as required by the Stipulated Agreement may result in additional enforcement actions, including substantial fines, and may result in legal actions by private parties, any one or combination of which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. We may be adversely affected by pending climate change regulations. Ethanol production involves the emission of various airborne pollutants, including particulate, carbon dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, hazardous air pollutants and volatile organic compounds. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court classified carbon dioxide as an air pollutant under the Clean Air Act in a case seeking to require the EPA to regulate carbon dioxide in vehicle emissions. On February 3, 2010, the EPA released its proposed final regulations on the Renewable Fuels Standard, or RFS. We believe these final regulations grandfather our plants at their current operating capacity, though expansion of our plants would need to meet a threshold of a 20% reduction in “greenhouse gas,” or GHG, emissions from a 2005 baseline measurement to produce ethanol eligible for the RFS mandate. Although we have no current intention to expand either of our plants, if we were able to do so in the future, we may be required to obtain additional permits or reduce drying of certain amounts of distillers grains. Separately, the California Air Resources Board has adopted a Low Carbon Fuel Standard requiring a 10% reduction in GHG emissions from transportation fuels by 2020. An Indirect Land Use Change component is included in this lifecycle GHG emissions calculation, though this standard is being challenged by numerous lawsuits. This proposed standard could have the effect in the future of rendering our ethanol unsaleable in the state of California and, if adopted in other states, elsewhere. 23 Risks relating to the ownership of our common stock The existing market for our common stock is illiquid, and we do not know whether a liquid trading market will develop. Although our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the trading market is relatively illiquid. As of December 31, 2012, there were approximately 5.4 million shares of our common stock, excluding treasury shares, and 0.8 million shares of our Class B common stock issued and outstanding, of which approximately 52.8% were held by certain of our “affiliates”. As a result, there are relatively few shares in publicly traded hands, there are few institutional stockholders other than those controlled by certain of our affiliates and we do not receive a significant amount of analyst coverage. An illiquid market will limit your ability to resell shares of our common stock. Our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “BIOF.” The listing standards of Nasdaq provide, among other things, that a company may be delisted if the bid price for its stock drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days. We have from time to time failed to satisfy this threshold and as a result have had to transition to the Nasdaq Capital Market from the Nasdaq Global Market. Most recently, on May 21, 2012, we received a letter advising that the Nasdaq Listings Qualifications Panel had determined to grant the Company, until June 30, 2012, to regain compliance with the $1.00 bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market as set forth in Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). In order to come into compliance, we conducted a 1-for-20 reverse split in the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, and reduced the number authorized shares of Common Stock under our charter to 10,000,000, and the number of authorized shares of Class B Common Stock to 3,750,000. If our common stock were to trade below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days, we would expect to receive a Nasdaq Staff Determination Letter to this effect, which could cause our common stock to be delisted and traded on the over-the-counter bulletin board network. Moving our listing to the over-the-counter bulletin board network could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and could significantly negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from Nasdaq could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile and could be subject to future fluctuations in response to a number of factors beyond our control. Some of these factors are: ·our results of operations and the performance of our competitors; ·the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC; ·changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who follow us or other companies in our industry; ·changes in general economic conditions; 24 ·changes in market prices for our products (ethanol, distillers grains, and corn oil) or for our raw materials (primarily corn and natural gas); ·actions of certain of our affiliates, including sales of common stock by our Directors and executive officers; ·actions by institutional investors trading in our stock; ·disruption of our operations; ·any major change in our management team; ·other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors; and ·U.S. and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. In recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause declines in the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company or its performance, and those fluctuations could materially reduce our common stock price. Certain large stockholders’ shares may be sold into the market in the future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly. As of December 31, 2012 we had outstanding approximately 5.4 million shares of common stock, excluding treasury shares, and 0.8 million shares of Class B common stock. Some of the shares of common stock were, when issued (including some of the shares issued in the Rights Offering), “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. These shares, including those owned by our “affiliates,” have either become eligible for sale in the public market under Rule 144 or will become eligible for sale upon satisfaction of the holding period requirements of Rule 144, subject, in the case of shares held by affiliates, to volume limitations and other restrictions contained in Rule 144. In addition, shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time into shares of common stock and, once converted, become eligible for resale under Rule 144 subject to the holding period requirements and, in the case of shares held by affiliates, the volume restrictions of Rule 144. In addition, certain of these affiliates have the right to require us to register the resale of their shares. If holders sell substantial amounts of these shares, the price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Certain large stockholders own a significant percentage of our shares and exert significant influence over us. Their interests may not coincide with yours and they may make decisions with which you may disagree. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the holders of shares of our Class B common stock will be entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. As of December 31, 2012, certain affiliates of Greenlight Capital, Inc., with respect to the Class B common stock and common stock held by them, and certain affiliates of Third Point LLC, with respect to the common stock held by them, respectively, controlled approximately 35.4% and 17.4% of the voting power of BioFuel Energy Corp. These large stockholders, acting together, could determine substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other stockholders. Accordingly, these stockholders could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that you would not approve or make decisions with which you may disagree. 25 We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have not paid any dividends since inception and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our available cash, if any, for use as working capital and for other general corporate purposes, including to service our debt and to fund the development and operation of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that the Board of Directors deems relevant. In addition, our bank facility imposes restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries that own and operate our Wood River and Fairmont plants to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which will restrict our ability to pay dividends. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Risks relating to our organizational structure Our only material asset is our interest in BioFuel Energy, LLC, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from BioFuel Energy, LLC to pay dividends, taxes and other expenses. BioFuel Energy Corp. is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of membership units in the LLC. BioFuel Energy Corp. has no independent means of generating revenue. Our bank facility contains negative covenants, which limit the ability of our operating subsidiaries to declare or pay dividends or distributions. To the extent that BioFuel Energy Corp. needs funds, and the LLC is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulations, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds due, for example, to the restrictions in our bank facility that limit the ability of our operating subsidiaries to distribute funds, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially harmed. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be limited as a result of prior or future acquisitions of our common stock, including but not limited to the recently consummated Rights Offering and periodic exchanges of membership interests in the LLC for shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2012 we reported federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $238.7 million, which will begin to expire if not used by December 31, 2028. For accounting purposes, a valuation allowance is required to reduce our potential deferred tax assets if it is determined that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of such assets will not be realized for any reason. Our financial statements currently provide a valuation allowance against our NOL carryforwards. Our ability to utilize our tax attributes, such as NOL carryforwards and tax credits (“Tax Attributes”), during future periods will depend in part on whether we have undergone an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). For this purpose, an ownership change generally occurs if, as of any “testing date” (as defined under Section 382 of the Code), our “5-percent shareholders” have collectively increased their ownership in our common stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the relevant testing period, which generally begins three years before each “testing date” transaction. In general, our 5-percent shareholders would include (i) any individual who owns 5% or more of our common stock and (ii) any “public group” that owns our common stock, in each case whether such shareholders own our common stock directly or indirectly through one or more higher tier entities that directly or indirectly own 5% or more of our common stock. A “public group” generally consists of any group of individuals each of whom directly or indirectly owns less than 5% of our common stock. An ownership change may therefore occur following substantial changes in the direct or indirect ownership of our outstanding stock by one or more 5-percent shareholders over this period. 26 After an ownership change, Section 382 of the Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of our post-change taxable income that may be offset by our pre-change Tax Attributes. The limitation imposed by Section 382 for any post-change year is generally determined by multiplying the value of our common stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. Any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years. In addition, the limitation may be increased under certain circumstances by any “built-in gain” in our assets at the time of the ownership change. It is unclear whether all or a portion of our Tax Attributes are or will be subject to a limitation under Section 382 of the Code as a result of prior or future acquisitions of our common stock by 5-percent shareholders, including but not limited to the recently consummated Rights Offering, periodic exchanges of membership interests in the LLC for shares of our common stock and certain changes in the ownership of any entity that owns 5% or more of our common stock. If our Tax Attributes are not currently subject to limitation under Section 382 of the Code, our Board of Directors may take actions to impose transfer restrictions or other protective mechanisms, including the adoption of a “tax benefit preservation plan,” to reduce the likelihood of a future ownership change. Any such plan, if adopted, would be adopted on terms and conditions approved by our Board of Directors. Our ability to use our Tax Attributes will also depend on the amount of taxable income we generate in future periods. Even without regard to Section 382 of the Code, therefore, all or a portion of our Tax Attributes may expire before we generate sufficient taxable income to utilize them. We will be required to pay certain holders of membership interests in the LLC for a portion of the benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of tax basis step-ups we receive in connection with future exchanges of BioFuel Energy, LLC membership units for shares of our common stock. The membership units in the LLC held by members other than BioFuel Energy Corp. may be exchanged for shares of our common stock. The exchanges may result in increases in the tax basis of the assets of the LLC that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in tax basis may reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the IRS may challenge all or part of the tax basis increases, and a court could sustain such a challenge. At the current trading price, which was $5.52 as of March 19, 2013, we do not anticipate any material change in the tax basis of the LLC’s assets. We have entered into a tax benefit sharing agreement with certain holders of membership interests in the LLC that will provide for the payment by us to such holders of LLC membership interests of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of these increases in tax basis. The increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, and the amount and timing of our income. As a result of the size of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of the LLC attributable to our interest in the LLC, during the expected term of the tax benefit sharing agreement, we expect that the payments that we may make to these holders LLC membership interests could be substantial. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase, the holders of interests in the LLC will not reimburse us for any payments that may previously have been made under the tax benefit sharing agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances we could make payments to these holders of LLC membership interests under the tax benefit sharing agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under the tax benefit sharing agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income. Provisions in our charter documents and our organizational structure may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party or may reduce the value of your investment. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder may deem to be in his or her best interest. For example, our Board of Directors may determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. In addition, stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate Directors or to propose business to be considered at a meeting of stockholders and may not take action by written consent. Our corporate structure, which provides our historical LLC equity investors, through the shares of Class B common stock they will hold, a number of votes equal to the number of shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of their membership units in the LLC, may also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a future takeover or change in control of our company. The existence of these provisions and this structure could also limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 27 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 28 