D. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY We may fail to effectively develop and commercialize new products, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The medical device market is developing rapidly and related technology trends are constantly evolving. This results in frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles and significant price competition. Consequently, our success substantially depends on our ability to anticipate technology development trends and identify, develop and commercialize in a timely and cost-effective manner new and advanced products that our customers demand. New products contribute significantly to our net revenues. Products introduced since 2006 accounted for more than 25.0% of our net revenues in 2008. We expect the medical device market to continue evolving toward newer and more advanced products, many of which we do not currently produce. Commercialization of any new product requires relevant government approval, the timing of which may not be under our control, and is subject to change from time to time. Moreover, it may take an extended period of time for our new products to gain market acceptance, if at all. Furthermore, as the life cycle for a product matures, the average selling price generally decreases. Although we have previously offset the effects of declining average sales prices with sales volume increases and manufacturing cost reductions, we may be unable to continue doing so. Lastly, during a product’s life cycle, problems may arise regarding regulatory, intellectual property, product liability or other issues which may affect its continued commercial viability. Our success in developing and commercializing new products is determined by our ability to: • accurately assess technology trends and customer needs and meet market demands; • optimize our manufacturing and procurement processes to predict and control costs; • manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner; • increase customer awareness and acceptance of our products; • effectively manage our brands; • minimize the time and costs required to obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals; • anticipate and compete effectively with other medical device developers, manufacturers and marketers; • price our products competitively; and • effectively integrate customer feedback into our research and development planning. The acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business may not be effectively integrated and exposes us to additional potential risks, each of which may materially and adversely affect our business. We completed the acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business in May 2008. The acquisition requires that our management develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the integration of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business could materially and adversely affect our ability to manage our business. Realizing the benefits of our acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business depends in substantial part on the successful integration of technologies, operations and personnel. Since completing the acquisition, we have begun operating as a combined organization and begun utilizing common business, information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resource practices, including benefits, training and professional development programs. We face significant challenges in the integration process, which include: • integrating operations, services and personnel in a timely and efficient manner; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities; 5 Table of Contents • the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies; • our ability to generate sufficient revenue and net income to offset acquisition costs; • adding products to the acquired business’ platform; • effectively managing multiple brands; • integrating and managing our third-party distribution network and our newly acquired direct sales force, particularly in areas of overlap; • identifying when to sell direct and when to sell through our distribution network to maximize net revenues; • coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively communicate our capabilities to our customers; • potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees or customers, any of which could significantly disrupt our ability to manage our business and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; • retaining senior management and key sales and marketing and research and development personnel and attracting and retaining other skilled research staff and mid-level personnel; • incompatibility of corporate cultures; • increased exposure to legal liabilities due to the acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business, which has significant U.S. operations; • preserving important customer and supplier relationships of both companies and resolving potential conflicts that may arise; • demonstrating to customers that the acquisition will not result in adverse changes in client service standards or business focus and assisting customers in conducting business successfully with the combined company; • consolidating and rationalizing corporate, information technology and administrative infrastructures; • integrating and documenting processes and controls in conformance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and • operating at multiple sites in China, the United States, Europe, and the rest of the world. We are currently experiencing a global economic crisis, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently experiencing a global economic crisis which affects all areas of business, including health care, in all the regions we operate in. Disruptions in orderly financial markets in recent months, resulting from, among other factors, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability plus volatile and declining valuations of securities and other investments have caused business and consumer confidence to ebb, business activities to slow down, and unemployment to increase. These factors along with the interconnectivity and interdependence of international economies have created a global downturn in economic activity. We are unable to predict how long the economic downturn will last. A continuing economic downturn may adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including: • Reduced demand for our products. In a period of economic uncertainty, customers may adopt a strategy of deferring purchases to upgrade existing equipment or deploy new equipment until later periods when visibility of their cash flows becomes more assured. In addition, customers who must finance their capital expenditures through various forms of debt may find financing unavailable to them. • Increased pricing pressure and lower margins. Our competitors include a number of global enterprises with relatively greater size in terms of revenues, working capital, financial resources and number of employees, and some of our end-users are healthcare service providers who are typically owned, controlled, 6 Table of Contents or sponsored by governments. If the size of our potential markets contracts due to the global economic downturn, competition for available sales may become more intense, which could require us to offer or accept pricing, payment, or local content terms which are less favorable to remain competitive. In some cases we might be unwilling or unable to compete for business where competitive pressures make a potential opportunity unprofitable to us. • Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. Many of our end-users are either owned or controlled by governments; any changes in such governments’ policies concerning the authorization or funding of payments for capital expenditures could lengthen the cash collection cycle of our distributors, which may thereby cause our liquidity to deteriorate if our distributors are unable to pay us on time. Additionally, sales made to our distributors or other customers whose financial resources may be subject to rapid decline, could expose us to losing sales, delaying revenue recognition or accepting greater collection risks due to credit quality issues. • Greater difficulty in obtaining purchased goods and services. We expect that many of our suppliers will face the same or more challenging circumstances as we face in the current economic downturn, which could result in an adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. Some suppliers or vendors could choose to provide supplies or services to us on more stringent payment terms than those currently in place, such as by requiring advance payment or payment upon delivery of such supplies or services. Additionally, some suppliers might experience a worsening financial condition causing them to either withdraw from the market or be unable to meet our expected timing for the receipt of goods ordered from them, either of which condition could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers and lengthen the cycle time for transforming customer orders into cash receipts. Additionally, if it is necessary to seek alternative sources of supply, the effects on our costs, cycle time for cash collections, and customer satisfaction with us are uncertain. • Additional restructuring and impairment charges. If we are unable to generate the level of revenues, profits, and cash flow contemplated by our business plan, management will be forced to take further action to focus our business activities and align our cost structure with anticipated revenues. These actions, if necessary could result in additional restructuring charges and/or asset impairment charges being recognized in 2009 and beyond. The economic crisis is particularly focused on the U.S. and Europe, which is the focus of the majority of our revenues from our recently acquired operations. It is unclear how the current economic crisis will affect medical product purchasing in the U.S., Europe, and other markets which might be viewed as more immune or better buffered from the current economic crisis. We maintain a direct sales force in the United States and Europe following our acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business that is costly and the maintenance of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We acquired a substantial direct sales force in the United States and Europe through our acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business, and rely on direct sales for a significant portion of our revenues from these areas. Maintaining a direct sales force is costly. We typically provide our direct sales personnel with payroll and other benefits that we do not provide independent distributors. Many of these benefits are fixed costs that do not depend on revenue generation. If our direct sales force fails to generate projected revenues, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Maintaining a direct sales force and independent distribution network in the United States and Europe could result in potential sales conflicts that would negatively impact our revenue and results of operations. Prior to our acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business, we maintained independent distributor relationships in the United States and Europe. With the addition of a direct sales force in these areas, we are currently directly selling Datascope-branded products, Mindray-branded ultrasound systems and DPM-branded patient monitoring devices. This creates the potential for conflict between our independent distributors and direct sales force. If our independent distributors and direct sales force compete with each other, our independent 7 Table of Contents distributors could reduce their selling prices for our products to make sales. Because we generate higher revenues from direct sales, this would negatively impact our revenue. Further, independent existing and potential distributors may decide not to sell our products or cease selling our products because of this potential conflict. Moreover, sales conflicts could negatively impact the morale of our direct sales force. We depend on distributors for a significant majority of our revenues and a significant portion of our revenue growth. Failure to maintain relationships with our distributors would materially and adversely affect our business. We depend on distributors for more than 65% of our revenues and for a significant portion of our revenue growth. We typically do not have long-term distribution agreements. As our existing distribution agreements expire, we may be unable to renew with our desired distributors on favorable terms or at all. In addition, we seek to limit our dependence on any single distributor by limiting and periodically redefining the scope of each distributor’s territory and the range of our products that it sells, which may make us less attractive to some distributors. Furthermore, competition for distributors is intense. We compete for distributors domestically and internationally with other leading medical equipment and device companies that may have higher visibility, greater name recognition and financial resources, and a broader product selection than we do. Our competitors also often enter into long-term distribution agreements that effectively prevent their distributors from selling our products. Consequently, maintaining relationships with existing distributors and replacing distributors may be difficult and time consuming. Any disruption of our distribution network, including our failure to renew our existing distribution agreements with our desired distributors, could negatively affect our ability to effectively sell our products and would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to effectively structure and manage our distribution network, and our business, prospects and brand may be materially and adversely affected by actions taken by our distributors. We have limited ability to manage the activities of our distributors, who are independent from us. Our distributors could take one or more of the following actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and brand: • sell products that compete with our products that they have contracted to sell for us; • sell our products outside their designated territory, possibly in violation of the exclusive distribution rights of other distributors; • fail to adequately promote our products; • fail to provide proper training, repair and service to our end-users; or • violate the anti-corruption laws of China, the United States or other countries. Furthermore, although we attempt to structure our distribution network so that each of our products is sold with similar effort, our distributors may focus selling efforts only on those products that provide them with the largest margins at the expense of products that offer them smaller margins. Failure to adequately manage our distribution network, or non-compliance by distributors with our distribution agreements could harm our corporate image among end users of our products and disrupt our sales, resulting in a failure to meet our sales goals. Furthermore, we could be liable for actions taken by our distributors, including any violations of applicable law in connection with the marketing or sale of our products, including China’s anti-corruption laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our distributors even though almost all of our distributors are non-U.S. companies that are not subject to the FCPA. Our distributors may violate these laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices with respect to their sales or marketing of our products. If our distributors violate these laws, we could be required to pay damages or fines, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our brand and reputation, our sales activities or the price of our ADSs could be adversely affected if our company becomes the target of any negative publicity as a result of actions taken by our distributors. 8 Table of Contents We may undertake acquisitions, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, and may end up being unsuccessful. Our growth strategy may involve acquisitions of new technologies, businesses, products or services or the creation of strategic alliances in areas in which we do not currently operate. Future acquisitions could require that our management develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the integration of acquired businesses could have an adverse effect on the ability to effectively manage our business. International expansion may be costly, time consuming and difficult. If we do not successfully expand internationally, our profitability and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Our success significantly depends upon our ability to expand in our existing international markets and enter into new international markets. In expanding our business internationally, we have entered and intend to continue to enter markets in which we have limited or no experience and in which our brand may be less recognized. To further promote our brand and generate demand for our products so as to attract distributors in international markets, we expect to spend more on marketing and promotion than we do in our existing markets. We may be unable to attract a sufficient number of distributors, and our selected distributors may not be suitable for selling our products. Furthermore, in new markets we may fail to anticipate competitive conditions that are different from those in our existing markets. These competitive conditions may make it difficult or impossible for us to effectively operate in these markets. If our expansion efforts in existing and new markets are unsuccessful, our profitability and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to other risks associated with international operations, including: • political instability; • economic instability and recessions; • changes in tariffs; • difficulties of administering foreign operations generally; • limited protection for intellectual property rights; • obligations to comply with a wide variety of foreign laws and other regulatory requirements; • increased risk of exposure to terrorist activities; • financial condition, expertise and performance of our international distributors; • export license requirements; • unauthorized re-export of our products; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • inability to effectively enforce contractual or legal rights. Consolidation of our customer base and the formation of group purchasing organizations could adversely affect our revenues. In recent years, consolidation among health care providers and the formation of purchasing groups has imposed pricing pressures. Our success in areas of health care provider consolidation and where purchasing organizations have been formed depends partly on our ability to enter into contracts with group purchasing organizations and integrated health networks. If we are unable to enter into contracts with group purchasing organizations and integrated health networks on satisfactory terms or at all, our revenues would be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our success significantly depends upon the continued service of our key executives and other key employees. In particular, we are highly dependent on our co-chief executive officers, Mr. Xu Hang and Mr. Li Xiting, to manage our business and operations, and on our other key senior management for the operation of our business. If we lose the services of any key senior management, we may not be able to locate suitable or qualified replacements, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. Furthermore, as we expect to continue to expand our operations and develop new products, we will need to continue attracting and retaining experienced management, key research and development personnel, and salespeople. Competition for personnel in the medical technology field is intense, and the availability of suitable and qualified candidates in China, particularly Shenzhen, is limited. We compete to attract and retain qualified research and development personnel with other medical device companies, universities and research institutions. Competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We previously awarded share-based compensation in connection with our initial public offering, some of which is still subject to vesting. We additionally awarded a one-time retention bonus in connection with our acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business, which will be paid out subject to certain minimum employment conditions. Such retention awards may cease to be effective to retain our current employees once the shares are vested and bonus amounts are paid out. Additionally, our previously awarded equity grants were issued at exercise prices close to the current depressed market price of our shares. We may need to increase our total compensation costs to attract and retain experienced personnel required to achieve our business objectives and failure to do so could severely disrupt our business and growth. Our business is subject to intense competition, which may reduce demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The medical device market is highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify. In particular, competition in the government tender arena has continued to intensify in recent years, creating significant pricing pressure. We face direct competition in China, the U.S. and globally across all product lines and price points. Our competitors also vary significantly according to business segments. Our competitors include publicly traded and privately held multinational companies, as well as local companies in the markets where we sell our products. We face competition from companies that have local operations in the markets in which we sell our products who may have lower cost structures, domestic support, or local protect through tariff and non-tariff barriers. In the U.S., where we compete with a direct sales force and services team, we face competition from companies that have a better capitalization, a wider range of products, and greater understanding of the market given their longer history of operations. Some of our larger competitors may have: • greater financial and other resources; • larger variety of products; • more products that have received regulatory approvals; • greater pricing flexibility; • more extensive research and development and technical capabilities; • patent portfolios that may present an obstacle to our conduct of business; • greater knowledge of local market conditions where we seek to increase our international sales; • capability to offer vendor financing or leasing arrangements; • stronger brand recognition; and • larger sales and distribution networks. 10 Table of Contents As a result, we may be unable to offer products similar to, or more desirable than, those offered by our competitors, market our products as effectively as our competitors or otherwise respond successfully to competitive pressures. In addition, our competitors may be able to offer discounts on competing products as part of a “bundle” of non-competing products, systems and services that they sell to our customers, and we may not be able to profitably match those discounts. Furthermore, our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently offer or that render our products obsolete or uncompetitive. In addition, the timing of the introduction of competing products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. Our failure to compete successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects. Moreover, some of our competitors based outside China have established or are in the process of establishing production and research and development facilities in China, while others have entered into cooperative business arrangements with Chinese manufacturers. If we are unable to develop competitive products, obtain regulatory approval or clearance and supply sufficient quantities to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors, market acceptance of our products may be limited, which could result in decreased sales. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our manufacturing cost advantage. In other emerging markets, we have also seen larger competitors setting up sizable local businesses or acquiring local competitors or distributors, which allow them to be more competitive in their pricing and distribution infrastructure. In addition, we believe that corrupt practices in the medical device industry in China and certain emerging markets still occur. To increase sales, certain manufacturers or distributors of medical devices may pay kickbacks or provide other benefits to hospital personnel who make procurement decisions. Our company policy prohibits these practices by our direct sales personnel and our distribution agreements require our distributors to comply with applicable law. As a result, as competition intensifies in the medical device industry in these markets, we may lose sales, customers or contracts to competitors. If we fail to accurately project demand for our products, we may encounter problems of inadequate supply or oversupply, especially with respect to our international markets, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as damage our reputation and brand. Our distributors typically order our products on a purchase order basis. We project demand for our products based on rolling projections from our distributors, our understanding of anticipated hospital procurement spending, and distributor inventory levels. Lack of significant order backlog and the varying sales and purchasing cycles of our distributors and other customers, however, make it difficult for us to forecast future demand accurately. Our projections of market demand for our products in countries where we lack a direct sales force are generally less reliable than in countries where we do have a direct sales force because we have less information available on which to base our projections. Specifically, we do not have consistently reliable information regarding international distributor inventory levels in these markets, and we sometimes lack extensive knowledge of local market conditions or about distributor purchasing patterns, preferences, or cycles. Furthermore, because shipping finished products to international distributors typically takes longer than shipping to domestic distributors, inaccurate demand projections can result more quickly in unmet demand. We additionally may have unpredictably large tender sales orders for which we may have insufficient inventory to fill along with the additional orders in our pipeline. If we overestimate demand, we may purchase more raw materials or components than required. If we underestimate demand, our third party suppliers may have inadequate raw material or product component inventories, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay shipments, and could result in lost sales. In particular, we are seeking to manage our procurement and inventory costs by matching our inventories closely with our projected manufacturing needs and by, from time to time, deferring our purchase of raw materials and components in anticipation of supplier price reductions. As we seek to balance reduced inventory costs and production flexibility, we may fail to accurately forecast demand and coordinate our procurement and production to meet demand on a timely basis. Our underestimation of demand, coupled with our decision to defer our purchase of new raw materials and components in anticipation of a reduction in pricing for certain raw materials and components at the beginning of a new calendar year, resulted in up to three-week delays in our product deliveries 11 Table of Contents internationally. Our inability to accurately predict our demand and to timely meet our demand could materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations as well as damage our reputation and corporate brand. We currently principally rely on three manufacturing, assembly and storage facilities for our products and are developing two additional facilities. Any disruption to our current manufacturing facilities or in the development of these new facilities could reduce or restrict our sales and harm our reputation. We manufacture, assemble and store a substantial majority of our products, as well as conduct some of our research and development activities at our two facilities located in Shenzhen, China. We also manufacture, assemble and store a significant number of products at our Mahwah, New Jersey facility. We conduct some of our primary research and development activities at our headquarters. We do not maintain other back-up facilities, so we depend on these facilities for the continued operation of our business. A natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruptions, water shortage, storms, fires, earthquakes, terrorist attacks and wars, could significantly impair our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business, as well as delay our research and development activities. Our facilities and certain equipment located in these facilities would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Catastrophic events may also destroy any inventory located in our facilities. The occurrence of such an event could materially and adversely affect our business. We are developing a new research and development center adjacent to our headquarters in Shenzhen, and, pursuant to an agreement with the Government of the Nanjing Jiangning Development Zone, are developing a new research and development and manufacturing facility in Nanjing. These facilities require significant build-out before they will be fully operational. We may experience difficulties that disrupt our manufacturing activities, management and administration, or research and development as we migrate or expand to these facilities. Moreover, we may not realize their anticipated benefits. Any of these factors could reduce or restrict our sales and harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of required materials and components that meet our production standards at acceptable costs or at all, our ability to accept and fulfill product orders with the required quality and at the required time could be restricted, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase raw materials and components from third party suppliers and manufacture and assemble our products at our facility. Our purchases are generally made on a purchase order basis and we do not have long-term supply contracts. As a result, our suppliers may cease to provide components to us with little or no advance notice. In addition, to optimize our cost structure, we rely on single source suppliers to provide approximately 25% by value of our raw materials and components, primarily for proprietary integrated circuits for products across our business segments. No single source supplier accounted for more than 5% of our total supply purchases in 2008. Interruptions in certain material or component supplies could delay our manufacturing and assembly processes. We also may be unable to secure alternative supply sources in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of required materials and components that meet our production standards at acceptable costs or at all, our ability to accept and fulfill product orders with the required quality, and at the required time could be restricted. This could harm our reputation, reduce our sales or gross margins, and cause us to lose market share, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to successfully manage our growth could strain our management, operational and other resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. Our growth strategy includes building our brand, increasing market penetration of our existing products, developing new products, increasing our targeting of large-sized hospitals in China, and increasing our exports. 12 Table of Contents Pursuing these strategies has resulted in, and will continue to result in substantial demands on management resources. In particular, the management of our growth will require, among other things: • continued enhancement of our research and development capabilities; • hiring and training of new personnel; • information technology system enhancement; • stringent cost controls and sufficient liquidity; • strengthening of financial and management controls and information technology systems; and • increased marketing, sales and sales support activities. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our business and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. We may need additional capital, and we may be unable to obtain such capital in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, or at all. For us to grow, remain competitive, develop new products, and expand our distribution network, we may require additional capital. Our ability to obtain additional capital is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for capital raising activities by medical device and related companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and internationally. We may be unable to obtain additional capital in a timely manner or on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, the terms and amount of any additional capital raised through issuances of equity securities may result in significant shareholder dilution. We depend on information technology, or IT, to support our business operations, the failure of which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. We are currently in the process of implementing an SAP ERP system to replace the existing system of our U.S. and European operations. When we acquired the patient monitoring device business of Datascope, it shared many hardware and software resources with the business of Datascope that we did not acquire and was subsequently acquired by another company. This shared architecture significantly complicates the task of migrating hardware and software to a standalone IT system. The migration may lead to unforeseen complications and expenses, and our failure to efficiently migrate the IT system could substantially disrupt our business. Once the migration is complete, we intend to build a single, globally integrated IT infrastructure consistent across our China, U.S. and European operations. This integration is complicated by broad geographies, differing languages and business models between historic Mindray and our acquired operations. Our failure to successfully integrate our IT systems across our China, U.S. and European operations could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention, which could harm our business and competitive position. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, it could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and non-disclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. We have patents and patent applications pending in China covering various products and aspects of our products. We have patents and have also filed patent applications in the United States and Europe, which cover some of the more commercially significant aspects of our products and technologies. Due to the different regulatory bodies and varying requirements in the United States, China and elsewhere, we may be unable to obtain patent protection for certain aspects of our products or technologies in either or both of these countries. 13 Table of Contents The process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive, our patent applications may fail to result in patents being issued, and our existing and future patents may be insufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Our patents and patent applications may also be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We also rely on trade secret rights to protect our business through non-disclosure provisions in employment agreements with employees. If our China-based employees breach their non-disclosure obligations, we may not have adequate remedies in China, and our trade secrets may become known to our competitors. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and enforcement difficulties. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other western countries. Furthermore, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we may need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. Such litigation and an adverse determination in any such litigation, if any, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention, which could harm our business and competitive position. We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement and other claims by third parties which, if successful, could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing third party intellectual property rights. As we increase our product sales internationally, and as litigation becomes more common in China, we face a higher risk of being the subject of claims for intellectual property infringement, invalidity or indemnification relating to other parties’ proprietary rights. Our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have or may obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in China, the U.S. or Europe. The validity and scope of claims relating to medical device technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, as a result, may be highly uncertain. In addition, the defense of intellectual property suits, including patent infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could cause us to: • pay damage awards; • seek licenses from third parties; • pay ongoing royalties; • redesign our products; or • be restricted by injunctions, each of which could effectively prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business and result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Unauthorized use of our brand names by third parties, and the expenses incurred in developing and preserving the value of our brand name, may adversely affect our business. We regard our brand names as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our brand names by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation, including the perceived quality and reliability of our products. We rely on trademark law, company brand name protection policies, and agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect the value of our brand names. Despite our precautions, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our brand names without authorization. In the past, we have experienced unauthorized use of our brand names in China and have expended resources and the attention and time of our 14 Table of Contents management to successfully prosecute those who used our brand names without authorization. Moreover, litigation may be necessary to protect our brand names. However, because the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of trademarks in the PRC are uncertain and still evolving, we may not be successful in prosecuting these cases. Future litigation could also result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are in the process of registering our brand names and logos as trademarks in countries outside of China. Our registration applications may not be successful in certain countries, which could weaken the protection of our brand names in those countries or may require that we market our products under different names in those countries. If we fail to obtain or maintain applicable regulatory clearances or approvals for our products, or if such clearances or approvals are delayed, we will be unable to commercially distribute and market our products at all or in a timely manner, which could significantly disrupt our business and materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability. The sale and marketing of the medical device products we offer in China are subject to regulation in China and in most other countries where we conduct business. For a significant portion of our sales, we need to obtain and renew licenses and registrations with the PRC State Food and Drug Administration, or SFDA, the United States FDA, and the European regulators administering CE marks in the European Union. The processes for obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals can be lengthy and expensive, and the results are unpredictable. In addition, the relevant regulatory authorities may introduce additional requirements or procedures that have the effect of delaying or prolonging the regulatory clearance or approval for our existing or new products. For example, personnel and policy changes at SFDA has slowed the approval process and delayed some of our planned product launches in 2008. If we are unable to obtain clearances or approvals needed to market existing or new products, or obtain such clearances or approvals in a timely fashion, our business would be significantly disrupted, and our sales and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. See Item 4.B, “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Regulation”. We are subject to product liability exposure and have limited insurance coverage. Any product liability claims or potential safety-related regulatory actions could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our main products are medical devices used in the diagnosis and monitoring of patients, exposing us to potential product liability claims if their use causes or results in, or is alleged to have caused or resulted in, in each case either directly or indirectly, personal injuries or other adverse effects. Any product liability claim or regulatory action could be costly and time-consuming to defend. If successful, product liability claims may require us to pay substantial damages. We maintain limited product liability insurance to cover potential product liability arising from the use of our products. As a result, future liability claims could be excluded or could exceed the coverage limits of our policy. As we expand our sales internationally and increase our exposure to these risks in many countries, we may be unable to maintain sufficient product liability insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A product liability claim or potential safety-related regulatory action, with or without merit, could result in significant negative publicity and materially and adversely affect the marketability of our products and our reputation, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, a material design, manufacturing or quality failure or defect in our products, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny could each warrant a product recall by us and result in increased product liability claims. If authorities in the countries where we sell our products decide that these products failed to conform to applicable quality and safety requirements, we could be subject to regulatory action. In China, violation of PRC product quality and safety requirements may subject us to confiscation of related earnings, penalties, an order to cease sales of the violating product or to cease operations pending rectification. Furthermore, if the violation is determined to be serious, our business license to manufacture or sell violating and other products could be suspended or revoked. 15 Table of Contents Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and could fall below investor expectations, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly depending upon numerous factors. In particular, the first and third quarters of each year historically have lower, and the fourth quarter historically has higher, revenues and operating results than the other quarters of the year. We believe that our weaker first quarter performance has been largely due to the Chinese Lunar New Year holiday and that our weaker third quarter performance has largely been due to summer holidays. We believe our stronger fourth quarter performance has been largely due to our customers spending their remaining annual budget amounts. Other factors that may affect our quarterly results include: • global economic conditions; • our ability to attract and retain distributors and key customers; • changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • variations in customer purchasing cycles; • our sales and delivery cycle length; • the timing and market acceptance of new product introductions by us or our competitors; • our ability to expand into and further penetrate international markets; • the timing of receipt of government incentives; • Inventory value readjustments due to yearend supplier pricing renegotiation; • changes in the industry operating environment; and • changes in government policies or regulations, including new product approval procedures, or their enforcement. Many of these factors are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline below investor expectations. You should not rely on our results of operations for prior quarters as an indication of our future results. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. As of December 31, 2008, our cash and cash equivalents were denominated in Renminbi, U.S. dollars, euro and the British pound. In 2007, we began requiring payment in euro from customers located in jurisdictions where the euro is the official currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates between the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar, the euro and the pound affect our relative purchasing power, revenue, expenses and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi, euro and the pound relative to the U.S. dollar could affect our financial results prepared and reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Renminbi is pegged against a basket of currencies, determined by the People’s Bank of China, against which it can rise or fall by as much as 0.5% each day. The Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar, the euro or the pound in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued, or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, the euro or the pound. Fluctuations in exchange rates will also affect the relative value of any dividends we issue, which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make. Appreciation of the Renminbi relative to other foreign currencies could decrease the per unit revenues generated from international sales. If we increased our international pricing to compensate for the reduced purchasing power of foreign currencies, we would decrease the market competitiveness, on a price basis, of our products. This could result in a decrease in our international sales volumes. 16 Table of Contents Very limited hedging instruments are available in China to reduce our exposure to Renminbi exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into Renminbi hedging transactions, the effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies could magnify our currency exchange risks. While we may enter into hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to other foreign currency exchange risks, the effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. Our revenues and profitability could be materially and adversely affected if there is a disruption in our existing arrangements with our original design manufacturing and original equipment manufacturing customers. In 2007 and 2008, ODM and OEM customers together accounted for 5.9% and 1.1%, respectively, of our net revenues. We have invested significant time and resources in cultivating these relationships. In particular, we are typically required to undergo lengthy product approval processes with these customers, which in some cases can take up to 16 months. The length of the approval process may vary and is affected by a number of factors, including customer priorities, customer budgets and regulatory issues. Delays in the product approval process could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our ODM and OEM customers may develop their own solutions or adopt a competitor’s solution for products that they currently purchase from us. We may be unable to maintain our existing arrangements with our ODM and OEM customers. In particular, any failure in generating orders from these customers or decrease in sales to these customers, as well as any adoption by these customers of their own or our competitors’ product solutions, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal shareholders. Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that our shareholders may view as beneficial. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to five votes per share. As of the date of this annual report, three of our shareholders and their affiliated entities owned approximately 33.5% of our outstanding ordinary shares, representing approximately 68.8% of our voting power due to our dual-class ordinary share structure. Our co-chief executive officers, Mr. Xu Hang and Mr. Li Xiting, and our executive vice president of strategic development, Mr. Cheng Minghe, through their respective affiliates, hold all of our Class B ordinary shares. These shareholders will continue to exert control over all matters subject to shareholder vote until they collectively own less than 20% of our outstanding ordinary shares. This concentration of voting power may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or other business combination, which could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your ADSs as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the trading price of our ADSs. The interests of Mr. Xu, Mr. Li, and Mr. Cheng as officers and employees of our company may differ from their interests as shareholders of our company or from your interests as a shareholder. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares, including Class A ordinary shares represented by ADSs, at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, 17 Table of Contents conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our Class A ordinary shares. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors authorizes the issuance of preferred shares, the trading price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our Class A ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. Certain actions require the approval of at least two-thirds of our board of directors which, among other things, would allow our non-independent directors to block a variety of actions or transactions, such as a merger, asset sale or other change of control, even if our independent directors unanimously voted in favor of such action, thereby further depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. In addition, our directors serve staggered terms of three years each, which means that shareholders can elect or remove only a limited number of our directors in any given year. The length of these terms could present an additional obstacle against the taking of action, such as a merger or other change of control, that could be in the interest of our shareholders. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. Depending upon the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either: (1) the average percentage value of our gross assets during the taxable year that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the value of our total gross assets or (2) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. According to these technical rules, we would likely become a PFIC if the value of our outstanding ordinary shares and ADSs were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents. We believe we were not a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2008. Although we intend to conduct our business activities in a manner to reduce the risk of our classification as a PFIC in the future, we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets, and, because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market prices of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which are likely to fluctuate, there can no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC for 2009 or any future taxable year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor held our ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. investor. For more information on the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see Item 10.E, “Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company”. We may be unable to ensure compliance with United States economic sanctions laws, especially when we sell our products to distributors over which we have limited control. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, administers certain laws and regulations that impose penalties upon U.S. persons and, in some instances, foreign entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons, for conducting activities or transacting business with certain countries, governments, entities or individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions, or U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws. We will not use any proceeds, directly or indirectly, from sales of our ADSs, to fund any activities or business with any country, government, entity or individual with respect to which U.S. persons or, as appropriate, foreign entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons, are prohibited by U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws from conducting such activities or transacting such business. However, we sell our products in international markets through independent non-U.S. distributors which are responsible for interacting with the end-users of our products. Some of these independent non-U.S. distributors are located in or conduct business with countries subject to U.S. economic sanctions such as Cuba, Sudan, Iran, Syria and Myanmar, and we may not be able to ensure that such non-U.S. distributors comply with any applicable U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws. Moreover, if a U.S. distributor or one of our United States subsidiaries, Mindray USA Corp. or Mindray DS USA Inc., conducts activities or transacts business with a country, government, entity or individual subject to U.S. economic sanctions, such actions may violate U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws. As a result of the foregoing, 18 Table of Contents actions could be taken against us that could materially and adversely affect our reputation and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, and as a result we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, requires that we include a report from management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 20-F. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. While our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2008, and our independent registered public accounting firm reported on our internal controls over financial reporting, our management may conclude in the future that our internal controls are not effective. Furthermore, our acquisition of Datascope’s patient monitoring device business presents new Section 404 challenges, as the related financial reporting must be included in our Section 404 assessment for the year ending December 31, 2009. Our or our independent public accounting firm’s failure to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Our reporting obligations as a public company will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting processes, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Changes in China’s economic, political and social condition could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We conduct a substantial majority of our business operations in China and derived approximately half of our 2008 revenues from sales in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected to a significant degree by economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage, but also to control, economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations applicable to us. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Our PRC operating subsidiary, Shenzhen Mindray, is a foreign-invested enterprise and is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China as well as laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. These laws and regulations change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protections that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the 19 Table of Contents contracts we have entered into. As a result, these uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with and obtain approvals from relevant PRC government authorities in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents in connection with our prior and any future offshore acquisitions. The SAFE regulation required registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies prior to the implementation of the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies on November 1, 2005. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. We previously notified and urged our shareholders, and the shareholders of the offshore entities in our corporate group, who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications and filings, as required under this regulation. However, as these regulations are relatively new and there is uncertainty concerning their reconciliation with other approval requirements, it is unclear how they, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. While we believe that these shareholders submitted applications with local SAFE offices, some of our shareholders may not comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by the regulation or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to obtain any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary to fund cash and financing requirements, and limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary Shenzhen Mindray for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. If Shenzhen Mindray incurs debt on its own behalf, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by Shenzhen Mindray only out of its retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, Shenzhen Mindray is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves, together with the registered equity, are not distributable as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2008, the amount of these restricted portions was approximately RMB525.0 million ($76.7 million). As a result of these PRC laws and regulations, Shenzhen Mindray is restricted in its ability to transfer a portion of its net assets to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Limitations on the ability of Shenzhen Mindray to pay dividends to us could adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. 20 Table of Contents Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. A significant portion of our revenues and a majority of our operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, Shenzhen Mindray may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions,” including payment of dividends to us, without the approval of SAFE. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies. Since a significant portion of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside of China denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from, or registration with, SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. This could affect the ability of Shenzhen Mindray to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or the financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Before 2008, China maintained a dual tax system that contained one set of tax rules for PRC domestic enterprises and one for foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs. Though both domestic enterprises and FIEs were subject to the same income tax rate of 33%, there are various preferential tax treatments that were generally only available to FIEs, which resulted in the effective tax rates of FIEs being generally lower than those of domestic enterprises. The PRC government had provided various incentives to Shenzhen Mindray, which is an FIE. These incentives included reduced tax rates and other measures. For example, Shenzhen Mindray enjoyed preferential tax treatment, in the form of reduced tax rates or tax holidays, provided by the PRC government or its local agencies or bureaus. Shenzhen Mindray benefited from a 15% preferential corporate income tax rate and the preferential policy of “two years of exemption and six years of 50% reduction” of corporate income tax from the year it became profitable, resulting in an effective income tax rate of 7.5% through the end of 2006. Beijing Mindray is entitled to an enterprise income tax exemption for three years from its first year of operations and 50% tax reduction for the fourth to sixth year. Without these tax holidays and concessions, we would have had to pay additional tax totaling $4.1 million, $Nil and $Nil in 2006, 2007, and 2008, respectively. The China Unified Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules became effective on January 1, 2008. The New EIT Law significantly curtails tax incentives granted to FIEs under the previous tax law. The New EIT Law, however, (i) reduces the top rate of enterprise income tax from 33% to 25%, (ii) permits companies to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, subject to certain transitional phase-out rules, and (iii) introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. The New EIT Law and its implementing rules permit qualified “New and Hi-Tech Enterprises” to enjoy a reduced 15% EIT rate. The recently published qualification criteria are significantly higher than those prescribed by the old tax rules under which we had been granted preferential treatment. Shenzhen Mindray and Beijing Mindray had obtained the qualification certificates of New and Hi-Tech Enterprises status in 2008 with a valid period of three years starting from 2008 to 2010. However, the continued qualification of a New and Hi-Tech Enterprise for calendar years of 2009 and 2010 will be subject to annual evaluation by the relevant government authority in China. In addition, Shenzhen Mindray and Beijing Mindray will need to apply for an additional three-year extension upon the expiration of the current qualification certificate if they desire to continue to enjoy the 15% reduced rate. We cannot assure you that Shenzhen Mindray and Beijing Mindray will continue to qualify as New and Hi-Tech Enterprises under the New EIT Law, or that the local tax authorities will not, in the future, change their position and revoke any of our past preferential tax treatments. The discontinuation of any of our preferential tax treatments could materially increase our tax obligations. Under the phase-out rules of New EIT Law, enterprises established before the promulgation date of the New EIT Law and which were granted preferential EIT treatment under the then effective tax laws or regulations may continue to enjoy their preferential tax treatments until their expiration. Accordingly, Beijing Mindray, an enterprise established before the promulgation date of the New EIT Law, will continue to enjoy its preferential treatment under the phase-out rules, under which it will continue to enjoy the 50% reduction of the EIT for the taxable years of 2008 to 2010. The 50% reduction may result in a tax rate of 7.5% to 12.5%. 21 Table of Contents In addition, under the New Law, dividends from our PRC subsidiaries for post 2007 retained earnings will be subject to a withholding tax of 5% and 10%, respectively, depending on the percentage of ownership. At this stage, we intend to retain the post 2007 retained earnings in PRC for permanent reinvestment. Should we change the intention in future, we will be required to adjust certain long term deferred tax liabilities which will result in a loss in the period the change takes effect. Pursuant to a PRC tax policy intended to encourage the development of software and integrated circuit industries, our primary operating subsidiary in the PRC, Shenzhen Mindray, was previously entitled to a refund of value-added tax paid at a rate of 14% of the sale value of self-developed software that is embedded in our products. In 2006, due to changed regulation by the PRC government, sales of our embedded software were temporarily disqualified from receiving the value-added tax refund. In July 2008, pursuant to Cai Shui [2008] No. 92 jointly issued by the PRC government’s Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation, we were able to receive a value-added tax refund for sales of our embedded software on a retroactive basis since 2006. Refund due from sales of our embedded software during January 2006 to July 2008 amounting to $21.8 million was received in 2008. Any increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to us or discontinuation or reduction of any of the preferential tax treatments or financial incentives currently enjoyed by our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entity could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Under the New EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Under the New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with its “de facto management body” in China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated the same as a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law defines “de facto management body” as an organization that exercises “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of an enterprise. Currently no interpretation or application of the New EIT Law and its implementing rules is available for non-Chinese enterprises or group enterprise controlled entities; therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our Cayman Islands holding company is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we will be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. This would mean that income such as interest earned on funds held by our holding company and other non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%, in comparison to no taxation in the Cayman Islands. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, a 10% withholding tax will be imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders, and future guidance may extend the withholding tax to gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from transferring our ADSs or ordinary shares. 