Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business may be adversely affected by changing economic conditions beyond our control, including decreases in construction or industrial activities. The heavy crane rental industry’s revenue is closely tied to conditions in the end markets in which Essex Crane’s customers operate and more broadly to general economic conditions. Essex Crane’s products are used primarily in infrastructure-related projects and other non-residential construction projects in a variety of industries (including the power, transportation infrastructure, petrochemical, municipal construction and industrial and marine industries). Consequently, the economic downturn, and particularly the weakness in Essex Crane’s end markets may lead to a significant decrease in demand for its equipment or depress equipment rental and utilization rates and the sales prices for equipment we sell. During periods of expansion in Essex Crane’s end markets, Essex Crane generally has benefited from increased demand for its products. Conversely, during recessionary periods in Essex Crane’s end markets, Essex has been adversely affected by reduced demand for its products. Weakness in Essex Crane’s end markets, such as a decline in non-residential construction, infrastructure projects or industrial activity, may in the future lead to a decrease in the demand for Essex Crane’s equipment or the rental rates or prices it can charge. Factors that may cause weakness in Essex Crane’s end markets include but are not limited to: 12 · slowdowns in non-residential construction in the geographic regions in which Essex Crane operates; · reductions in corporate spending for plants, factories and other facilities; and · reductions in government spending on highways and other infrastructure projects. Future declines in non-residential construction, infrastructure projects and industrial activity could adversely affect Essex Crane’s operating results by decreasing its revenues and profit margins. Continued weakness or further deterioration in the non-residential construction and industrial sectors caused by these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the future and may also have a material adverse effect on residual values realized on the disposition of our rental fleet. Declines in Essex Crane’s order backlog should be considered as an indication of a decline in the strength of the non-residential construction markets. The current worldwide economic downturn may have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The current worldwide economic downturn — which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide and concerns that the worldwide economy may enter into a prolonged recessionary period — make it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could reduce the utilization rate of our fleet. Alternatively, this forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of equipment available for rental that could result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products and a loss of market share. Fluctuations in the stock market, as well as general economic and market conditions, may impact the market price of our securities. The market price of our securities have been and may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to general economic changes and other factors including, but not limited to: · variations in our quarterly operating results or results that vary from investor expectations; · changes in the strategy and actions taken by our competitors, including pricing changes; · securities analysts’ elections to not cover our common stock, or, if analysts do elect to cover our common stock, changes in financial estimates by analysts, or a downgrade of our common stock or of our sector by analysts; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · loss of a large supplier; · investor perceptions of us and the equipment rental and distribution industry; · our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and consolidations; and · national or regional catastrophes or circumstances and natural disasters, hostilities and acts of terrorism. Broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our securities, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, including to those listed above and others, may harm the market price of our securities. 13 We are dependent upon key personnel whose loss may adversely impact Essex Crane’s business and our results of operations. We depend on the expertise, experience and continued services of Essex Crane’s senior management employees, especially Ronald Schad, Essex Crane’s and the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Martin Kroll, Essex Crane’s and the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and Essex Crane’s Senior Vice President, William Erwin, Essex Crane’s Vice President Operations and Customer Support and William O’Rourke, Essex Crane’s Vice President Sales and Account Management. Mr. Schad has acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Essex Crane and its operations and most decisions concerning the business of Essex Crane will be made or significantly influenced by him. The loss of Mr. Schad, Mr. Kroll, Mr. Erwin or Mr. O’Rourke or other senior management employees, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. We seek to compensate and incentivize our key executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries and bonus plans, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key employees or hire new key employees. As a result, if Messrs. Schad, Kroll, Erwin, and/or O’Rourke were to leave Essex Crane, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successors obtain the necessary training and experience. In connection with the acquisition, we entered into three-year employment agreements with each of Messrs. Schad, Kroll, Erwin and O’Rourke. However, there can be no assurance that the terms of these employment agreements will be sufficient to retain Messrs. Schad, Kroll, Erwin and/or O’Rourke. Our dependence on a small number of crane manufacturers poses a significant risk to our business and prospects. Essex Crane’s crane fleet has historically been comprised of only Manitowoc and Liebherr crawler cranes. Given Essex Crane’s reliance on two manufacturers for its entire fleet of crawler cranes, and limited alternative sources of crawler cranes, if either of these manufacturers were unable to meet expected manufacturing timeframes due to, for example, natural disasters or labor strikes, Essex Crane may experience a significant increase in lead times to acquire new equipment or may be unable to acquire such equipment at all. Any inability to acquire the model types or quantities of new equipment on a timely basis to replace older, less utilized equipment would adversely impact our future financial condition or results of operations. In addition, Essex Crane has developed strong relationships with Manitowoc and Liebherr. There can be no assurance that Essex Crane will be able to maintain its relationships with these suppliers. Termination of Essex Crane’s relationship with these suppliers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations if such termination resulted in Essex Crane being unable to obtain adequate rental and sales equipment from other sources in a timely manner or at all. The cost of new equipment Essex Crane uses in its rental fleet may increase, which may cause us to spend significantly more for replacement equipment, and in some cases we may not be able to procure equipment at all due to supplier constraints. Essex Crane’s business model is capital intensive and requires significant continual investment in new cranes to meet customer demand. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be significantly impacted by a material change in the pricing of new cranes that we acquire. Such changes may be driven by a number of factors which include, but are not limited to: · steel prices – due to the high tensile steel component of the cranes, significant changes in the price of steel can materially change the cost of acquiring a crane; · global demand – the market for crawler cranes is global and significant growth in overseas demand for cranes could materially increase the cost of new cranes regardless of US economic conditions; · inflation – overall inflationary conditions in the US may impact the operating costs of one of Essex Crane’s key crane suppliers and therefore impact crane pricing for customers such as Essex Crane; and · currency fluctuations – as one of our principal suppliers is based in Europe, devaluation of the US dollar (as compared to the Euro) may materially increase the cost of acquiring cranes and attachments; conversely, inflation of the value of the US dollar may adversely affect Essex Crane’s revenues from international sales of used cranes and attachments. 14 While Essex Crane can manage the size and aging of its fleet generally over time, eventually it must replace older equipment in its fleet with newer models. We would be adversely impacted if Essex Crane were unable to procure crawler cranes to allow it to replace our older and smaller capacity crawler cranes over time as anticipated. If we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing equipment and to acquiring new rental locations. Our ability to compete, sustain our growth and expand our operations through new locations largely depends on access to capital. If the cash we generate from Essex Crane’s business, together with cash on hand and cash that we may borrow under Essex Crane’s credit facility or short-term debt obtained by Essex Finance is not sufficient to implement our growth strategy and meet our capital needs, we will require additional financing. However, we may not succeed in obtaining additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing collateralized by Essex Crane’s assets and Essex Crane’s ability to obtain additional financing on a secured or unsecured basis are restricted by Essex Crane’s credit facility. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing cranes and attachments and to new service locations or storage yards. Furthermore, any additional indebtedness that we do incur may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. If we are successful in our efforts to expand our operations, through new locations, acquisitions or additional equipment, such expansion may result in risks and costs associated with business start-up and integration. The opening of new service locations or storage yards or the completion of any future acquisitions of other equipment rental companies may result in significant start-up or transaction expenses and risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience. New service locations and storage yards require significant up-front capital expenditures and may require a significant investment of our management’s time to successfully commence operations. New locations may also require a significant amount of time to provide an adequate return on capital invested, if any. In addition, in the event that Essex Crane were to acquire different types of cranes and attachments than those it currently rents, or different classes of rental equipment, there can be no assurance that our customers would choose to rent such items from us or would do so at such rates or on such terms, that would be acceptable to us. Our ability to realize the expected benefits from any future acquisitions of other equipment rental companies depends in large part on our ability to integrate and consolidate the new operations with our existing operations in a timely and effective manner. In addition, we may fail or be unable to discover certain liabilities of any acquired business, including liabilities relating to noncompliance with environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Any significant diversion of management’s attention from our existing operations, the loss of key employees or customers of any acquired business, or any major difficulties encountered in opening new locations or integrating new operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The crane rental industry is competitive. The crane rental industry is highly fragmented and is served by companies who focus almost exclusively on crane and lifting equipment rental. Essex Crane competes directly with regional, and local crane rental companies and a limited number of national crane rental companies (including ALL Erection & Crane, Lampson International and Maxim Crane Works). There can be no assurance that Essex will not encounter increased competition from existing competitors or new market entrants (including a newly-formed competitor created by consolidating several existing regional competitors) that may be significantly larger and have greater financial and marketing resources. Our management believes that rental rates, fleet availability and size and quality are the primary competitive factors in the crane rental industry. From time to time, Essex Crane or its competitors may attempt to compete aggressively by lowering rental rates or prices or offering more favorable rental terms. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by decreasing Essex Crane’s market share or depressing the rental rates. To the extent Essex Crane lowers rental rates, offers different rental terms or increases its fleet in order to retain or increase market share, Essex Crane’s operating margins would be adversely impacted. 15 Our status as a public company may be a competitive disadvantage. We are and will continue to be subject to the disclosure and reporting requirements of applicable US securities laws and rules promulgated by The NASDAQ Stock Market. Many of Essex’s principal competitors are not subject to these disclosure and reporting requirements or the NASDAQ rules. As a result, we may be required to disclose certain information and expend funds on disclosure and financial and other controls that may put Essex Crane at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. We may encounter substantial competition in our efforts to expand our operations. An element of our growth strategy is to continue to expand by opening new service centers and equipment storage yards. The success of our growth strategy depends in part on identifying sites for new locations at attractive prices. Zoning restrictions may in the future prevent Essex Crane from being able to open new service centers or storage yards at sites it has identified. We may also encounter substantial competition in our efforts to acquire other crane rental companies, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities and lead to higher acquisition costs. The crane rental industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by Essex Crane’s insurance. Essex Crane may not be adequately insured against all risks and there can be no assurance that its insurers will pay a particular claim. Even if its insurance coverage is adequate to cover its losses, Essex Crane may not be able to timely obtain a replacement crane in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, Essex Crane may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for its fleet. Essex Crane’s insurance policies will also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although management believes are standard in the heavy lift crane rental industry, may nevertheless increase its costs. Moreover, certain accidents or other occurrences may result in intangible damages (such as damage to our reputation) for which insurance may not provide an adequate remedy. Essex Crane may not be able to renew its insurance coverage on terms favorable to it that could lead to increased costs in the event of future claims. When Essex Crane’s current insurance policies expire, it may be unable to renew such coverage upon terms acceptable to it, if at all. If Essex Crane is able to renew Essex Crane’s coverage it expects that the premium rates and deductibles may increase as a result of general rate increases for this type of insurance as well as its historical claims experience and that of Essex Crane’s competitors in the industry. If we cannot obtain insurance coverage, it could adversely affect Essex Crane’s business by increasing its costs with respect to any claims. Additionally, existing or future claims may exceed the level of Essex Crane’s present insurance, and its insurance may not continue to be available on economically reasonable or desirable terms, if at all. Essex Crane may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet its debt service obligations. Essex Crane’s ability to make payments on its indebtedness will depend on its ability to generate cash from its future operations. As of December 31, 2009, Essex Crane has a revolving credit facility which provides for an aggregate debt facility of $190.0 million of which $131.9 million is outstanding. This facility is secured by a first priority lien on all of Essex Crane’s assets and, in the event of default; the lenders generally would be entitled to seize the collateral. In the event of a prolonged economic downturn, Essex Crane’s business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or from other sources to enable it to repay its indebtedness and to fund its other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements and may not be able to refinance any of its indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If Essex Crane cannot service or refinance its indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as asset divestitures, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, Essex Crane may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In the event we incur further debt obligations in relation to acquisitions, or for any other purpose, the exposure to the risks outlined above will increase accordingly. 16 Essex Crane’s loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that will limit Essex Crane’s corporate activities. Essex Crane’s loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions that will limit Essex Crane’s ability to: · create additional liens on their assets; · make investments and capital expenditures above a certain threshold; · incur additional indebtedness; · engage in mergers or acquisitions; · pay dividends or redeem outstanding capital stock; · sell any of Essex Crane’s cranes or any other assets outside the ordinary course of business; and · change its business. Essex Crane will need to seek permission from its lender in order for Essex Crane to engage in some corporate actions. Essex Crane’s lender’s interests may be different from those of Essex Crane, and no assurance can be given that Essex Crane will be able to obtain its lender’s permission when needed. This may prevent Essex Crane from taking certain actions that are in its best interests. Essex Crane is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may result in its incurring unanticipated liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our operating performance. Federal, state and local authorities subject Essex Crane’s facilities and operations to requirements relating to environmental protection. These requirements can be expected to change and expand in the future, and may impose significant capital and operating costs on Essex Crane’s business. Environmental laws and regulations govern, among other things, the discharge of substances into the air, water and land, the handling, storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of properties affected by pollutants. If Essex Crane violates environmental laws or regulations, it may be required to implement corrective actions and could be subject to civil or criminal fines or penalties. There can be no assurance that Essex Crane will not have to make significant capital expenditures in the future in order to remain in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or that Essex Crane will comply with applicable environmental laws at all times. Such violations or liability could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws also impose obligations and liability for the investigation and cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substance spills or releases. Essex Crane can be subject to liability for the disposal of substances which it generates and for substances disposed of on property which it owns or operates, even if such disposal occurred before its ownership or occupancy. Accordingly, Essex Crane may become liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for investigation, remediation and monitoring costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by Essex Crane, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to Essex Crane’s ownership or operation of the property. In addition, because environmental laws frequently impose joint and several liability on all responsible parties, Essex Crane may be held liable for more than its proportionate share of environmental investigation and cleanup costs. Contamination and exposure to hazardous substances can also result in claims for damages, including personal injury, property damage, and natural resources damage claims. Some of Essex Crane’s properties contain, or previously contained, above-ground or underground storage tanks and/or oil-water separators. Given the nature of Essex Crane’s operations (which involve the use and disposal of petroleum products, solvents and other hazardous substances for fueling and maintaining its cranes, attachments and vehicles) and the historical operations at some of its properties, Essex Crane may incur material costs associated with soil or groundwater contamination. Future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to remediation liabilities or other claims that may be material. Environmental requirements may become stricter or be interpreted and applied more strictly in the future. In addition, Essex Crane may be required to indemnify other parties for adverse environmental conditions that are now unknown to us. These future changes or interpretations, or the indemnification for such adverse environmental conditions, could result in environmental compliance or remediation costs not anticipated by us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Essex Crane is subject to numerous occupational health and safety laws and regulations that may result in its incurring unanticipated liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our operating performance. Essex Crane’s operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to occupational safety and health, most notably standards promulgated by the Occupational, Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA. Essex Crane is subject to various OSHA regulations that primarily deal with maintaining a safe work-place environment. OSHA regulations require Essex Crane, among other things, to maintain documentation of work-related injuries, illnesses and fatalities and files for recordable events, complete workers compensation loss reports and review the status of outstanding worker compensation claims, and complete certain annual filings and postings. Essex Crane may be involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and investigation with these governmental agencies, including inspections and audits by the applicable agencies related to its compliance with these requirements. To date, Essex Crane’s compliance with these and other applicable safety regulations has not had a material effect on its, Holdings’ or our results of operations or financial condition. Essex Crane’s failure, however, to comply with these and other applicable requirements in the future could result in fines and penalties to Essex Crane and require it to undertake certain remedial actions or be subject to a suspension of its business, which, if significant, could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations. Moreover, Essex Crane’s mere involvement in any audits and investigations or other proceedings could result in substantial financial cost to us and divert our management’s attention. Several recent highly-publicized accidents involving cranes (none of which involved cranes or attachments provided by Essex Crane) could result in more stringent enforcement of work-place safety regulations, especially with respect to companies which rent older cranes and attachments. Additionally, future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, new laws or regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to Essex Crane, may give rise to additional compliance or remedial costs that could be material. Safety requirements may become stricter or be interpreted and applied more strictly in the future. These future changes or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There are a substantial number of shares of our common stock available for resale in the future that may cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In connection with our acquisition of Essex Crane, Holdings issued its Class A Membership Interests to members of Essex Crane’s senior management. Such membership interests may be exchanged for up to an aggregate of 632,911 shares of our common stock, subject to certain adjustments. We have granted registration rights to Essex Crane’s senior management with respect to the shares of our common stock issuable upon exchange of the Retained Interests, which entitle Essex Crane’s senior management to file a registration statement with respect to such shares under certain circumstances, including upon demand after the October 31, 2010. We also expect to file a registration statement with respect to the 1,272,500 shares of our common stock held by Kirtland Capital Company III LLC and Kirtland Capital Partners III LP at such time as we and Kirtland believe that market conditions would be conducive to such registration. In addition, warrants to purchase an aggregate of 13,295,781 shares of our common stock issued to our initial stockholders, purchasers in our initial public offering and EarlyBirdCapital, Inc. (excluding 1,741,719 shares of our common stock that would have been issuable upon exercise of warrants repurchased by us between November 1, 2008 and December 31, 2009) became exercisable upon the closing of the acquisition of Essex Crane. All of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants will be available for resale upon exercise. Lastly, 2,812,500 shares of our common stock purchased by our initial stockholders prior to our initial public offering were released from escrow in November 2009 and are eligible for resale in the public market subject to compliance with applicable law. Our initial stockholders are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their shares of common stock at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, upon exercise of options and warrants to purchase our common stock, the equity interests of our stockholders, as a percentage of the total number of the outstanding shares of common stock, and the net book value of the shares of our common stock will be significantly diluted. 18 We may issue shares of our common stock and preferred stock to raise additional capital, including to complete a future business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 40,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. We currently have 10,815,500 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants (net of repurchases), employee stock options and unit purchase options, and the number of shares issuable upon exchange of the Retained Interests) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we currently have no other commitments to issue any additional shares of our common or preferred stock, we may in the future determine to issue additional shares of our common or preferred stock to raise additional capital for a variety of purposes, including to complete a future acquisition. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock may significantly reduce the equity interest of stockholders and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 