Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business may be adversely affected by changing economic conditions beyond our control, including decreases in construction or industrial activities. The crane and equipment rental and distribution industry’s revenue is closely tied to conditions in the end markets in which our customers operate and more broadly to general economic conditions. Our products are used primarily in infrastructure-related projects and other construction projects in a variety of industries (including the power, transportation infrastructure, petrochemical, municipal construction and industrial and marine industries). Consequently, the economic downturn and particularly the weakness in our end markets may lead to a significant decrease in demand for our equipment or depress equipment rental and utilization rates and the sales prices for equipment we sell. During periods of expansion in our respective end markets, we generally have benefited from increased demand for our products. Conversely, during recessionary periods in our end markets, we have been adversely affected by reduced demand for our products. Weakness in our end markets, such as a decline in non-residential construction, infrastructure projects or industrial activity, may in the future lead to a decrease in the demand for our equipment or the rental rates or prices we can charge. Factors that may cause weakness in our end markets include but are not limited to: •slowdowns in construction in the geographic regions in which we operate;•reductions in residential and commercial building construction;•reductions in corporate spending for plants, factories and other facilities; and•reductions in government spending on highways and other infrastructure projects.Future declines in construction, infrastructure projects and industrial activity could adversely affect our operating results by decreasing revenues and profit margins. Continued weakness or further deterioration in the construction and industrial sectors caused by these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the future and may also have a material adverse effect on residual values realized on the disposition of our rental fleet. Declines in our order backlog should be considered as an indication of a decline in the strength of the non-residential construction markets. Fluctuations in the stock market, as well as general economic and market conditions, may impact the market price of our securities. The market price of our securities has been and may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to general economic changes and other factors including, but not limited to: •variations in our quarterly operating results or results that vary from investor expectations;•changes in the strategy and actions taken by our competitors, including pricing changes;•securities analysts’ elections to not cover our common stock, or, if analysts do elect to cover our common stock, changes in financial estimates by analysts, or a downgrade of our common stock or of our sector by analysts;•announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;•loss of a large supplier;12Table of Contents•investor perceptions of us and the equipment rental and distribution industry;•our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and consolidations; and•national or regional catastrophes or circumstances and natural disasters, hostilities and acts of terrorism.Broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our securities, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, including to those listed above and others, may affect the market price of our securities. We are dependent upon key personnel whose loss may adversely impact our business and our results of operations. We depend on the expertise, experience and continued services of our senior management employees, especially Nick Matthews, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Kory Glen, our Chief Financial Officer, as well as senior management employees of our operating subsidiaries. Mr. Matthews has acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to our and our subsidiaries’ operations and most decisions concerning our business are made or significantly influenced by him. The loss of any of the foregoing individuals or other senior management employees, without a proper succession plan, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. We seek to compensate and incentivize our key executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries and bonus plans, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key employees or hire new key employees. As a result, if Messrs. Matthews or Glen, or other senior executives of our operating subsidiaries were to leave, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successors obtain the necessary training and experience. In connection with the acquisition of Essex Crane, we entered into three-year employment agreements with William Erwin and William O’Rourke, two members of Essex Crane's senior management. Each such employment agreement has been renewed and extended in accordance with its terms, and will be renewed and extended automatically for successive one year periods, unless either party to the applicable employment agreement provides ninety days advance notice that such extension will not take effect at the end of the then-applicable term. These contracts are scheduled to expire in October 2014, subject to the renewal provisions contained therein. As of the date of this filing, we have not entered into employment agreements with any other members of senior management. On November 11, 2013, Ron Schad, our former President and Chief Executive Officer resigned from the Company. Mr. Schad will continue to serve in an advisory role as we transition to our new Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Schad will also continue to serve on Essex's Board of Directors through his current term. In conjunction with Mr. Schad's resignation, his employment agreement was terminated and Mr. Schad and the Company entered into an Employment Separation Agreement and Release. Our dependence on a small number of crane manufacturers poses a significant risk to our business and prospects. Our lattice boom crawler crane fleet has historically been comprised of only Manitowoc and Liebherr cranes. Similarly, our rough terrain, boom truck and tower crane fleet of cranes available for rent has been comprised primarily of cranes provided by Grove, Tadano, Sany, Terex, Manitex, National and Potain. In addition, we serve as a distributor of Broderson, JLG, Little Giant, Lull, Manitex, Mantis, Potain, Sany, Tadano and Terex lifting equipment. Our distribution business depends upon our exclusive dealer partnerships with leading crane and equipment manufacturing companies and many of such relationships can typically be terminated on short notice. Given our reliance on a limited number of manufacturers for a majority of our rental fleet and distribution activities, and limited alternative sources of cranes, if any of these manufacturers were unable to meet expected manufacturing timeframes due to, for example, natural disasters or labor strikes, we may experience a significant increase in lead times to acquire new equipment or may be unable to acquire such equipment at all. Any inability to acquire the model types or quantities of new equipment on a timely basis to replace older, less utilized equipment could adversely impact our future financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we have developed strong relationships with the manufacturers that provide our rental equipment, manufacturers that we represent as a distributor and our other strategic partners. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our relationships with these suppliers. Termination of our relationships with these suppliers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations if such termination resulted in our being unable to obtain adequate rental and sales equipment from other sources in a timely manner or at all. The cost of new equipment we use in our rental fleet may increase, which may cause us to spend significantly more for replacement equipment, and in some cases we may not be able to procure equipment at all due to supplier constraints. Our business model is capital intensive and requires significant ongoing investment in new cranes and equipment to meet customer demand. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be significantly impacted by a material change in the pricing of new cranes and equipment that we acquire. Such changes may be driven by a number of factors which include, 13Table of Contentsbut are not limited to:•steel prices – due to the high tensile steel component of the cranes, significant changes in the price of steel can materially change the cost of acquiring a crane;•global demand – the market for crawler cranes is global and significant growth in overseas demand for cranes could materially increase the cost of new cranes regardless of U.S. economic conditions;•inflation – overall inflationary conditions in the U.S. may impact the operating costs of one of our key suppliers and therefore impact the cost of cranes or other lifting equipment that we acquire; and•currency fluctuations – as two of our principal suppliers are based in Europe and Japan, devaluation of the U.S. dollar (as compared to the Euro or the Yen) may materially increase the cost of acquiring cranes and attachments; conversely, inflation of the value of the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our revenues from international sales of used cranes and attachments and adversely affect our revenues from sales of new and used cranes, spare parts and related equipment to the extent that inflation allows foreign suppliers to offer competing products on more attractive terms.While we can manage the size and aging of our fleet generally over time, eventually we must replace older equipment in our fleet with newer models. We would be adversely impacted if we were unable to procure cranes to allow us to replace our older and, in the case of our lattice boom crawler crane assets, smaller capacity crawler cranes over time as anticipated. If we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing equipment and to acquiring new rental locations. Our ability to compete, sustain our growth and expand our operations through new locations largely depends on access to capital. If the cash we generate from the operations of Essex Crane and Coast Crane, together with cash on hand and cash that we may borrow under their respective credit facilities, or short-term debt obtained by either Essex Crane, Essex Finance or Coast Crane is not sufficient to implement our growth strategy and meet our capital needs, we will require additional financing. However, we may not succeed in obtaining additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing collateralized by the assets of Essex Crane and Coast Crane and our ability to obtain additional financing on a secured or unsecured basis are restricted by Essex Crane’s and Coast Crane’s respective credit facilities. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing crane attachments and other lifting equipment and to new service locations or storage yards. Furthermore, any additional indebtedness that we do incur may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. If we are successful in our efforts to expand our operations, through new locations, acquisitions or additional equipment, such expansion may result in risks and costs associated with business start-up and integration. The opening of new service locations or storage yards or the completion of any future acquisitions of other equipment rental companies may result in significant start-up or transaction expenses and risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience. New service locations and storage yards require significant up-front capital expenditures and may require a significant investment of our management’s time to successfully commence operations. New locations may also require a significant amount of time to provide an adequate return on capital invested, if any. In addition, in the event that we were to acquire different types of cranes, attachments or other lifting equipment than those we currently rent, or different classes of rental equipment, there can be no assurance that our customers would choose to rent such items from us or would do so at such rates or on such terms, that would be acceptable to us. Our ability to realize the expected benefits from prior or future acquisitions of other equipment rental companies depends in large part on our ability to integrate and consolidate the new operations with our existing operations in a timely and effective manner and to otherwise implement our business plan for the combined business. In addition, we may fail or be unable to discover certain liabilities of any acquired business, including liabilities relating to noncompliance with environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Any significant diversion of management’s attention from our existing operations, the loss of key employees or customers of any acquired business, or any major difficulties encountered in opening new locations or integrating new operations, including, but not limited to those arising from inconsistencies in controls, procedures or company policies, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The equipment rental, distribution and repair service industries are competitive. The equipment rental and distribution industries are highly fragmented. The crane rental industry is served by companies who focus almost exclusively on crane and lifting equipment rental. We compete directly with regional, and local crane rental 14Table of Contentscompanies and a limited number of national crane rental companies (including ALL Erection & Crane Rental, AmQuip Crane Corp., Bigge Crane and Rigging, Co., Lampson International, Maxim Crane Works, Morrow Equipment Rental and Western Pacific Crane and Equipment). There can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition from existing competitors or new market entrants (including a newly-formed competitor created by consolidating several existing regional competitors) that may be significantly larger and have greater financial and marketing resources. Our management believes that rental rates, fleet availability and size and quality are the primary competitive factors in the crane rental industry. Our management also believes that price, equipment mix and the quality and availability of post-sale repair and spare part services are the primary competitive factors in the crane distribution industry. From time to time, we or our competitors may attempt to compete aggressively by lowering rental rates or prices or offering more favorable rental or sale terms. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by decreasing our market share or depressing the rental rates or sale prices for our equipment. To the extent we lower rental rates or sale prices, offer different rental or sale terms or increase our fleet in order to retain or increase market share, our operating margins would be adversely impacted. Our status as a public company may be a competitive disadvantage. We are and will continue to be subject to the disclosure and reporting requirements of applicable U.S. securities laws and rules promulgated by The NASDAQ Stock Market. Many of our principal competitors are not subject to these disclosure and reporting requirements or the NASDAQ rules. As a result, we may be required to disclose certain information and expend funds on disclosure and financial and other controls that may put us at a competitive disadvantage to our principal competitors. We may encounter substantial competition in our efforts to expand our operations. An element of our growth strategy is to continue to expand by opening new service centers and equipment storage yards. The success of our growth strategy depends in part on identifying sites for new locations at attractive prices. Zoning restrictions may in the future prevent us from being able to open new service centers or storage yards at sites we have identified. We may also encounter substantial competition in our efforts to acquire other crane rental companies, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities and lead to higher acquisition costs. The crane rental industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance. We may not be adequately insured against all risks and there can be no assurance that our insurers will pay a particular claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement crane in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. Our insurance policies will also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although management believes are standard in the heavy lift crane rental industry, may nevertheless increase our costs. Moreover, certain accidents or other occurrences may result in intangible damages (such as damage to our reputation) for which insurance may not provide an adequate remedy. We may not be able to renew our insurance coverage on terms favorable to us that could lead to increased costs in the event of future claims. When our current insurance policies expire, we may be unable to renew such coverage upon terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are able to renew our coverage we expect that the premium rates and deductibles may increase as a result of general rate increases for this type of insurance as well as our historical claims experience and that of our competitors in the industry. If we cannot obtain insurance coverage, it could adversely affect our business by increasing our costs with respect to any claims. Additionally, existing or future claims may exceed the level of our present insurance, and our insurance may not continue to be available on economically reasonable or desirable terms, if at all. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash from future operations. As of December 31, 2013, Essex Crane had a revolving credit facility which provided for an aggregate borrowing capacity of $170.1 million, of which $148.1 million was outstanding, and Coast Crane had a revolving credit facility which provided for an aggregate borrowing capacity of $75.0 million, of which $55.8 million was outstanding. Each facility is secured by a first priority lien on all of the applicable borrower’s assets and, in the event of default; the lenders generally would be entitled to seize the collateral. We also have approximately $6.6 million of other term debt, $3.7 million of which is unsecured while the remaining amount is secured by specific equipment.The maximum commitment under the Essex Crane Revolving Credit Facility may not exceed $165.0 million, $150.0 15Table of Contentsmillion and $130.0 million beginning on March 31, 2014, March 31, 2015 and February 28, 2016, respectively, and the Company is required to have availability in excess of 10% of the outstanding commitment. The Company may use the proceeds from crawler crane assets sales, including proceeds from the sealed bid auction scheduled to take place on March 18, 2014, cash flows generated by operations or other financing sources to help meet the commitment reduction. In the event of a prolonged economic downturn, our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or from other sources to enable it to repay its indebtedness and to fund its other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements and may not be able to refinance any of its indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot service or refinance our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as asset divestitures, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In the event we or any of our subsidiaries incur further debt obligations in relation to acquisitions, or for any other purpose, the exposure to the risks outlined above will increase accordingly. Decreases in the appraised value of our rental fleet and other assets securing our revolving credit facilities may result in an inability to meet our financial obligations. The amounts available for borrowing under our revolving credit facilities are determined based on the value of assets securing those obligations, including rental equipment, company vehicles, parts and equipment inventories and accounts receivables. The value of rental equipment and company vehicles are determined based on the opinion of an independent appraisal firm engaged by the respective financial institutions. A decline in the appraised value of these assets would directly impact our liquidity and as a result, we may not be able to meet our financial obligations. Our revolving credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that will limit our corporate activities. The revolving credit facilities of Essex Crane and Coast Crane impose operating and financial restrictions that will limit, among other things, their ability to: •create additional liens on their assets;•make investments and capital expenditures above a certain threshold;•incur additional indebtedness;•engage in mergers or acquisitions;•pay dividends or redeem outstanding capital stock;•sell any of their respective cranes or any other assets outside the ordinary course of business; and•change their respective businesses.Essex Crane and Coast Crane will need to seek permission from their respective lenders in order for Essex Crane or Coast Crane, as applicable, to engage in some corporate actions. Essex Crane’s and Coast Crane’s lender’s interests may be different from those of Essex Crane or Coast Crane, and no assurance can be given that Essex Crane or Coast Crane will be able to obtain their lender’s permission when needed. This may prevent Essex Crane or Coast Crane from taking certain actions that are in their best interests.During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company initiated the process of placing certain crawler crane rental equipment assets into a sealed bid auction, which differs from an absolute auction in that the seller has the right to approve any sales. Certain provisions within the Essex Crane Revolving Credit Facility limit the Company's ability to sell any individual rental equipment asset, or any group of assets in any six month period, for amounts below a certain percentage of orderly liquidation value. Any sale of assets at the option of the Company for values below these thresholds would be dependent upon receiving a waiver from the Essex Crane Revolving Credit Facility lenders, which is not assured. We depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments.Essex Rental Corp. is a holding company with no material assets other than the equity of its subsidiaries. We conduct all of our material operations through our subsidiaries. As a result, we rely on dividends and distributions to us from our subsidiaries, Essex Crane, Coast Crane and Holdings. Our subsidiaries may not generate sufficient earnings or cash flows to make distributions or pay dividends to us. In addition, Essex Crane’s and Coast Crane’s existing credit facilities limit Essex Crane’s, Coast Crane’s 16Table of Contentsand Holdings’ ability to declare and pay dividends or make distributions on account of their capital stock and membership interests, and any debt instruments that the Company or its subsidiaries may enter into in the future may limit our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to us and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. In the event that we do not receive distributions or dividends from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to meet our financial obligations or pay dividends to our stockholders in the future.If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and our stock price may be adversely affected. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. Any system of internal control over financial reporting, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Therefore, we cannot assure you that in the future material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not exist or otherwise be discovered. Any weaknesses or deficiencies could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our consolidated financial statements, a decline in our stock price and investor confidence, or other material effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may result in us incurring unanticipated liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our operating performance. Federal, state and local authorities subject our facilities and operations to requirements relating to environmental protection. These requirements can be expected to change and expand in the future, and may impose significant capital and operating costs on our business. Environmental laws and regulations govern, among other things, the discharge of substances into the air, water and land, the handling, storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of properties affected by pollutants. If the Company violates environmental laws or regulations, it may be required to implement corrective actions and could be subject to civil or criminal fines or penalties. There can be no assurance that the Company will not have to make significant capital expenditures in the future in order to remain in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or that the company will comply with applicable environmental laws at all times. Such violations or liability could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws also impose obligations and liability for the investigation and cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substance spills or releases. The Company can be subject to liability for the disposal of substances which it generates and for substances disposed of on property which it owns or operates, even if such disposal occurred before its ownership or occupancy. Accordingly, the Company may become liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for investigation, remediation and monitoring costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by the Company, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to the Company’s ownership or operation of the property. In addition, because environmental laws frequently impose joint and several liability on all responsible parties, the Company may be held liable for more than its proportionate share of environmental investigation and cleanup costs. Contamination and exposure to hazardous substances can also result in claims for damages, including personal injury, property damage, and natural resources damage claims. Some of the properties contain, or previously contained, above-ground or underground storage tanks and/or oil-water separators. Given the nature of the operations of the Company (which involve the use and disposal of petroleum products, solvents and other hazardous substances for fueling and maintaining its cranes, attachments and vehicles) and the historical operations at some of its properties, the Company may incur material costs associated with soil or groundwater contamination. Future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to remediation liabilities or other claims that may be material. Environmental requirements may become stricter or be interpreted and applied more strictly in the future. In addition, the Company may be required to indemnify other parties for adverse environmental conditions that are now unknown to us. These future changes or interpretations, or the indemnification for such adverse environmental conditions, could result in environmental compliance or remediation costs not anticipated by us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to numerous occupational health and safety laws and regulations that may result in us incurring unanticipated liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our operating performance. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to occupational safety and health, most notably standards promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA. We are subject to various OSHA regulations that primarily deal with maintaining a safe work-place environment. OSHA regulations require us, among other things, to maintain documentation of work-related injuries, illnesses and fatalities and files for recordable events, complete workers 17Table of Contentscompensation loss reports and review the status of outstanding worker compensation claims, and complete certain annual filings and postings. We may be involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and investigation with these governmental agencies, including inspections and audits by the applicable agencies related to its compliance with these requirements. To date, compliance by the Company with these and other applicable safety regulations has not had a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, the failure of the Company to comply with these and other applicable requirements in the future could result in fines and penalties and require us to undertake certain remedial actions or be subject to a suspension of business, which, if significant, could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations. Moreover, the involvement by the Company in any audits and investigations or other proceedings could result in substantial financial cost to us and divert our management’s attention. Several recent highly-publicized accidents involving cranes (none of which involved cranes or attachments provided by the company) could result in more stringent enforcement of work-place safety regulations, especially with respect to companies which rent older cranes and attachments. Additionally, future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, new laws or regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to us, may give rise to additional compliance or remedial costs that could be material. Safety requirements may become stricter or be interpreted and applied more strictly in the future. These future changes or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There are a substantial number of shares of our common stock available for resale in the future that may cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We filed a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the resale of 10,695,363 shares by the selling stockholders identified therein, which was declared effective on February 10, 2011. In accordance with applicable registration rights agreements, we are required to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement until all of the shares registered for resale thereby have been sold or are otherwise eligible for trading in the open market. In addition, we have registered 1,575,000 and 1,500,000 shares previously issued or reserved for future issuance under our 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan and 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan, respectively. Accordingly, subject to the satisfaction of applicable vesting or exercise periods, common stock registered under such registration statements will be available for resale in the open market. The presence of these additional shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The conversion of the Retained Interests and our outstanding stock options will result in immediate dilution of our existing stockholders and the book value of their common stock. In connection with our acquisition of Essex Crane, Holdings issued the Retained Interests to members of Essex Crane’s senior management, which were exchangeable for an aggregate of 632,911 shares of our common stock and of which 139,241 Retained Interests were exchanged for a like number of shares of our common stock in December 2012. The remaining outstanding Retained Interests may be exchanged for up to an aggregate of 493,670 shares of our common stock, subject to certain adjustments. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon the exchange of the Retained Interests will result in dilution of our existing shareholders. We have also granted options to purchase an aggregate of 1,213,879 shares of our common stock pursuant to our equity compensation plans, and may grant additional options or common stock pursuant to such plans in the future. Upon the exchange of the Retained Interests or the issuance of common stock pursuant to our equity compensation plans, the equity interest of our stockholders as a percentage of the total number of outstanding shares of common stock, and the net book value of the shares of our common stock will be significantly diluted. We may issue shares of our common stock and preferred stock to raise additional capital, including to complete a future business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 40,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. We currently have 13,812,734 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding employee stock options and the number of shares issuable upon exchange of the outstanding Retained Interests) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we currently have no other commitments to issue any additional shares of our common or preferred stock, we may in the future determine to issue additional shares of our common or preferred stock to raise additional capital for a variety of purposes, including to complete a future acquisition. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock may significantly reduce the equity interest of stockholders and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 18Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.