ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as other information contained in this Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. The risks described below are those that we believe are the material risks we face. Any of these risks could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to the ownership of our common stock We are a “shell company” under the federal securities laws, which will subject us to additional costs and disclosure requirements. Under Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the “Exchange Act”) any company with nominal operations and assets consisting of cash and nominal other assets is a shell company. We are a shell company under the federal securities laws. As a shell company, applicable securities rules prohibit us from using (i) a Form S-8 registration statement to register securities pursuant to employee compensation plans for so long as we are a shell company and for a period of 60 days thereafter and (ii) Form S-3 for the registration of a primary offering of securities for so long as we are a shell company and for 12 months thereafter. The inability to utilize registration statements on Forms S-8 and S-3 would likely increase our cost to register securities in the future. Additionally, the loss of the use of Forms S-3 and S-8 may make the offering and sale of our securities to employees, directors and others under compensatory arrangements more expensive and less attractive to recipients, and our status as a shell company may make investments in our securities less attractive to investors. Form 8-K requires that we provide detailed disclosure upon completion of a transaction that causes us to cease being a shell company. To the extent that we acquire a business in the future, we must file a current report on Form 8-K containing the financial and other information required in a registration statement on Form 10 within four business days following the completion of such transaction. To the extent that we are required to comply with additional disclosure because of our shell company status, we may be delayed in executing a merger or acquiring assets that would cause us to cease being a shell company. The existing market for our common stock is illiquid, and we do not know whether a liquid trading market will develop. Although our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the trading market is relatively illiquid. As of December 31, 2013, there were approximately 5.4 million shares of our common stock, excluding treasury shares, and 0.8 million shares of our Class B common stock issued and outstanding, of which approximately 52.8% were held by certain of our “affiliates”. As a result, there are relatively few shares in publicly traded hands, there are few institutional stockholders other than those controlled by certain of our affiliates and we do not receive a significant amount of analyst coverage. An illiquid market will limit your ability to resell shares of our common stock. Our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “BIOF.” The listing standards of Nasdaq provide, among other things, that Nasdaq has broad discretionary authority over the initial and continued listing of securities in Nasdaq. Under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5101, Nasdaq may use such discretion to suspend or delist particular securities based on any event, condition, or circumstance that exists or occurs that makes continued listing of the securities on Nasdaq inadvisable or unwarranted in the opinion of Nasdaq, even though the securities meet all enumerated criteria for continued listing on Nasdaq. The Nasdaq listing staff has informed us that our suitability for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market is under review pursuant to Nasdaq Listing Rule 5101. If Nasdaq were to determine that listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market is inadvisable or unwarranted due to our status as a shell company under the federal securities laws, our common stock could be delisted and traded on the over-the-counter bulletin board network. Moving our listing to the over-the-counter bulletin board network could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and could significantly negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from Nasdaq could also have other negative results, including the loss of potential investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile and could be subject to future fluctuations in response to a number of factors beyond our control. In recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause declines in the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company or its performance, and those fluctuations could materially reduce our common stock price. 6 Certain large stockholders own a significant percentage of our shares and exert significant influence over us. Their interests may not coincide with yours and they may make decisions with which you may disagree. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the holders of shares of our Class B common stock will be entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. As of December 31, 2013, certain affiliates of Greenlight Capital, Inc., with respect to the Class B common stock and common stock held by them, and certain affiliates of Third Point LLC, with respect to the common stock held by them, respectively, controlled approximately 35.4% and 17.4% of the voting power of BioFuel Energy Corp. These large stockholders, acting together, could determine substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other stockholders. Accordingly, these stockholders could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that you would not approve or make decisions with which you may disagree. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have not paid any dividends since our inception and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our available cash for general corporate purposes. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that the Board of Directors deems relevant. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Risks relating to our organizational structure Our only material asset is our interest in BioFuel Energy, LLC, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from BioFuel Energy, LLC to pay dividends, taxes and other expenses. BioFuel Energy Corp. is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of membership units in the LLC. BioFuel Energy Corp. has no independent means of generating revenue. To the extent that BioFuel Energy Corp. needs funds, and the LLC is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulations, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially harmed. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be limited as a result of prior or future acquisitions of our common stock. As of December 31, 2013 we reported federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $178.2 million, which will begin to expire if not used by December 31, 2028. For accounting purposes, a valuation allowance is required to reduce our potential deferred tax assets if it is determined that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of such assets will not be realized for any reason. Our financial statements currently provide a valuation allowance against our NOL carryforwards. 7 Our ability to utilize our tax attributes, such as NOL carryforwards and tax credits (“Tax Attributes”), during future periods will depend in part on whether we have undergone an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). For this purpose, an ownership change generally occurs if, as of any “testing date” (as defined under Section 382 of the Code), our “5-percent shareholders” have collectively increased their ownership in our common stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the relevant testing period, which generally begins three years before each “testing date” transaction. In general, our 5-percent shareholders would include (i) any individual who owns 5% or more of our common stock and (ii) any “public group” that owns our common stock, in each case whether such shareholders own our common stock directly or indirectly through one or more higher tier entities that directly or indirectly own 5% or more of our common stock. A “public group” generally consists of any group of individuals each of whom directly or indirectly owns less than 5% of our common stock. An ownership change may therefore occur following substantial changes in the direct or indirect ownership of our outstanding stock by one or more 5-percent shareholders over this period. After an ownership change, Section 382 of the Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of our post-change taxable income that may be offset by our pre-change Tax Attributes. The limitation imposed by Section 382 for any post-change year is generally determined by multiplying the value of our common stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. Any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years. In addition, the limitation may be increased under certain circumstances by any “built-in gain” in our assets at the time of the ownership change. It is unclear whether all or a portion of our Tax Attributes are or will be subject to a limitation under Section 382 of the Code as a result of prior or future acquisitions of our common stock by 5-percent shareholders. If our Tax Attributes are not currently subject to limitation under Section 382 of the Code, our Board of Directors may take actions to impose transfer restrictions or other protective mechanisms, including the adoption of a “tax benefit preservation plan,” to reduce the likelihood of a future ownership change. Any such plan, if adopted, would be adopted on terms and conditions approved by our Board of Directors. Our ability to use our Tax Attributes will also depend on the amount of taxable income we generate in future periods. Even without regard to Section 382 of the Code, therefore, all or a portion of our Tax Attributes may expire before we generate sufficient taxable income to utilize them. Provisions in our charter documents and our organizational structure may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party or may reduce the value of your investment. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder may deem to be in his or her best interest. For example, our Board of Directors may determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. In addition, stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate Directors or to propose business to be considered at a meeting of stockholders and may not take action by written consent. Our corporate structure, which provides our historical LLC equity investors, through the shares of Class B common stock they will hold, a number of votes equal to the number of shares of common stock issuable upon exchange of their membership units in the LLC, may also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a future takeover or change in control of our company. The existence of these provisions and this structure could also limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 8 