Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We operate in the highly competitive mechanical power transmission industry and if we are not able to compete successfully our business may be significantly harmed. We operate in highly fragmented and very competitive markets in the MPT industry. Some of our competitors have achieved substantially more market penetration in certain of the markets in which we operate, such as helical gear drives, and some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial and other resources. With respect to certain of our products, we compete with divisions of our OEM customers. Competition in our business lines is based on a number of considerations, including quality, reliability, pricing, availability, and design and application engineering support. Our customers increasingly demand a broad product range and we must continue to develop our expertise in order to manufacture and market these products successfully. To remain competitive, regular investment in manufacturing, customer service and support, marketing, sales, research and development and intellectual property protection is required. In the future we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments and may not be able to maintain our competitive position within each of the markets we serve. We may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. Additionally, some of our larger, more sophisticated customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to increase their efficiency. If we are not selected to become one of these preferred providers, we may lose market share in some of the markets in which we compete. There is substantial and continuing pressure on major OEMs and larger distributors to reduce costs, including the cost of products purchased from outside suppliers. As a result of cost pressures from our customers, our ability to compete depends in part on our ability to generate production cost savings and, in turn, to find reliable, cost effective outside suppliers to source components or manufacture our products. If we are unable to generate sufficient cost savings in the future to offset price reductions, then our gross margin could be materially adversely affected. Changes in or the cyclical nature of our markets could harm our operations and financial performance. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the markets that we serve and on the U.S. and global economies in general. Some of the markets we serve are highly cyclical, such as the metals, mining, industrial equipment and energy markets. In such an environment, expected cyclical activity or sales may not occur or may be delayed and may result in significant quarter-to-quarter variability in our performance. Any sustained weakness in demand, downturn or uncertainty in cyclical markets may reduce our sales and profitability. We rely on independent distributors and the loss of these distributors could adversely affect our business. In addition to our direct sales force and manufacturer sales representatives, we depend on the services of independent distributors to sell our products and provide service and aftermarket support to our customers. We support an extensive distribution network, with over 3,000 distributor locations worldwide. Rather than serving as passive conduits for delivery of product, our independent distributors are active participants in the overall competitive dynamics in the MPT industry. During the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 33% of our net sales from continuing operations were generated through independent distributors. In particular, sales through our largest distributor accounted for approximately 8% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012. Almost all of the distributors with whom we transact business offer competitive products and services to our customers. In addition, the distribution agreements we have are typically non-exclusive and cancelable by the distributor after a short notice period. The loss of any major distributor or a substantial number of smaller distributors or an increase in the distributors’ sales of our competitors’ products to our customers could materially reduce our sales and profits. 14 We must continue to invest in new technologies and manufacturing techniques; however, our ability to develop or adapt to changing technology and manufacturing techniques is uncertain and our failure to do so could place us at a competitive disadvantage. The successful implementation of our business strategy requires us to continuously invest in new technologies and manufacturing techniques to evolve our existing products and introduce new products to meet our customers’ needs in the industries we serve and want to serve. For example, motion control products offer more precise positioning and control compared to industrial clutches and brakes. If manufacturing processes are developed to make motion control products more price competitive and less complicated to operate, our customers may decrease their purchases of MPT products. Our products are characterized by performance and specification requirements that mandate a high degree of manufacturing and engineering expertise. We believe that our customers rigorously evaluate their suppliers on the basis of a number of factors, including: • product quality and availability; • price competitiveness; • technical expertise and development capability; • reliability and timeliness of delivery; • product design capability; • manufacturing expertise; and • sales support and customer service. Our success depends on our ability to invest in new technologies and manufacturing techniques to continue to meet our customers’ changing demands with respect to the above factors. We may not be able to make required capital expenditures and, even if we do so, we may be unsuccessful in addressing technological advances or introducing new products necessary to remain competitive within our markets. Furthermore, our own technological developments may not be able to produce a sustainable competitive advantage. If we fail to invest successfully in improvements to our technology and manufacturing techniques, our business may be materially adversely affected. Our operations are subject to international risks that could affect our operating results. Our net sales outside North America represented approximately 42% of our total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012. In addition, we sell products to domestic customers for use in their products sold overseas. We also source a significant portion of our products and materials from overseas, a practice which is increasing. Our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, and our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • exchange rate controls; • tariffs or other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • interest rates; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • changes in foreign intellectual property law; • differing labor regulations; • requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; 15 • restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in various jurisdictions; • potential political instability and the actions of foreign governments; and • restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. Our operations depend on production facilities throughout the world, many of which are located outside the United States and are subject to increased risks of disrupted production causing delays in shipments and loss of customers and revenue. We operate businesses with manufacturing facilities worldwide, many of which are located outside the United States including in Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Mexico, Russia, Slovakia, and the United Kingdom. Serving a global customer base requires that we place more production in emerging markets to capitalize on market opportunities and cost efficiencies. Our international production facilities and operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns, particularly in emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such occurrences. Any production disruptions could materially adversely affect our business. We rely on estimated forecasts of our OEM customers’ needs, and inaccuracies in such forecasts could materially adversely affect our business. We generally sell our products pursuant to individual purchase orders instead of under long-term purchase commitments. Therefore, we rely on estimated demand forecasts, based upon input from our customers, to determine how much material to purchase and product to manufacture. Because our sales are based on purchase orders, our customers may cancel, delay or otherwise modify their purchase commitments with little or no consequence to them and with little or no notice to us. For these reasons, we generally have limited visibility regarding our customers’ actual product needs. The quantities or timing required by our customers for our products could vary significantly. Whether in response to changes affecting the industry or a customer’s specific business pressures, any cancellation, delay or other modification in our customers’ orders could significantly reduce our revenue, impact our working capital, cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult for us to predict our revenue. In the event of a cancellation or reduction of an order, we may not have enough time to reduce operating expenses to minimize the effect of the lost revenue on our business and we may purchase too much inventory and spend more capital than expected, which may materially adversely affect our business. From time to time, our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses. In addition, during periods of economic difficulty, our customers may not be able to accurately estimate demand forecasts and may scale back orders in an abundance of caution. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. Such cancellations, reductions or inability to fulfill obligations could significantly reduce our revenue, impact our working capital, cause our operating results to fluctuate adversely from period to period and make it more difficult for us to predict our revenue. Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability, including manufacturing or distribution capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, excessive demand, raw 16 material shortages, or other reasons, could impair our ability, and that of our suppliers, to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. The materials used to produce our products are subject to price fluctuations that could increase costs of production and adversely affect our profitability. The materials used to produce our products, especially copper and steel, are sourced on a global or regional basis and the prices of those materials are susceptible to price fluctuations due to supply and demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate and other unforeseen circumstances. From the first quarter of 2004 to the fourth quarter of 2012, the average price of copper and steel has increased approximately 168% and 78%, respectively. If we are unable to continue to pass a substantial portion of such price increases on to our customers on a timely basis, our future profitability may be materially adversely affected. In addition, passing through these costs to our customers may also limit our ability to increase our prices in the future. We face potential product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or distribute, which could result in our having to expend significant time and expense to defend these claims and to pay material damages or settlement amounts. We face a business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or other adverse effects. We currently have several product liability claims against us with respect to our products. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or obtain insurance that will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful product liability defense could exceed any insurance that we maintain and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or our ability to make payments under our debt obligations when due. In addition, we believe our business depends on the strong brand reputation we have developed. In the event that our reputation is damaged, we may face difficulty in maintaining our pricing positions with respect to some of our products, which would reduce our sales and profitability. We also risk exposure to product liability claims in connection with products sold by businesses that we acquire. Although in some cases third parties have retained responsibility for product liabilities relating to products manufactured or sold prior to our acquisition of the relevant business and in other cases the persons from whom we have acquired a business may be required to indemnify us for certain product liability claims subject to certain caps or limitations on indemnification, we cannot assure you that those third parties will in fact satisfy their obligations to us with respect to liabilities retained by them or their indemnification obligations. If those third parties become unable to or otherwise do not comply with their respective obligations including indemnity obligations, or if certain product liability claims for which we are obligated were not retained by third parties or are not subject to these indemnities, we could become subject to significant liabilities or other adverse consequences. Moreover, even in cases where third parties retain responsibility for product liabilities or are required to indemnify us, significant claims arising from products that we have acquired could have a material adverse effect on our ability to realize the benefits from an acquisition, could result in our reducing the value of goodwill that we have recorded in connection with an acquisition, or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operations. We may be subject to work stoppages at our facilities, or our customers may be subjected to work stoppages, which could seriously impact our operations and the profitability of our business. As of December 31, 2012, we had 3,617 full-time employees, of whom approximately 55% were located in North America (primarily U.S.), 31% in Europe, and 14% in Asia and the rest of the world. Approximately 17% of our full-time factory U.S. employees are represented by labor unions. In addition, approximately 664 employees or 59% of our European employees are represented by labor unions or works 17 councils. Approximately 70 employees in the Kilian production facilities in Toronto, Canada are unionized under a collective bargaining agreement. Approximately 30 employees in the Lamiflex production facilities in Brazil are represented by a works council. Additionally, approximately 58 employees in the TB Wood’s production facilities in Mexico are unionized under collective bargaining agreements that are subject to annual renewals. We are a party to four U.S. collective bargaining agreements. The agreements will expire in July 2013, October 2013, June 2014, and, October 2014, respectively. With respect to the collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire in July 2013, we have entered into a plant closing agreement with labor union employees at our South Beloit Manufacturing facility. The facility is substantially closed with the exception of one remaining product line. We are also party to a collective bargaining agreement with union employees at our Toronto, Canada manufacturing facility. That agreement will expire in July 2015. One of the four U.S. collective bargaining agreements contains provisions for additional, potentially significant, lump-sum severance payments to all employees covered by that agreement who are terminated as the result of a plant closing and one of our collective bargaining agreements contains provisions restricting our ability to terminate or relocate operations. Our facilities in Europe and Brazil have employees who are generally represented by local or national social works councils. Social works councils meet with employer industry associations periodically to discuss employee wages and working conditions. Our facilities in France, Germany, and Slovakia often participate in such discussions and adhere to any agreements reached. If our unionized workers or those represented by a works council were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown in the future, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations. Such disruption could interfere with our ability to deliver products on a timely basis and could have other negative effects, including decreased productivity and increased labor costs. In addition, if a greater percentage of our work force becomes unionized, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Many of our direct and indirect customers have unionized work forces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by these customers or their suppliers could result in slowdowns or closures of assembly plants where our products are used and could cause cancellation of purchase orders with us or otherwise result in reduced revenues from these customers. Changes in employment laws could increase our costs and may adversely affect our business. Various federal, state and international labor laws govern our relationship with employees and affect operating costs. These laws include minimum wage requirements, overtime, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates paid, leaves of absence, mandated health and other benefits, and citizenship requirements. Significant additional government-imposed increases or new requirements in these areas could materially affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. In the event our employee-related costs rise significantly, we may have to curtail the number of our employees or shut down certain manufacturing facilities. Any such actions would not only be costly but could also materially adversely affect our business. We depend on the services of key executives, the loss of whom could materially harm our business. Our senior executives are important to our success because they are instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, maintaining and expanding relationships with distributors, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, identifying expansion opportunities and arranging necessary financing. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement could be found. We believe that our senior executives could not easily be replaced with executives of equal experience and capabilities. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our key domestic executives, we cannot prevent our key executives from terminating their employment with us. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executives. 18 If we lose certain of our key sales, marketing or engineering personnel, our business may be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing and engineering personnel. Competition for these persons in our industry is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. If we fail to retain and recruit the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. If certain of these key personnel were to terminate their employment with us, we may experience difficulty replacing them, and our business could be harmed. We are subject to environmental laws that could impose significant costs on us and the failure to comply with such laws could subject us to sanctions and material fines and expenses. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local, foreign and provincial environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the responsibility to investigate and cleanup contaminated sites that are or were owned, leased, operated or used by us or our predecessors. Some of these laws and regulations require us to obtain permits, which contain terms and conditions that impose limitations on our ability to emit and discharge hazardous materials into the environment and periodically may be subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. Fines and penalties may be imposed for non-compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and the failure to have or to comply with the terms and conditions of required permits. From time to time, our operations may not be in full compliance with the terms and conditions of our permits. We periodically review our procedures and policies for compliance with environmental laws and requirements. We believe that our operations generally are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, requirements and permits and that any lapses in compliance would not be expected to result in us incurring material liability or cost to achieve compliance. Historically, the costs of achieving and maintaining compliance with environmental laws, and requirements and permits have not been material; however, the operation of manufacturing plants entails risks in these areas, and a failure by us to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, or permits could result in civil or criminal fines, penalties, enforcement actions, third party claims for property damage and personal injury, requirements to clean up property or to pay for the costs of cleanup, or regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, including the installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions. Moreover, if applicable environmental laws and regulations, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, become more stringent in the future, we could incur capital or operating costs beyond those currently anticipated. Certain environmental laws in the United States, such as the federal Superfund law and similar state laws, impose liability for the cost of investigation or remediation of contaminated sites upon the current or, in some cases, the former site owners or operators and upon parties who arranged for the disposal of wastes or transported or sent those wastes to an off-site facility for treatment or disposal, regardless of when the release of hazardous substances occurred or the lawfulness of the activities giving rise to the release. Such liability can be imposed without regard to fault and, under certain circumstances, can be joint and several, resulting in one party being held responsible for the entire obligation. As a practical matter, however, the costs of investigation and remediation generally are allocated among the viable responsible parties on some form of equitable basis. Liability also may include damages to natural resources. We have not been notified that we are a potentially responsible party in connection with any sites we currently or formerly owned or operated. From time to time, we are notified that we are a potentially responsible party and may have liability in connection with off-site disposal facilities. To date, we have generally resolved matters involving off-site disposal facilities for a nominal sum although there can be no assurance that we will be able to resolve pending and future matters in a similar fashion. However, there is contamination at some of our current facilities, primarily related to historical operations at those sites, for which we could be liable for the investigation and remediation under certain environmental laws. The potential for contamination also exists at other of our current or former sites, based on historical uses of those sites. We currently are not undertaking any remediation or investigations and our costs or liability in connection with potential contamination conditions at our facilities cannot be predicted at this time because the potential existence of contamination has not been investigated or not enough is known about the 19 environmental conditions or likely remedial requirements. Currently, other parties with contractual liability are addressing or have plans or obligations to address those contamination conditions that may pose a material risk to human health, safety or the environment. In addition, while we attempt to evaluate the risk of liability associated with our facilities at the time we acquire them, there may be environmental conditions currently unknown to us relating to our prior, existing or future sites or operations or those of predecessor companies whose liabilities we may have assumed or acquired which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are being indemnified, or expect to be indemnified by third parties subject to certain caps or limitations on the indemnification, for certain environmental costs and liabilities associated with certain owned or operated sites. Accordingly, based on the indemnification and the experience with similar sites of the environmental consultants who we have hired, we do not expect such costs and liabilities to have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or earnings. We cannot assure you, however, that those third parties will in fact satisfy their indemnification obligations. If those third parties become unable to, or otherwise do not, comply with their respective indemnity obligations, or if certain contamination or other liability for which we are obligated is not subject to these indemnities, we could become subject to significant liabilities. We may face additional costs associated with our post-retirement and post-employment obligations to employees which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. As part of the acquisition of our original core business through the acquisition of PTH from Colfax Corporation, the PTH Acquisition, we agreed to assume pension plan liabilities for active U.S. employees under the Retirement Plan for Power Transmission Employees of Colfax and the Ameridrives International Pension Fund for Hourly Employees Represented by United Steelworkers of America, Local 3199-10, collectively referred to as the Prior Plans. We have established a defined benefit plan, the Altra Industrial Motion, Inc. Retirement Plan or New Plan, mirroring the benefits provided under the Prior Plans. The New Plan accepted a spin-off of assets and liabilities from the Prior Plans, in accordance with Section 414(l) of the Internal Revenue Code, or the Code, with such assets and liabilities relating to active U.S. employees as of the closing of the PTH Acquisition. Given the funded status of the Prior Plans and the asset allocation requirements of Code Section 414(l), liabilities under the New Plan greatly exceed the assets that were transferred from the Prior Plans. The accumulated benefit obligation (not including accumulated benefit obligations of non-U.S. pension plans in the amount of $7.5 million) was approximately $27.1 million as of December 31, 2012 while the fair value of plan assets associated with these U.S. plans was approximately $19.8 million as of December 31, 2012. As the New Plan has a considerable funding deficit, the cash funding requirements are expected to be substantial over the next several years, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. As of December 31, 2012, minimum funding requirements are estimated to be $1.0 million annually for each year from 2013 through 2017. These amounts are based on actuarial assumptions and actual amounts could be materially different. Additionally, as part of the PTH Acquisition and Bauer Acquisition, we agreed to assume certain pension plan liabilities related to non-U.S. employees. The accumulated benefit obligations of non-U.S. pension plans were approximately $7.5 million as of December 31, 2012. There are no assets associated with these plans. Finally, as part of the PTH Acquisition, we also agreed to assume all post-employment and post-retirement welfare benefit obligations with respect to active U.S. employees. The benefit obligation for post-retirement benefits, which are not funded, was approximately $0.2 million as of December 31, 2012. For a description of the post-retirement and post-employment costs, see Note 8 to our audited financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our future success depends on our ability to integrate acquired companies and manage our growth effectively. Our growth through acquisitions has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. Realization of the benefits of acquisitions often requires integration of some or all of the acquired companies’ sales and marketing, distribution, manufacturing, engineering, finance and administrative organizations. Integration of companies demands substantial attention from senior management and the management of the acquired companies. In addition, we will continue to pursue 20 new acquisitions, some of which could be material to our business if completed. We may not be able to integrate successfully our recent acquisitions, or any future acquisitions, operate these acquired companies profitably, or realize the potential benefits from these acquisitions. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of acquisitions, including the Bauer Acquisition, if, among other things, we are unable to achieve the expected growth in earnings, or if the operational cost savings estimates in connection with the integration of the acquired businesses are not realized, or if the transaction costs related to the acquisitions are greater than expected. The market price of our common stock also may decline if we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the acquisitions as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts or if the effect of the acquisitions on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, brands or technology effectively, which could allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our technology and could adversely affect our ability to compete. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as on license, non-disclosure, employee and consultant assignment and other agreements and domain names registrations in order to protect our proprietary technology and rights. Applications for protection of our intellectual property rights may not be allowed, and the rights, if granted, may not be maintained. In addition, third parties may infringe or challenge our intellectual property rights. In some cases, we rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. In addition, in the ordinary course of our operations, we pursue potential claims from time to time relating to the protection of certain products and intellectual property rights, including with respect to some of our more profitable products. Such claims could be time consuming, expensive and divert resources. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies or proprietary protection of our brands, our ability to market or be competitive with respect to some or all of our products may be affected, which could reduce our sales and profitability. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles comprises a significant portion of our total assets, and if we determine that goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles become impaired in the future, net income in such years may be materially and adversely affected. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. Due to the acquisitions we have completed historically, goodwill comprises a significant portion of our total assets. We review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles annually for impairment and any excess in carrying value over the estimated fair value is charged to the results of operations. Our review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles in December 2012 resulted in no reduction to the value of such assets in our financial statements. Future reviews of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles could result in reductions. Any reduction in net income resulting from the write down or impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles could adversely affect our financial results. If economic conditions deteriorate we may be required to impair goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles in future periods. Unplanned repairs or equipment outages could interrupt production and reduce income or cash flow. Unplanned repairs or equipment outages, including those due to natural disasters, could result in the disruption of our manufacturing processes. Any interruption in our manufacturing processes would interrupt our production of products, reduce our income and cash flow and could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our operations are highly dependent on information technology infrastructure and failures could significantly affect our business. We depend heavily on our information technology, or IT, infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. If we experience a problem that impairs this infrastructure, such as a computer virus, a problem with the functioning of an important IT application, or an intentional disruption of our IT systems by a third party, the resulting 21 disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns. Computer viruses, malware, and other “hacking” programs and devices may cause significant damage, delays or interruptions to our systems and operations or to certain of the products that we sell resulting in damage to our reputation and brand names. Computer viruses, malware, and other “hacking” programs and devices may attack our infrastructure, industrial machinery, software or hardware causing significant damage, delays or other service interruptions to our systems and operations. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions, loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. In addition, increasingly sophisticated malware may target real-world infrastructure or product components, including certain of the products that we currently or may in the future sell by attacking, disrupting, reconfiguring and/or reprogramming industrial control software. Hacking, computer viruses, and other malware could result in significant damage to our infrastructure, industrial machinery, systems, or databases. We may incur significant costs to protect our systems and equipment against the threat of, and to repair any damage caused by, computer viruses and hacking. Moreover, if a computer virus or hacking affects our systems or products, our reputation and brand names could be materially damaged and use of our products may decrease. If we are unable to successfully implement our new ERP system across the Company or such implementation is delayed, our operations may be disrupted or become less efficient. We have begun the worldwide implementation of a new Enterprise Resource Planning system entitled “SAP,” with the aim of enabling management to achieve better control over the Company through: improved quality, reliability and timeliness of information; improved integration and visibility of information stemming from different management functions and countries; and optimization and global management of corporate processes. The adoption of the new SAP system, which will replace the existing accounting and management systems, poses several challenges relating to, among other things, training of personnel, communication of new rules and procedures, changes in corporate culture, migration of data, and the potential instability of the new system. In order to mitigate the impact of such critical issues, the Company decided to implement the new SAP system on a step-by-step basis, both geographically and in terms of processes. As a result, we expect the system implementation process to continue for approximately the next 18 months. However, there can be no assurance that the new SAP system will be successfully implemented and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Further, if implementation of the SAP system is delayed, we would continue to use our current system which may not be sufficient to support our planned operations and significant upgrades to the current system may be warranted or required to meet our business needs pending SAP implementation. However, there can be no assurance that the new SAP system will be successfully implemented and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. Our leverage could adversely affect our financial health and make us vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions. We have incurred indebtedness that is substantial relative to our stockholders’ investment. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $266.9 million of gross indebtedness outstanding and $113.1 million available under our Revolving Credit Facility (as defined herein). Under the Credit Agreement, we have a $100,000,000 Term Loan Facility and a $200,000,000 Revolving Credit Facility. Our indebtedness has important consequences; for example, it could: • make it more challenging for us to obtain additional financing to fund our business strategy and acquisitions, debt service requirements, capital expenditures and working capital; • increase our vulnerability to interest rate changes and general adverse economic and industry conditions; 22 • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to finance acquisitions and to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate activities; • make it difficult for us to fulfill our obligations under our credit and other debt agreements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our markets; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have less debt. Substantially all of the domestic personal property of Altra Holdings and its domestic subsidiaries and certain shares of certain non-domestic subsidiaries have been pledged as collateral against any outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) governing our Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan Credit Facility. In addition, the Credit Agreement requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, which may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. In the future, the then current economic and credit market conditions may limit our access to additional capital, to the extent that the Credit Agreement would otherwise permit additional financing, or may preclude our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness. There can be no assurance that there will not be a deterioration in the credit markets, a deterioration in the financial condition of our lenders or their ability to fund their commitments or, if necessary, that we will be able to find replacement financing, if need be, on similar or acceptable terms. An inability to access sufficient financing or capital could have an adverse impact on our operations and thus on our operating results and financial position. Our Credit Agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from pursuing our business strategies or favorable business opportunities. Subject to a number of important exceptions, the Credit Agreement may limit our ability to: • incur more debt; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • redeem stock; • issue stock of subsidiaries; • make certain investments; • create liens; • reorganize our corporate structure; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate; and • transfer or sell assets. The restrictions contained in the Credit Agreement may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. A breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under the Credit Agreement. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the Credit Agreement may elect to declare all of the outstanding debt, under the Credit Agreement together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under the Credit Agreement also have the right in those circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. In addition, following an event of default under the Credit Agreement, the lenders under the Credit Agreement will have the right to proceed against the collateral described above that secures the debt. If the debt under the Credit 23 Agreement were to be accelerated, we may not have the ability to refinance that debt, and if we can, the terms of such refinancing may be less favorable than the current financing terms under the Credit Agreement. In the event that the indebtedness is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full all of our debt. We are subject to tax laws and regulations in many jurisdictions and the inability to successfully defend claims from taxing authorities related to our current or acquired businesses could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. Due to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims from taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. Continued extreme volatility and disruption in global financial markets could significantly impact our customers, suppliers, weaken the markets we serve and harm our operations and financial performance. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the markets that we serve and on the U.S. and global economies in general. As widely reported, U.S. and global financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent years, including, among other things, concerns regarding the stability and viability of major financial institutions, the weak state of the housing markets, a severe tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets. Further, economic conditions in the European Union have deteriorated and with the Bauer Acquisition our exposure to European markets has increased. Given the significance and widespread nature of these nearly unprecedented circumstances, the U.S., European, and global economies could remain significantly challenged in a recessionary state for an indeterminate period of time. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. In addition, the tight credit market may adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services as well as impact the ability of our customers to make payments. Similarly, this tight credit market may adversely affect our supplier base and increase the potential for one or more of our suppliers to experience financial distress or bankruptcy. These conditions would harm our business by adversely affecting our sales, results of operations, profitability, cash flows, financial condition and long-term anticipated growth rate, which could result in potential impairment of certain long-term assets including goodwill. We may not realize the expected benefits of the Bauer Acquisition and the Lamiflex Acquisition because of integration difficulties and other challenges. The success of the Bauer Acquisition and the Lamiflex Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from integrating the Bauer and the Lamiflex businesses with our existing businesses. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The difficulties of integrating the operations of the Bauer and Lamiflex businesses include, among others: • failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; • unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and compensation structures; • unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; • failure to retain key employees; • failure to retain key customers; 24 • operating risks inherent in the Bauer business, the Lamiflex business and our business; • the impact on our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. We may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of Altra and Bauer had achieved or might achieve separately. In addition, we may not accomplish the integration of Bauer’s business smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. We face risks associated with the Purchase Agreement in connection with the Bauer Acquisition. In connection with the Bauer Acquisition, we are subject to substantially all the liabilities of Bauer related to the gear motor business we acquired that were not satisfied on or prior to the closing date. There may be liabilities that we underestimated or did not discover in the course of performing our due diligence investigation of Bauer. Under the Purchase Agreement, the seller agreed to provide us with a limited set of representations and warranties, including with respect to outstanding and potential liabilities. However, our remedy from the seller for any breach of certain of those representations and warranties is an action for indemnification, not to exceed €14.1 million. This cap on damages does not apply to breaches of representations and warranties relating to incorporation, power and authority, insolvency, title to assets, taxes, environmental matters and certain pension claims. Damages resulting from a breach of a representation or warranty could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and there is no guarantee that we would actually be able to recover all or any portion of the sums payable to us in connection with such breach. We may not realize the expected growth and production savings from Construction of our new China facility. We have recently completed the construction of a plant in Changzhou, China. There are numerous risks and uncertainties that may prevent us from achieving the revenues we currently anticipate from this facility. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: offer new and innovative products to attract and retain a larger customer base; attract additional customers; undertake more contracted projects; maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; respond to evolving social, economic and political changes in China; respond to competitive market conditions; manage risks associated with intellectual property rights; and attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties and such growth or production savings do not materialize, or should the timeline for full production at the facility be delayed, we may be unable to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 25 