Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We are an early-stage company and have limited relevant operating history and a history of losses. We emerged from our reorganization in April 2005 with a new business plan and have made several recent acquisitions and investments. As a result, we are at an early stage of our development and have had a limited relevant operating history and, consequently, limited historical financial information. Other than through our PacketVideo business, which we acquired in July 2005, we have never generated any material revenues and have limited commercial operations. We are currently unable to project when our wireless broadband products and technologies will be commercially deployed and generate revenue. In addition, we, along with the companies we have acquired, have a history of losses. Other than our PacketVideo business, we will not have the benefit of any meaningful operations, and we will incur significant expenses in advance of generating significant revenues, particularly from our WiMAX/Wi-Fi semiconductor and network component products, and are expected to realize significant operating losses for the next few years. We are therefore subject to all risks typically associated with a start-up entity. We are in the early stages of the implementation of our business plan. If we are not able to successfully implement all key aspects of our business plan, including selling and/or licensing, high volumes of our WiMAX/Wi-Fi semiconductor and network component products to network operators and to device and network equipment manufacturers, we may not be able to develop a customer base sufficient to generate adequate revenues. If we are unable to successfully implement our business plan and grow our business, either as a result of the risks identified in this section or for any other reason, we may never achieve profitability, in which event our business would fail. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and the identification of any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future could affect our ability to ensure timely and reliable financial reports. In connection with our close process and the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 30, 2006, our management concluded that a material weakness existed relating to revenue recognition pursuant to software contracts of PacketVideo. The Company's failure to properly apply software revenue recognition principles resulted from a lack of a sufficient number of employees with appropriate levels of knowledge, expertise and training in the application of generally accepted accounting principles relevant to software revenue recognition. As a public company, our systems of internal controls over financial reporting are required to comply with the standards adopted by the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “PCAOB”). Both regulators currently define a material weakness as a single deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. We believe we have taken measures to remedy the material weakness, some of which is still in progress. For a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and a description of the identified material weakness and the related remedial measures, see Item 9A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We will be required to make our first annual certification on our internal controls over financial reporting in our Annual Report for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007. In preparing for such certification, we are presently evaluating our internal controls for compliance with applicable SEC and PCAOB requirements. We have identified that a material weakness exists related to revenue recognition in our PacketVideo subsidiary. We also may identify additional areas requiring improvement and may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. This could result in significant delays and cost to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. We have commenced a review of our existing internal control structure and plan to hire additional personnel. Although our review is not complete, we have taken steps to improve our internal control structure by hiring dedicated, internal compliance personnel to analyze and improve our internal controls, to be supplemented periodically with outside consultants as needed. However, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year 2007. Moreover, although our management will continue to review and evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls, we can give you no assurance that there will be no material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We may in the future have material weaknesses or other control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting as a result of our controls becoming inadequate due to changes in conditions, the degree of compliance with our internal control policies and procedures deteriorating, or for other reasons. If we have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses or other control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC will be adversely affected. This failure could materially and adversely impact our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. 36 If we fail to effectively manage growth in our business, our ability to develop and commercialize our products will be adversely affected. Our business and operations have expanded rapidly since the completion of our reorganization in April 2005. For example, from April 13, 2005 through March 21, 2007, the number of our employees has increased from 50 to 662 as a result of organic growth and acquisitions. We acquired GO Networks in February 2007, CYGNUS Communications in February 2006 and PacketVideo in July 2005 and we are still in the process of integrating these businesses. To support our expanded research and development activities for our mobile broadband business and the growth in our PacketVideo business, we must continue to successfully hire, train, motivate and retain our employees. We expect that significant further expansion of our operations and employee base will be necessary. In addition, in order to manage our expanded operations, we will need to continue to expand our management, operational and financial controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We will also need to retain management, key employees and business partners of PacketVideo, GO and CYGNUS. All of these measures will require significant expenditures and will demand the attention of management. Failure to fulfill any of the foregoing requirements could result in our failure to successfully manage our intended growth and development, and successfully integrate PacketVideo, GO and CYGNUS, which would adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our products and achieve profitability. We operate in an extremely competitive environment which could materially adversely affect our ability to win market acceptance of our products and achieve profitability. We operate in an extremely competitive market and we expect such competition to increase in the future. Set forth below is a brief description of the competitive environment for each of our divisions and PacketVideo: NextWave Broadband - As providers of mobile broadband products and technologies based on WiMAX and Wi-Fi standards, we will be competing with well established, international companies that are engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of products and technologies that support alternative wireless standards such as GSM, CDMA2000 and UMTS. Companies that support these alternative wireless technologies include well-established industry leaders such as Alcatel, Ericsson, Huawei, LGE, Lucent, Motorola, Nokia, Nortel, QUALCOMM, Samsung and Siemens. In addition, we will be competing with numerous companies that are currently developing or marketing WiMAX products and technologies including Beceem, Fujitsu, Intel, Motorola, Nortel, RunCom, Samsung, Sequans and WaveSat. Some of these companies have significantly greater financial, technical development, and marketing resources than we do, are already marketing commercial WiMAX semiconductor products, and have established a significant time to market advantage. These companies are also our potential customers and partners and may not be available to us if they develop competing products. In addition, we expect additional competition to emerge in the WiMAX semiconductor and components market including well-established companies such as Samsung and Broadcom. 37 PacketVideo - At present, the primary competitors for PacketVideo’s multimedia software products are the internal multimedia design teams at the OEM handset manufacturers to whom PacketVideo markets its products and services. Importantly, these OEMs represent some of PacketVideo’s largest customers. In addition several companies, including Flextronics/Emuzed, Hantro, Nextreaming, Philips Software, Sasken and Thin Multimedia also currently provide software products and services that directly or indirectly compete with PacketVideo. As the market for embedded multimedia software evolves, we anticipate that additional competitors may emerge including Apple Computer, Real Networks and OpenWave. GO Networks - GO Networks competition ranges from small and medium size companies such as Tropos Networks, Strix Systems, and Belair Networks to large-scale systems suppliers such as Cisco, Motorola, and Nortel. Many of GO Networks’ competitors have an established time-to-market advantage and have sales, marketing, manufacturing, and distribution capabilities that significantly exceed those of GO Networks. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technological development, marketing and other resources than we do, are already marketing commercial products and technologies and have established a significant time to market advantage. Our ability to generate earnings will depend, in part, upon our ability to effectively compete with these competitors. We intend to expand our business through additional acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses, which could disrupt our business and increase our expenses. Part of our strategy is to pursue acquisitions of and investments in businesses and technologies to expand our business and enhance our technology development capabilities. In addition to our CYGNUS, GO Networks and PacketVideo acquisitions, we have made investments in a number of companies including Hughes Systique and Inquam Broadband, and anticipate future investments in other companies. The negotiation of potential acquisitions and investments, as well as the integration of acquired businesses or technologies, could divert our management’s time and resources. Acquired businesses and technologies may not be successfully integrated with our products and operations. In addition, our investments, particularly minority investments, may not give us access to new technologies or provide us with business relationships with the other company. We may not realize the intended benefit of any acquisition or investment. Our acquisitions could result in substantial cash expenditures, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, a decrease in our profit margins and amortization of intangibles and potential impairment of goodwill. In addition, our investments could result in substantial cash expenditures, fluctuations in our results of operations resulting from changes in the value of the investments and diversion of management’s time and attention. If acquisitions disrupt our operations or if our investments are not successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. If WiMAX technology fails to gain acceptance, we will not be successful in selling WiMAX products and technologies. Our business plan is reliant on the deployment and market acceptance of mobile WiMAX networks and WiMAX enabled handsets and devices. WiMAX and the market for WiMAX networks and services have only recently begun to develop and is continuing to evolve. We plan to generate most of our revenue from the sale of WiMAX products and the licensing of mobile WiMAX broadband technologies. There are currently no mobile WiMAX networks in commercial operation and there can be no assurance that commercial mobile WiMAX networks will prove to be commercially viable. Mobile WiMAX will compete with several third generation (3G) and fourth generation (4G) wireless air interface technologies that are currently being deployed or developed to enable the delivery of mobile broadband services to the market, including CDMA2000 and UMTS. In order for WiMAX to gain significant market acceptance among consumers, network operators and telecommunications service providers will need to deploy WiMAX networks. However, many of the largest wireless telecommunications providers have made significant expenditures in technologies that have the potential to be competitive with WiMAX and may choose to continue to develop these technologies rather than utilize WiMAX. Certification standards for WiMAX are controlled by the WiMAX Forum, an industry group. Accordingly, standard setting for WiMAX is beyond our control. If standards for WiMAX change, the commercial viability of mobile WiMAX may be delayed or impaired and our development efforts may also be delayed or impaired or become more costly. The development of mobile WiMAX networks is also dependent on the availability of spectrum. Access to spectrum suitable for mobile WiMAX is highly competitive. We currently contemplate using multiple frequencies for our mobile WiMAX networks. This multi-spectrum approach is technologically challenging and will require the development of new software, integrated circuits and equipment, which will be time consuming and expensive and may not be successful. In order for our business to continue to grow and to become profitable, mobile WiMAX technology and related services must gain acceptance among consumers, who tend to be less technically knowledgeable and more resistant to new technology or unfamiliar services. If consumers choose not to adopt mobile WiMAX technology, we will not be successful in selling WiMAX products and technologies and our ability to grow our business will be limited. 38 Our wireless broadband products and technologies are in the early stages of development and will require a substantial investment before they may become commercially viable. Many of our wireless broadband products and technologies are in the early stages of development and will require a substantial investment before they may become commercially viable. We are currently unable to project when our semiconductors and other wireless broadband products based on WiMAX and Wi-Fi technologies will be commercially deployed and generate revenue. While we intend to continue to make substantial investments in development for the foreseeable future, it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that many of our wireless broadband products and technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. In addition, unexpected expenses and delays in development could adversely affect our liquidity. Many of our wireless broadband products and technologies have not been tested, even on a pre-commercial basis. Even if our new products and technologies function when tested, they may not produce sufficient performance and economic benefits to justify full commercial development efforts, or to ultimately attract customers. Failure to achieve high volume sales of our semiconductors and other wireless broadband products and technologies will adversely affect our ability to achieve profitability. Our future WiMAX products may not receive the certification we expect, which may affect our ability to sell our WiMAX products and services. If our mobile WiMAX technologies and products do not receive WiMAX industry certification, we may not be able to successfully market, license or sell our mobile WiMAX products or technologies. Our WiMAX-based products may not receive the necessary certification in the time frame we expect, or at all, and may therefore not achieve the wide acceptance that we are seeking. In addition, we expect industry standards for WiMAX to evolve and if we are not able to adapt our products and technologies to any such changes, our ability to license or sell our products and technologies would be impaired. The business plan of our Network Solutions Group is dependent on entering into or maintaining network partner relationships. Our Network Solutions Group intends to build and operate WiMAX/Wi-Fi networks for wireless service providers, cable operators, multimedia content distributors, applications service providers and Internet service providers. At present, NSG has not entered into any such arrangements and may not be able to negotiate such arrangements on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to establish and maintain these service arrangements, we may have to modify our plans for the Network Solutions Group. The dependence of our Network Solutions Group business plan is subject to a number of risks, including: · the inability to control the amount and timing of resources that our potential service provider customers devote to their network deployment activities; · the possibility that potential service provider customers could move forward and deploy networks without the assistance of NSG; · the possibility that service provider customers may experience financial or technical difficulties; 39 We may require significant capital to implement our business plan, but we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. While we estimate that our working capital will be sufficient to fund our research and development activities and our operating losses at least through 2008, we may need to secure significant additional capital in the future to implement changes to, or expansions of, our business plan and to become cash flow positive. We may also require additional cash resources to pursue investments or acquisitions, including investments in or acquisitions of other technologies, businesses or spectrum licenses. Sources of additional capital may include public or private debt and equity financings. We have completed a private placement of senior secured notes that provided us with net cash proceeds of $295.0 million available for the sole purpose of financing spectrum acquisitions and leases as well as a private placement of our Series A Senior Convertible Preferred Stock, that provided us with net cash proceeds of $351 million. The entire proceeds of our senior secured notes were used for the acquisition of WCS Wireless, Inc. for $160.5 million, the acquisition of two new EBS leases for $22.1 million and for the majority of the funding for the acquisition of 154 AWS licenses for $115.6 million. The proceeds of our Series A Senior Convertiable Preferred Stock are available to fund working capital needs and potential strategic transactions. To the extent that other attractive opportunities to acquire complimentary businesses or additional spectrum arise, we may need to raise additional funds to capitalize on such opportunities. Risks Related to Our PacketVideo Business Since our inception in April 2005, substantially all of our revenues have been generated by our PacketVideo subsidiary, which we acquired in July 2005, and we believe that PacketVideo will account for a substantial portion of our revenues until we complete the development and commercialization of our wireless broadband products and technologies. Our PacketVideo business is subject to a number of risks, including: PacketVideo may be materially and adversely affected by a ban on EVDO phones by the United States International Trade Commission. During 2006, PacketVideo’s revenues from Verizon Wireless accounted for 64% of our revenues. Our embedded software is shipped by Verizon Wireless exclusively on EVDO handsets in connection with its V-Cast offering. Broadcom has alleged that QUALCOMM has infringed certain of its patents, including patents implicated in EVDO handsets, and filed a compliant in the United States International Trade Commission (ITC). Pursuant to the ITC hearing, an administrative law judge issued an initial determination in which he found infringement on some claims of one patent, which includes technology that governs power usage within EVDO handsets. The ITC has adopted the administrative law judge’s determination on violation and will issue its decision on remedy on March 8, 2007. The final determination is then subject to Presidential review. Following the determination on violation, Broadcom petitioned the ITC for a ban on the import of all EVDO phones, and the ITC will hold public hearings to investigate the impact on domestic businesses of such a ban. If such a ban were to be adopted, Verizon Wireless may be unable to sell EVDO handsets. Because PacketVideo license fees are generally based on a one time royalty when a new handset is sold, our revenue would be materially and adversely affected if a ban on EVDO handsets were to be enacted. Reliance on a limited number of mobile phone and device manufacturers and wireless carriers . During 2006, PacketVideo’s revenues from Verizon Wireless accounted for 64% of our revenues. For the period from our inception (April 13, 2005) through December 31, 2005 PacketVideo’s sales to Verizon Wireless, Fujitsu and Nokia accounted for 22%, 14% and 11%, respectively, of our revenues. Aggregated accounts receivable from Verizon Wireless and SEMC accounted for 42% and 11%, respectively, of total gross accounts receivable at December 30, 2006. We expect that our PacketVideo subsidiary will continue to generate a significant portion of its revenues through a limited number of mobile phone and device manufacturers and wireless carriers for the foreseeable future, although these amounts may vary from period-to-period. If any of these customers decides not to embed PacketVideo software into their mobile phones and devices or otherwise reduces the amount of PacketVideo software they embed in their mobile phones or devices generally, our PacketVideo revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our agreements with mobile phone and device manufacturers are not exclusive, and many contain no minimum purchase requirements. Accordingly, mobile phone and device manufacturers may effectively terminate these agreements by no longer embedding PacketVideo’s software into their products. In addition, PacketVideo has indemnified these manufacturers from certain claims that PacketVideo’s software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Our carrier agreements are not exclusive and generally have a limited term of one or two years with evergreen, or automatic renewal, provisions upon expiration of the initial term. These agreements set out the terms of our distribution relationships with the carriers but generally do not obligate the carriers to market or distribute any of our applications. In addition, the carriers can terminate these agreements early, and in some instances, at any time, without cause. Many factors outside our control could impair PacketVideo’s ability to generate revenues from mobile phone and device manufacturers and wireless carriers, including the following: · a preference for embedded software licensed by one of PacketVideo’s competitors; · competing applications; · a decision to discontinue embedding our PacketVideo software, or mobile broadband embedded software altogether; · a carrier’s decision not to provide mobile broadband applications or content thereby reducing the need for PacketVideo’s applications; · a carrier’s network encountering technical problems that disrupt the delivery of content for our applications; 40 · a manufacturer’s decision to increase the cost of mobile phones and devices embedded with PacketVideo’s software; · a manufacturer’s decision to reduce the price it is willing to pay for embedded software such as PacketVideo’s; and · consolidation among manufacturers or wireless carriers or the emergence of new manufacturers or wireless carriers that do not license PacketVideo software. If wireless subscribers do not increase their use of their mobile phones to access multimedia content, our PacketVideo business may suffer. Our PacketVideo business is reliant on the continued and increased use of mobile phones to access multimedia content by consumers. The market for multimedia content delivery through mobile phones is relatively new. If the market does not continue to develop or develops more slowly than anticipated, mobile phone manufacturers may cease to embed PacketVideo’s software in their handsets and wireless carriers may limit or stop the delivery of multimedia content and the demand for mobile phones with embedded multimedia software may decline. If this occurs, our PacketVideo business would be harmed and our revenues would decline. If we fail to deliver our PacketVideo applications to correspond with the commercial introduction of new mobile phone models, our sales may suffer. PacketVideo’s business is tied, in part, to the commercial introduction of new mobile phones with enhanced features. Many new mobile phone models are released in the final quarter of the year to coincide with the holiday shopping season. We cannot control the timing of these mobile phone launches. Our PacketVideo software must be modified for each new mobile phone model. If we are unable to release new versions of our PacketVideo software to coincide with these new mobile phone launches, our sales of our PacketVideo software may suffer. In addition, if new mobile phone launches are delayed or if we miss the key holiday selling season, our sales may suffer. PacketVideo may experience difficulties in the introduction of new or enhanced products, which could result in reduced sales, unexpected expenses or delays in the launch of new or enhanced products. The development of new or enhanced embedded multimedia software products is a complex and uncertain process. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent our development, introduction, commercialization or marketing of new products or product enhancements. The difficulties could result in reduced sales, unexpected expenses or delays in the launch of new or enhanced products, which may adversely affect our results or operations. We do not have any manufacturing capabilities and will depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers to manufacture, assemble and package our semiconductor products. We are currently designing and developing semiconductor products including digital baseband ASICs and multi-band RFICs. If we are successful in our design and development activities and a market for these products develops, these products will need to be manufactured. Due to the expense and complexity associated with the manufacturer of digital baseband ASICs and multi-band RFICs, we intend to depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture these products. The dependence on third-parties to manufacture, assemble and package these products involves a number of risks, including: 41 · a potential lack of capacity to meet demand; · reduced control over quality and delivery schedules; · risks of inadequate manufacturing yield or excessive costs; · difficulties in selecting and integrating subcontractors; · limited warranties in products supplied to us; · price increases; and · potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. We may not be able to establish manufacturing relationships on reasonable terms or at all. The failure to establish these relationships on a timely basis and on attractive terms could delay our ability to launch these products or reduce our revenues and profitability. Defects or errors in our products and services or in products made by our suppliers could harm our relations with our customers and expose us to liability. Similar problems related to the products of our customers or licensees could harm our business. Our WiMAX products and technologies that we are developing will be inherently complex and may contain defects and errors that are detected only when the products are in use. Further, because our products and technologies that we are developing will be responsible for critical functions in our customers’ products and/or networks, such defects or errors could have a serious impact on our customers, which could damage our reputation, harm our customer relationships and expose us to liability. Defects in our products and technologies or those used by our customers or licensees, equipment failures or other difficulties could adversely affect our ability and that of our customers and licensees to ship products on a timely basis as well as customer or licensee demand for our products. Any such shipment delays or declines in demand could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. We and our customers or licensees may also experience component or software failures or defects which could require significant product recalls, reworks and/or repairs which are not covered by warranty reserves and which could consume a substantial portion of the capacity of our third-party manufacturers or those of our customers or licensees. Resolving any defect or failure related issues could consume financial and/or engineering resources that could affect future product release schedules. Additionally, a defect or failure in our products and technologies that we are developing or the products of our customers or licensees could harm our reputation and/or adversely affect the growth of mobile WiMAX markets. Because mobile WiMAX is an emerging technology that is not fully developed, there is a risk that still unknown persons or companies may assert proprietary rights to the various technology components that will be necessary to operate a WiMAX network. As a technology company, we expect to incur expenditures to create and protect our intellectual property and, possibly, to assert infringement by others of our intellectual property. We also expect to incur expenditures to defend against claims by other persons asserting that the technology that will be used and sold by our Company infringes upon the right of such other persons. Because mobile WiMAX is an emerging technology that is not fully developed, there may be a greater risk that persons or entities unknown to us will assert proprietary rights to technology components that are necessary to operate WiMAX networks or products. More than 20 companies have submitted letters of assurance related to IEEE 802.16 and amendments stating that they may hold or control patents or patent applications, the use of which would be unavoidable to create a compliant implementation of either mandatory or optional portions of the standard. In such letters, the patent holder typically asserts that it is prepared to grant a license to its essential IP to an unrestricted number of applicants on a worldwide, non-discriminatory basis and on reasonable terms and conditions. If any companies asserting that they hold or control patents or patent applications necessary to implement mobile WiMAX do not submit letters of assurance, or state in such letters that they do not expect to grant licenses, this could have an adverse effect on the implementation of mobile WiMAX networks and the sale of our mobile WiMAX products and technologies. In addition, we can not be certain of the validity of the patents or patent applications asserted in the letters of assurance submitted to date, or the terms of any licenses which may be demanded by the holders of such patents or patent applications. If we were required to pay substantial license fees to implement our mobile WiMAX products and technologies, this could adversely affect the profitability of these products and technologies. 42 As the number of competitors in our market increases and the functionality of our products is enhanced, we may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our ability to commercially launch our products and technologies and on our ability to achieve profitability. If any of our products were found to infringe on another company’s intellectual property rights or if we were found to have misappropriated technology, we could be required to redesign our products or license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. If we were unable to redesign our products or license such intellectual property rights used in our products, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. In any potential dispute involving other companies’ patents or other intellectual property, our customers could also become the targets of litigation. Any such litigation could severely disrupt the business of our customers, which in turn could hurt our relations with our customers and cause our revenues to decrease. We anticipate that we will develop a patent portfolio related to our WiMAX products and technologies. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain patents covering WiMAX products. Litigation may be required to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to license, protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, failure to protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity. Other companies or entities also may commence actions or respond to an infringement action that we initiate by seeking to establish the invalidity or unenforceability of one or more of our patents or to dispute the patentability of one or more of our pending patent applications. In the event that one or more of our patents or applications are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent or determine that the patent is not enforceable or deny issuance of the application, which could harm our competitive position. If any of our key patent claims are invalidated or deemed unenforceable, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing such patent claims. Even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. We are dependent on a small number of individuals, and if we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, our business will be adversely affected. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our board members, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, particularly Allen Salmasi, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Salmasi has been a prominent executive and investor in the technology industry for over 20 years, and the Company has benefited from his industry relationships in attracting key personnel and in implementing acquisitions and strategic plans. In addition, in order to develop and achieve commercial deployment of our mobile broadband products and technologies in competition with well-established companies such as Intel, QUALCOMM and others, we must rely on highly specialized engineering and other talent. Our key employees represent a significant asset, and the competition for these employees is intense in the wireless communications industry. We continue to anticipate significant increases in human resources, particularly in engineering resources, through 2008. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed. As a start-up company, we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in periods of poor operating performance given the significant use of incentive compensation by well-established competitors. We do not have employment agreements with our key management personnel and do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our personnel. We also have no covenants against competition or nonsolicitation agreements with certain of our key employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could negatively impact our ability to design, develop and commercialize our products and technology. We may be liable for certain indemnification payments pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization. In connection with the sale of NTI and its subsidiaries other than Old NextWave Wireless to Verizon Wireless, we agreed to indemnify NTI and its subsidiaries against all pre-closing liabilities of NTI and its subsidiaries and against any violation of the Bankruptcy Court injunction against persons having claims against NTI and its subsidiaries, with no limit on the amount of such indemnity. We are not currently aware of any such liabilities that remain following the plan of reorganization and Verizon Wireless has not made any indemnity claims. To the extent that we are required to fund amounts under the indemnification, our results of operations and our liquidity and capital resources could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may not have sufficient cash reserves to pay the amounts required under the indemnification if any amounts were to become due. 43 Risks Relating to Government Regulation Government regulation could adversely impact our development of wireless broadband products and services, our offering of products and services to consumers, and our business prospects. The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to significant change, the results and timing of which are uncertain. The FCC has jurisdiction over the grant, renewal, lease, assignment and sale of our wireless licenses, the use of wireless spectrum to provide communications services, and the resolution of interference between users of various spectrum bands. Other aspects of our business, including construction and operation of our wireless systems, and the offering of communications services, are regulated by the FCC and other federal, state and local governmental authorities. States may exercise authority over such things as billing practices and consumer-related issues. Various governmental authorities could adopt regulations or take other actions that would adversely affect the value of our assets, increase our costs of doing business, and impact our business prospects. Changes in the regulation of our activities, including changes in how wireless, mobile, IP-enabled services are regulated, changes in the allocation of available spectrum by the United States and/or exclusion or limitation of our technology or products by a government or standards body, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. Changes in legislation or regulations may affect our ability to conduct our business or reduce our profitability. Future legislative, judicial or other regulatory actions could have a negative effect on our business. Some legislation and regulations applicable to the wireless broadband business, including how IP-enabled services are regulated, are the subject of ongoing judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proceedings that could change the manner in which our industry is regulated and the manner in which we operate. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these proceedings or their potential impact on our business. If, as a result of regulatory changes, we become subject to the rules and regulations applicable to telecommunications providers, commercial mobile service providers or common carriers at the federal level or in individual states, we may incur significant administrative, litigation and compliance costs, or we may have to restructure our service offerings, exit certain markets or raise the price of our services, any of which could cause our services to be less attractive to customers. In addition, future regulatory developments could increase our cost of doing business and limit our growth. We may not have complete control over our transition of EBS and BRS spectrum, which could impact compliance with FCC rules. The FCC’s rules require transition of EBS and BRS spectrum to the new band plan on a Basic Trading Area (“BTA”) basis. See “Government Regulation-BRS-EBS License Conditions.” We do not hold all of the EBS and BRS spectrum in the BTAs in which we hold spectrum. Consequently, we will need to coordinate with other EBS and BRS licensees in order to transition spectrum we hold or lease. Disagreements with other EBS or BRS licensees about how the spectrum should be transitioned may delay our efforts to transition spectrum, could result in increased costs to transition the spectrum, and could impact our efforts to comply with applicable FCC rules. On April 27, 2006, the FCC implemented new, amended rules related to transition of the spectrum, and it adopted rules that will permit us to self-transition to the reconfigured band plan if other spectrum holders in our BTAs do not timely transition their spectrum. Our use of EBS spectrum is subject to privately negotiated lease agreements. Changes in FCC rules governing such lease agreements, contractual disputes with EBS licensees, or failures by EBS licensees to comply with FCC rules could impact our use of the spectrum. All commercial enterprises are restricted from holding licenses for EBS spectrum. Eligibility for EBS spectrum is limited to accredited educational institutions, governmental organizations engaged in the formal education of enrolled students (e.g. school districts), and nonprofit organizations whose purposes are educational. Access to EBS spectrum can only be gained by commercial enterprises through privately-negotiated EBS lease agreements. FCC regulation of EBS leases, private interpretation of EBS lease terms, private contractual disputes, and failure of an EBS licensee to comply with FCC regulations all could impact our use of EBS spectrum and the value of our leased EBS spectrum. On April 27, 2006, the FCC released new rules governing EBS lease terms. EBS licensees are now permitted to enter into lease agreements with a maximum term of 30 years; lease agreements with terms longer than 15 years must contain a “right of review” by the EBS licensee every five years beginning in year 15. The right of review must afford the EBS licensee with an opportunity to review its educational use requirements in light of changes in educational needs, technology, and other relevant factors and to obtain access to such additional services, capacity, support, and/or equipment as the parties shall agree upon in the spectrum leasing arrangement to advance the EBS licensee’s educational mission. A spectrum leasing arrangement may include any mutually agreeable terms designed to accommodate changes in the EBS licensee’s educational use requirements and the commercial lessee’s wireless broadband operations. In addition, the terms of EBS lease agreements are subject to contract interpretation and disputes could arise with EBS licensees. There can be no assurance that EBS leases will continue for the full lease term, or be renewed, or be extended beyond the current term, on terms that are satisfactory to us. Similarly, since we are not eligible to hold EBS licenses, we must rely on EBS licensees with whom we contract to comply with FCC rules. The failure of an EBS licensee from whom we lease spectrum to comply with the terms of their FCC authorization or FCC rules could result in termination, forfeiture or non-renewal of their authorization, which would negatively impact the amount of spectrum available for our use. 44 If we do not comply with FCC build-out requirements relating to our spectrum licenses, such licenses could be subject to forfeiture. Certain build-out or “substantial service” requirements apply to our licensed wireless spectrum, which generally must be satisfied as a condition of license renewal. In particular, the renewal deadline and the substantial service build-out deadline for our WCS spectrum is July 21, 2010; for our BRS and EBS spectrum, the substantial service build-out deadline is May 1, 2011; and for our AWS spectrum, the substantial service build-out deadline is December 18, 2021. Failure to make the substantial service demonstration, without seeking and obtaining an extension from the FCC, would result in license forfeiture. We have no guarantee that the licenses we hold or lease will be renewed. The FCC generally grants wireless licenses for terms of ten or fifteen years, which are subject to renewal and revocation. FCC rules require all wireless licensees to comply with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act of 1934 in order to retain their licenses. For example, licensees must meet certain construction requirements, including making substantial service demonstrations, in order to retain and renew FCC licenses. Failure to comply with FCC requirements with respect to any license could result in revocation or non-renewal of a license. There is no guarantee that licenses we hold or lease will remain in full force and effect or be renewed. New FCC concepts impacting spectrum use could affect our use of wireless spectrum. The FCC has initiated a number of proceedings to evaluate its rules and policies regarding spectrum licensing and usage. For example, it is considering new concepts that might permit unlicensed users to “share” our licensed spectrum to the extent the FCC believes harmful interference will not occur. These new uses could adversely impact our utilization of our licensed spectrum and our operational costs. Interference could negatively impact our use of wireless spectrum we hold, lease or use. Under applicable FCC rules, users of wireless spectrum must comply with technical rules that are intended to eliminate or diminish harmful radiofrequency interference between wireless users. Licensed spectrum is generally entitled to interference protection, subject to technical rules applicable to the radio service, while unlicensed spectrum has no interference protection rights and must accept interference caused by other users. Wireless devices utilizing WCS, BRS and EBS spectrum may be susceptible to interference from Satellite Digital Audio Radio Services (“SDARS”). Since 1997, the FCC has considered a proposal to permanently authorize terrestrial repeaters for SDARS operations adjacent to the C and D blocks of the WCS band. The FCC has permitted a large number of these SDARS terrestrial repeaters to operate on a special temporary authorization since 2001. Permanently authorizing SDARS repeaters adjacent to the WCS band could cause interference to WCS, BRS and EBS receivers. The extent of the interference from SDARS repeaters is unclear and is subject to the FCC’s final resolution of pending proceedings. Because WCS C and D block licenses are adjacent to the SDARS spectrum, the potential for interference to this spectrum is of greatest concern. There is a lesser magnitude concern regarding interference from SDARS to WCS A and B block licenses, and EBS and BRS licenses. Central to the FCC’s evaluation of this proposal has been the technical specification for the operation of such repeaters. SDARS licensees are seeking rule changes that would both unfavorably alter WCS technical operating requirements and permit all existing SDARS repeaters to continue to operate at their current operating parameters. Final technical rules will determine the potential interference conditions and requirements for mitigation. If SDARS repeaters result in interference to our WCS, BRS or WBS spectrum our ability to realize value from this spectrum may be impaired. 45 Increasing regulation of the tower industry may make it difficult to deploy new towers and antenna facilities. The FCC, together with the FAA, regulates tower marking and lighting. In addition, tower construction and deployment of antenna facilities is impacted by federal, state and local statutes addressing zoning, environmental protection and historic preservation. The FCC adopted significant changes to its rules governing historic preservation review of new tower projects, which makes it more difficult and expensive to deploy towers and antenna facilities. The FCC also is considering changes to its rules regarding when routine environmental evaluations will be required to determine compliance of antenna facilities with its RF radiation exposure limits. If adopted, these regulations could make it more difficult to deploy facilities. In addition, the FAA has proposed modifications to its rules that would impose certain notification requirements upon entities seeking to (i) construct or modify any tower or transmitting structure located within certain proximity parameters of any airport or heliport, and/or (ii) construct or modify transmission facilities using the 2500-2700 MHz radio frequency band, which encompasses virtually all of the BRS/EBS frequency band. If adopted, these requirements could impose new administrative burdens upon use of BRS/EBS spectrum. Risks Relating to An Investment in Our Common Stock Our derivative securities have the potential to dilute shareholder value and cause our stock price to decline On March 21, 2007, 84.5 million shares of our common stock were outstanding. Up to 46.2 million additional shares of our common stock may be issued upon the exercise or conversion of warrants, options, and shares of our Series A Senior Convertible Preferred Stock that have been issued or granted. On December 30, 2006, we had options outstanding to purchase 10.9 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $6.20 per share and warrants outstanding to purchase 500,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $6.00 per share. We also had warrants outstanding at December 30, 2006, to purchase 2.6 million shares of our common stock for $0.01 per share pursuant to the Warrant Agreement, dated July 17, 2006, among the Company and the initial purchasers of our senior notes. In addition, in March 2007, we issued 355,000 shares of Series A Senior Convertible Preferred Stock at a price of $1,000 per share of convertible preferred stock in a private offering to investment funds and other institutional investors, as well as shareholders of the Company, including NextWave Wireless Chairman and CEO, Allen Salmasi, and from Douglas Manchester, a member of the NextWave Wireless Board of Directors and Avenue Capital Group, of which Robert T. Symington, a member of the NextWave Board, is a portfolio manager. The Series A Senior Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible into shares of our common stock upon election of the holders at any time and at our election under certain circumstances. If all shares of Series A Senior Convertible Preferred Stock were converted, we would be obligated to issue 32.1 million shares of our common stock. The exercise of these derivative instruments or the conversion of the convertible preferred stock into common stock may result in significant dilution to our current stockholders. In addition, sales of large amounts of common stock in the public market upon exercise or conversion could materially adversely affect the share price. In addition, we may need to raise additional funds to fund our operations, to pay for an acquisition or to enter into a strategic alliance, and we might use equity securities, debt, cash, or a combination of the foregoing. If we use equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. A significant amount of our common stock coming on the market at any given time could result in a decline in the price of our common stock or increased volatility. Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. We believe that our future operating results over both the short- and long-term will be subject to annual and quarterly fluctuations due to several factors, some of which are outside management’s control. These factors include: · significant research and development costs; 46 · research and development issues and delays; · the financial results of our PacketVideo subsidiary; · spectrum acquisition costs; · manufacturing issues and delays; · fluctuating market demand for WiMAX services; · impact of competitive products, services and technologies; · changes in the regulatory environment; · the cost and availability of network infrastructure; and · general economic conditions. These factors affecting our future operating results are difficult to forecast and could harm our quarterly or annual operating results and the prevailing market price of our securities. If our operating results fail to meet the financial guidance we provide to investors or the expectations of investment analysts or investors in any period, securities class action litigation could be brought against us and/or the market price of our securities could decline. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest that could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Allen Salmasi, our executive officers and other members of our Board of Directors beneficially own or control 48.0% of our common stock, as of March 21, 2007. Accordingly, Mr. Salmasi and the other members of the Board of Directors will be able to significantly influence matters that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other significant corporate transactions. Our controlling stockholders may have interests that differ from your interests and may vote in a way with which you may disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. Corporate action may be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if that change of control would benefit our other stockholders, which could deprive our stockholders of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares. The significant concentration of ownership of our common stock may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they change their recommendations regarding our shares adversely or if our operating results to not meet their expectations, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry and securities analysts publish about us or our business. If these analysts fail to publish reports about us or if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Moreover, if one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, the price of our common stock could decline. The market price for our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. 47 The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology and wireless communications companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock include: · announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the selection of mobile WiMAX wireless communications technology by telecommunications providers and the timing of the roll-out of those systems; · receipt of substantial orders or order cancellations for integrated circuits and system software products for mobile WiMAX networks by us or our competitors; · quality deficiencies in technologies, products or services; · announcements regarding financial developments or technological innovations; · our ability to remediate the material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting identified in connection with our restatement of revenues of our PacketVideo subsidiary; · international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; · lack of capital to invest in WiMAX networks; · new commercial products; · changes in recommendations of securities analysts; · government regulations, including FCC regulations governing spectrum licenses; · earnings announcements; · proprietary rights or product or patent litigation; · strategic transactions, such as acquisitions and divestitures; or · rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. Our share price may be subject to volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. Shortfalls in our revenues or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. From time to time, we may repurchase our common stock at prices that may later be higher than the market value of the share on the repurchase date. This could result in a loss of value for stockholders if new shares are issued at lower prices. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to changes in the volatility of the price of our common stock, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Provisions of our charter documents could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to holders of our common stock, and could make it more difficult for you to change management. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in management that holders of our common stock might deem advantageous. Specific provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws include: · our directors serve staggered, three-year terms and accordingly, pursuant to Delaware law, can only be removed with cause; 48 · no action can be taken by stockholders except at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders called in accordance with our bylaws, and stockholders may not act by written consent; · our board of directors will be expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws, and our stockholders will be able to make, alter or repeal our bylaws by a vote of 66-2/3% of the issued and outstanding voting shares; · any vacancies on the board of directors would be filled by a majority vote of the board; · our board of directors will be authorized to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and · we will indemnify officers and directors against losses that they may incur in investigations and legal proceedings resulting from their services to us, which may include services in connection with takeover defense measures. As a result of the provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, the price investors may be willing to pay in the future for our common stock may be limited. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. ITEM 