Risk Factors We operate in the highly competitive mechanical power transmission industry and if we are not able to compete successfully our business may be significantly harmed. We operate in highly fragmented and very competitive markets in the MPT industry. Some of our competitors have achieved substantially more market penetration in certain of the markets in which we operate, such as helical gear drives and couplings, and some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial and other resources. With respect to certain of our products, we compete with divisions of our OEM customers. Competition in our business lines is based on a number of considerations, including quality, reliability, pricing, availability and design and application engineering support. Our customers increasingly demand a broad product range, and we must continue to develop our expertise in order to manufacture and market these products successfully. To remain competitive, we will need to invest regularly in manufacturing, customer service and support, marketing, sales, research and development and intellectual property protection. In the future we may not have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments and may not be able to maintain our competitive position within each of the markets we serve. We may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. Additionally, some of our larger, more sophisticated customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to increase their efficiency. If we are not selected to become one of these preferred providers, we may lose market share in some of the markets in which we compete. There is substantial and continuing pressure on major OEMs and larger distributors to reduce costs, including the cost of products purchased from outside suppliers such as us. As a result of cost pressures from our customers, our ability to compete depends in part on our ability to generate production cost savings and, in turn, find reliable, cost effective outside suppliers to source components or manufacture our products. If we are unable to generate sufficient cost savings in the future to offset price reductions, then our gross margin could be materially adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Changes in general economic conditions or the cyclical nature of our markets could harm our operations and financial performance. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the markets that we serve and on the U.S. and global economies in general. Some of the markets we serve are highly cyclical, such as the metals, mining, industrial equipment and energy markets. In addition, these markets may experience cyclical downturns. The present uncertain economic environment may result in significant quarter-to-quarter variability in our performance. Any sustained weakness in demand or continued downturn or uncertainty in the economy generally would further reduce our sales and profitability. We rely on independent distributors and the loss of these distributors could adversely affect our business. In addition to our direct sales force and manufacturer sales representatives, we depend on the services of independent distributors to sell our products and provide service and aftermarket support to our customers. We support an extensive distribution network, with over 3,000 distributor locations worldwide. Rather than serving as passive conduits for delivery of product, our independent distributors are active participants in the overall competitive dynamics in the MPT industry. During the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 36% of our net sales were generated through independent distributors. In particular, sales through our largest distributor accounted for approximately 8% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006. Almost all of the distributors with whom we transact business offer competitive products and services to our customers. In addition, the distribution agreements we have are typically non-exclusive and cancelable by the distributor after a short notice period. The loss of any major distributor or a substantial number of smaller distributors or an increase in the distributors’ sales of our competitors’ products to our customers could materially reduce our sales and profits. We must continue to invest in new technologies and manufacturing techniques; however, our ability to develop or adapt to changing technology and manufacturing techniques is uncertain and our failure to do so could place us at a competitive disadvantage. The successful implementation of our business strategy requires us to continuously invest in new technologies and manufacturing techniques to evolve our existing products and introduce new products to meet our customers’ needs in the industries we serve and want to serve. For example, motion control products offer more precise positioning and control compared to industrial clutches and brakes. If manufacturing processes are developed to make motion control products more price competitive and less complicated to operate, our customers may decrease their purchases of MPT products. Our products are characterized by performance and specification requirements that mandate a high degree of manufacturing and engineering expertise. If we fail to invest in improvements to our technology and manufacturing techniques to meet these requirements, our business could be at risk. We believe that our customers rigorously evaluate their suppliers on the basis of a number of factors, including: • product quality and availability; • price competitiveness; • technical expertise and development capability; • reliability and timeliness of delivery; • product design capability; • manufacturing expertise; and • sales support and customer service. Our success depends on our ability to invest in new technologies and manufacturing techniques to continue to meet our customers’ changing demands with respect to the above factors. We may not be able to make required capital expenditures and, even if we do so, we may be unsuccessful in addressing technological 14 Table of Contents advances or introducing new products necessary to remain competitive within our markets. Furthermore, our own technological developments may not be able to produce a sustainable competitive advantage. Our operations are subject to international risks that could affect our operating results. Our net sales outside North America represented approximately 30% of our total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006. In addition, we sell products to domestic customers for use in their products sold overseas. Our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, and our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • exchange rate controls; • tariffs or other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • interest rates; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • changes in foreign intellectual property law; • differing labor regulations; • requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in various jurisdictions; • potential political instability and the actions of foreign governments; and • restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. Our operations depend on production facilities throughout the world, many of which are located outside the United States and are subject to increased risks of disrupted production causing delays in shipments and loss of customers and revenue. We operate businesses with manufacturing facilities worldwide, many of which are located outside the United States including in Canada, China, France, Germany, and the United Kingdom. Serving a global customer base requires that we place more production in emerging markets to capitalize on market opportunities and cost efficiencies. Our international production facilities and operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns, particularly in emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such occurrences. Material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting have been identified which could result in a decrease in the value of your investment. In connection with their audit of our 2006 consolidated financial statements, our independent auditors expressed concerns that as of the date of their opinion, certain plant locations had encountered difficulty closing their books in a timely and accurate manner. The outside auditors informed senior management and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors that they believe this is a material weakness in internal controls. We have actively taken steps to address this material weakness. These steps include standardizing the financial close process, providing greater corporate oversight and review as well as implementing other 15 Table of Contents internal control procedures as part of our on-going Sarbanes-Oxley compliance program. We believe that with the addition of these steps we should be able to deliver financial information in a timely and accurate manner. However, we cannot assure you that our efforts to correct this identified material weakness will be successful or that we will not have other weaknesses in the future. If we fail to correct the existing material weaknesses or have material weaknesses in the future, it could affect the financial results that we report or create a perception that those financial results do not accurately state our financial condition or results of operations. Either of those events could have an adverse effect on your investment. If we are unable to complete our assessment as to the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if material weaknesses are identified and reported, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of your investment and make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, adopted rules requiring public companies to include in their annual reports on Form 10-K a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting as of the company’s fiscal year end. In addition, the accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must also attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. While we will expend significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures, fiscal 2007 will be the first year for which we must complete the assessment and undergo the attestation process required by Section 404 and there is a risk that we may not comply with all of its requirements. If we do not timely complete our assessment or if our internal controls are not designed or operating effectively as required by Section 404, our independent auditors may either disclaim an opinion as it relates to management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal controls or may issue a qualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls. It is possible that material weaknesses in our internal controls could be found. If we are unable to remediate any material weaknesses by December 31, 2007, our independent auditors would be required to issue an adverse opinion on our internal controls. If our independent auditors disclaim an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls or if they render an adverse opinion due to material weaknesses in our internal controls, then investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our senior secured and senior notes to decline and make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. We rely on estimated forecasts of our OEM customers’ needs, and inaccuracies in such forecasts could materially adversely affect our business. We generally sell our products pursuant to individual purchase orders instead of under long-term purchase commitments. Therefore, we rely on estimated demand forecasts, based upon input from our customers, to determine how much material to purchase and product to manufacture. Because our sales are based on purchase orders, our customers may cancel, delay or otherwise modify their purchase commitments with little or no consequence to them and with little or no notice to us. For these reasons, we generally have limited visibility regarding our customers’ actual product needs. The quantities or timing required by our customers for our products could vary significantly. Whether in response to changes affecting the industry or a customer’s specific business pressures, any cancellation, delay or other modification in our customers’ orders could significantly reduce our revenue, impact our working capital, cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult for us to predict our revenue. In the event of a cancellation or reduction of an order, we may not have enough time to reduce operating expenses to minimize the effect of the lost revenue on our business and we may purchase too much inventory and spend more capital than expected. 16 Table of Contents The materials used to produce our products are subject to price fluctuations that could increase costs of production and adversely affect our profitability. The materials used to produce our products, especially copper and steel, are sourced on a global or regional basis and the prices of those materials are susceptible to price fluctuations due to supply and demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate and other unforeseen circumstances. As of the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 57% of our cost of goods sold consisted of the purchase of raw materials required for our manufacturing processes. From the first quarter of 2004 to the end of 2006, the average price of copper and steel has increased approximately 173% and 42%, respectively. If we are unable to continue to pass a substantial portion of such price increases on to our customers on a timely basis, our future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, passing through these costs to our customers may also limit our ability to increase our prices in the future. We face potential product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or distribute, which could result in our having to expend significant time and expense to defend these claims and to pay material claims or settlement amounts. We face a business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or other adverse effects. We currently have several product liability claims against us with respect to our products. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or obtain insurance that will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful product liability defense could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or our ability to make payments under our debt obligations when due. In addition, we believe our business depends on the strong brand reputation we have developed. In the event that our reputation is damaged, we may face difficulty in maintaining our pricing positions with respect to some of our products, which would reduce our sales and profitability. We may be subject to work stoppages at our facilities, or our customers may be subjected to work stoppages, which could seriously impact our operations and the profitability of our business. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 2,500 full time employees, of whom approximately 47% were employed abroad. Approximately 300 of our North American employees and 45 of our employees in Scotland are represented by labor unions. In addition, our employees in Europe are generally represented by local and national social works councils that hold discussions with employer industry associations regarding wage and work issues every two to three years. Our European facilities, particularly those in France and Germany, may participate in such discussions and be subject to any agreements reached with employees. Our four U.S. collective bargaining agreements will expire on August 10, 2007, September 19, 2007, June 2, 2008 and February 1, 2009. Our union agreement in Scotland expires on March 31, 2007. We are currently in negotiations with the union in Scotland. We do not expect the negotiations to have a material adverse effect on operations. We may be unable to renew these agreements on terms that are satisfactory to us, if at all. In addition, two of our four U.S. collective bargaining agreements contain provisions for additional, potentially significant, lump-sum severance payments to all employees covered by the agreements who are terminated as the result of a plant closing. If our unionized workers or those represented by a works council were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown in the future, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations. Such disruption could interfere with our ability to deliver products on a timely basis and could have other negative effects, including decreased productivity and increased labor costs. In addition, if a greater percentage of our work force becomes unionized, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Many of our direct and indirect customers have unionized work forces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by these customers or their suppliers could result in slowdowns or closures of assembly plants 17 Table of Contents where our products are used and could cause cancellation of purchase orders with us or otherwise result in reduced revenues from these customers. Changes in employment laws could increase our costs and may adversely affect our business. Various federal, state and international labor laws govern our relationship with employees and affect operating costs. These laws include minimum wage requirements, overtime, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates paid, leaves of absence, mandated health and other benefits, and citizenship requirements. Significant additional government-imposed increases or new requirements in these areas could materially affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. In the event our employee-related costs rise significantly, we may have to curtail the number of our employees or shut down certain manufacturing facilities. Any such actions would be not only costly but could also materially adversely affect our business. We depend on the services of key executives, the loss of who could materially harm our business. Our senior executives are important to our success because they are instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, maintaining and expanding relationships with distributors, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, identifying expansion opportunities and arranging necessary financing. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement could be found. We believe that our senior executives could not easily be replaced with executives of equal experience and capabilities. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our key domestic executives, we cannot prevent our key executives from terminating their employment with us. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executives. If we lose certain of our key sales, marketing or engineering personnel, our business may be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing and engineering personnel. Competition for these persons in our industry is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. If we fail to retain and recruit the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. If certain of these key personnel were to terminate their employment with us, we may experience difficulty replacing them, and our business could be harmed. We are subject to environmental laws that could impose significant costs on us and the failure to comply with such laws could subject us to sanctions and material fines and expenses. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local, foreign and provincial environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the responsibility to investigate and cleanup contaminated sites that are or were owned, leased, operated or used by us or our predecessors. Some of these laws and regulations require us to obtain permits, which contain terms and conditions that impose limitations on our ability to emit and discharge hazardous materials into the environment and periodically may be subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. Fines and penalties may be imposed for non-compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and the failure to have or to comply with the terms and conditions of required permits. From time to time our operations may not be in full compliance with the terms and conditions of our permits. We periodically review our procedures and policies for compliance with environmental laws and requirements. We believe that our operations generally are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, requirements and permits and that any lapses in compliance would not be expected to result in us incurring material liability or cost to achieve compliance. Historically, the costs of achieving and maintaining compliance with environmental laws, and requirements and permits have not been material; however, the operation of manufacturing plants entails risks in these areas, and a failure by us to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations, or permits could result in civil or 18 Table of Contents criminal fines, penalties, enforcement actions, third party claims for property damage and personal injury, requirements to clean up property or to pay for the costs of cleanup, or regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, including the installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions. Moreover, if applicable environmental laws and regulations, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, become more stringent in the future, we could incur capital or operating costs beyond those currently anticipated. Certain environmental laws in the United States, such as the federal Superfund law and similar state laws, impose liability for the cost of investigation or remediation of contaminated sites upon the current or, in some cases, the former site owners or operators and upon parties who arranged for the disposal of wastes or transported or sent those wastes to an off-site facility for treatment or disposal, regardless of when the release of hazardous substances occurred or the lawfulness of the activities giving rise to the release. Such liability can be imposed without regard to fault and, under certain circumstances, can be joint and several, resulting in one party being held responsible for the entire obligation. As a practical matter, however, the costs of investigation and remediation generally are allocated among the viable responsible parties on some form of equitable basis. Liability also may include damages to natural resources. We have not been notified that we are potentially responsible party in connection with any sites we currently or formerly owned or operated or for liability at any off-site waste disposal facility. However, there is contamination at some of our current facilities, primarily related to historical operations at those sites, for which we could be liable for the investigation and remediation under certain environmental laws. The potential for contamination also exists at other of our current or former sites, based on historical uses of those sites. We currently are not undertaking any remediation or investigations and our costs or liability in connection with potential contamination conditions at our facilities cannot be predicted at this time because the potential existence of contamination has not been investigated or not enough is known about the environmental conditions or likely remedial requirements. Currently, other parties with contractual liability are addressing or have plans or obligations to address those contamination conditions that may pose a material risk to human health, safety or the environment. In addition, while we attempt to evaluate the risk of liability at the time we acquire them, there may be environmental conditions currently unknown to us relating to our prior, existing or future sites or operations or those of predecessor companies whose liabilities we may have assumed or acquired which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are being indemnified, or expect to be indemnified by third parties subject to certain caps or limitations on the indemnification, for certain environmental costs and liabilities. Accordingly, based on the indemnification and the experience with similar sites of the environmental consultants who we have hired, we do not expect such costs and liabilities to have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or earnings. We cannot assure you, however, that these third parties will in fact satisfy their indemnification obligations. If third parties become unable to, or otherwise do not, comply with their respective indemnity obligations, or if certain contamination or other liability for which we are obligated is not subject to these indemnities, we could become subject to significant liabilities. We face additional costs associated with our post-retirement and post-employment obligations to employees which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. As part of the acquisition of Power Transimission Holding LLC, which we refer to as the PTH Acquisition, we agreed to assume pension plan liabilities for active U.S. employees under the Retirement Plan for Power Transmission Employees of Colfax, the Ameridrives International Pension Fund for Hourly Employees Represented by United Steelworkers of America, Local 3199-10, and the Colfax PT Pension Plan, collectively referred to as the Prior Plans. We have established a defined benefit plan, or New Plan, mirroring the benefits provided under the Prior Plans. The New Plan accepted a spinoff of assets and liabilities from the Prior Plans, in accordance with Section 414(l) of the Internal Revenue Code, or the Code, with such assets and liabilities relating to active U.S. employees as of the closing of the PTH Acquisition. Given the funded status of the Prior Plans and the asset allocation requirements of Code Section 414(l), liabilities under the New Plan greatly exceed the assets that were transferred from the Prior Plans. The accumulated benefit obligation (not including accumulated benefit obligations of non-U.S. pension plans in the amount of $3.4 million) was 19 Table of Contents approximately $22.7 million as of December 31, 2006 while the fair value of plan assets was approximately $11.0 million as of December 31, 2006. As the New Plan has a considerable funding deficit, the cash funding requirements are expected to be substantial over the next several years, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. As of December 31, 2006, funding requirements were estimated to be $3.6 million in 2007, $2.5 million in 2008 and $1.9 million annually thereafter until 2011. These amounts are based on actuarial assumptions and actual amounts could be materially different. Additionally, as part of the PTH Acquisition, we agreed to assume all pension plan liabilities related to non-U.S. employees. The accumulated benefit obligations of non-U.S. pension plans were approximately $3.4 million as of December 31, 2006. There are no assets associated with these plans. Finally, as part of the PTH Acquisition, we also agreed to assume all post-employment and post-retirement welfare benefit obligations with respect to active U.S. employees. The benefit obligation for post-retirement benefits, which are not funded, was approximately $3.5 million as of December 31, 2006. For a description of the post-retirement and post-employment costs, see Note 9 to the audited financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our future success depends on our ability to integrate acquired companies and manage our growth effectively. Our growth through acquisitions has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. Realization of the benefits of acquisitions often requires integration of some or all of the acquired companies’ sales and marketing, distribution, manufacturing, engineering, finance and administrative organizations. Integration of companies demands substantial attention from senior management and the management of the acquired companies. In addition, we will continue to pursue new acquisitions, some of which could be material to our business if completed. We may not be able to integrate successfully our recent acquisitions or any future acquisitions, operate these acquired companies profitably, or realize the potential benefits from these acquisitions. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, brands or technology effectively, which could allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our technology and could adversely affect our ability to compete. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as on license, non-disclosure, employee and consultant assignment and other agreements and domain names registrations in order to protect our proprietary technology and rights. Applications for protection of our intellectual property rights may not be allowed, and the rights, if granted, may not be maintained. In addition, third parties may infringe or challenge our intellectual property rights. In some cases, we rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. In addition, in the ordinary course of our operations, we pursue potential claims from time to time relating to the protection of certain products and intellectual property rights, including with respect to some of our more profitable products. Such claims could be time consuming, expensive and divert resources. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies or proprietary protection of our brands, our ability to market or be competitive with respect to some or all of our products may be affected, which could reduce our sales and profitability. Goodwill comprises a significant portion of our total assets, and if we determine that goodwill has become impaired in the future, net income in such years may be materially and adversely affected. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. We review goodwill and other intangibles annually for impairment and any excess in carrying value over the estimated fair value is charged to the results of operations. Reduction in net income resulting from the write down or impairment of goodwill would affect our financial results. 20 Table of Contents Unplanned repairs or equipment outages could interrupt production and reduce income or cash flow. Unplanned repairs or equipment outages, including those due to natural disasters, could result in the disruption of our manufacturing processes. Any interruption in our manufacturing processes would interrupt our production of products, reduce our income and cash flow and could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our operations are highly dependent on information technology infrastructure and failures could significantly affect our business. We depend heavily on our information technology, or IT, infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. If we experience a problem that impairs this infrastructure, such as a computer virus, a problem with the functioning of an important IT application, or an intentional disruption of our IT systems by a third party, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns. Our leverage could adversely affect our financial health and make us vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions. We have incurred indebtedness that is substantial relative to our stockholders’ investment. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $233.7 million of indebtedness outstanding and $27.1 million available under lines of credit. We expect to incur additional indebtendness in connection with our acquisition of TB Wood’s. Our indebtedness has important consequences; for example, it could: • make it more challenging for us to obtain additional financing to fund our business strategy and acquisitions, debt service requirements, capital expenditures and working capital; • increase our vulnerability to interest rate changes and general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to finance acquisitions and to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate activities; • make it difficult for us to fulfill our obligations under our credit and other debt agreements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our markets; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have less debt. Substantially all of our assets have been pledged as collateral against any outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement governing Altra Industrial’s senior revolving credit facility, or the Credit Agreement, and the 9% senior secured notes. In addition, the Credit Agreement requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, which may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. If an event of default under the Credit Agreement occurs, then the lenders could declare all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, the Credit Agreement and the indentures governing the 9% senior secured notes and Altra Industrial’s 111/4% senior notes due 2013, or the 111/4% senior notes, have cross-default provisions such that a default under any one would constitute an event of default in any of the others. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to tax laws and regulations in many jurisdictions and the inability to successfully defend claims from taxing authorities related to our current or acquired businesses could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. Due to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims from taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. Genstar Capital Partners III, L.P. and Stargen III, L.P. (together, the Genstar Funds) have significant influence and may have conflicts of interest with our other stockholders in the future. The Genstar Funds beneficially own 30.6% of our common stock. The Genstar Funds have significant influence over the election and removal of our directors and our corporate and management policies, including potential mergers or acquisitions, payment of dividends, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. We cannot assure you that the interests of the Genstar Funds will coincide with your interests. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 22 Table of Contents 