Item 1A. Risk Factors” are not exhaustive. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction Transforma Acquisition Group Inc. is a blank check company that was organized as a corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware on July 19, 2006. We were formed for the purpose of acquiring one or more assets or control of one or more operating businesses in the technology, media or telecommunications industries through a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other similar business transaction, which we refer to as a “business combination.” Except for interest income generated on the trust account in which the majority of the proceeds of our initial public offering is held, we have not generated revenue to date. We are considered to be in the development stage and are subject to the risks associated with activities of development stage companies. Since our initial public offering in December 2006, we have been actively engaged in sourcing a suitable business combination candidate. We have met with prospective acquisition targets, service professionals and other intermediaries to discuss our company, the background of our management and our business combination preferences. However, as of the date of filing of this report we have not consummated any business combination. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this report to “the Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Transforma Acquisition Group Inc. Our initial public offering closed on December 26, 2006 with our issuance of 12,500,000 units (which consist of one share of our common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and one warrant to purchase one share of our common stock) for an offering price of $100,000,000. We will focus our investment activities on the technology, media and telecommunications industries. Using the collective skill and experience of our executive officers and directors, we will seek to consummate our initial business combination with an acquisition target: • that we believe has an undervalued business strategy or possesses underutilized assets; • at a price we believe to be below its potential value; and • that presents opportunities for: • short-term enhancements in stockholder value through operational improvements; and • long-term enhancements in stockholder value through the implementation of a transformative growth strategy, which may include the acquisition of synergistic assets or businesses. We expect that any transformative growth strategy will take advantage of emerging macroeconomic business, cultural, market, and technological trends, including: • changes in demographics and consumer behavior; • the by-passing of traditional marketplace processes; and • changes in the technology, media and/or telecommunications industries. Technology, Media and Telecommunications Industries We believe that our focus on the technology, media and telecommunications industries will provide us with a large universe of investment opportunities based on: • the size of the technology, media and telecommunications industries; • the variety of participants in the sector; and • the technological advancements, the changes in the regulatory environment, and the macroeconomic, business, cultural and technological trends and market trends that continuously impact the growth dynamic of, and spawn new businesses in, the technology, media and telecommunications industries. 4 Table of Contents Effecting a Business Combination General We were formed to acquire one or more assets or control of one or more operating businesses in the technology, media or telecommunications industries through a merger, capital stock exchange, stock purchase, asset acquisition or other similar business combination. We are not presently engaged in any substantive commercial business. We intend to utilize cash derived from the proceeds of our initial public offering, our capital stock, debt or a combination of these in effecting a business combination. Although a substantial portion of the net proceeds of our initial public offering are expected to be applied generally toward effecting a business combination, the proceeds are not otherwise designated for any more specific purposes. Accordingly, investors are investing without first having an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of any one or more business combinations. Subject to the requirement that our business combination must be with one or more acquisition targets having a fair market value that is at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of such acquisition, there are no limitations on the type of investments we can make or the percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one investment. Accordingly, other than the requirement that our business combination must be with an acquisition target having a fair market value that is at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of such acquisition, our investment policies may be changed from time to time at the discretion of our board of directors, without a vote of our stockholders. Additionally, no limits have been set on the concentration of investments in any location or type of market. We intend to focus our acquisitions efforts primarily in the technology, media and telecommunications industries. We believe that our management team and board of directors have the industry knowledge and relationships to source and execute acquisitions that will create above average stockholder returns. We have not consummated any business combination We have met with prospective acquisition targets, service professionals and other intermediaries to discuss our company, the background of our management and our business combination preferences. However, to date, we have not consummated any business combination. Except for the requirement that an acquisition target have a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of the transaction, we have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting prospective acquisition targets. Accordingly, there is no basis for investors to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any acquisition target with which we may ultimately complete a business combination. To the extent we effect a business combination with entities without established records of sales or earnings, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business and operations of such financially unstable businesses. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular acquisition target, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all significant risk factors. Sources of acquisition targets Acquisition target candidates have been, and we anticipate will continue to be, brought to our attention by various unaffiliated sources, including private equity funds, venture capital funds, law firms, companies, investment bankers and advisory firms that specialize in the technology, media or telecommunications industries. In addition, our officers, directors and founders, as well as their affiliates, have brought to our attention acquisition target candidates of which they have become aware through their business contacts as a result of formal and informal inquiries and discussions. In no event will any of our existing officers, directors or founders or any entity with which they are affiliated, be paid any finder’s fee, consulting fee or other compensation prior to, or for any services they render in order to effectuate, the consummation of a business combination (other than reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf, such as identifying potential acquisition targets, performing business due diligence on suitable acquisition targets and business combinations, as 5 Table of Contents well as traveling to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective acquisition targets to examine their operations). Selection of an acquisition target and structuring of a business combination Subject to the requirement that our business combination must be with an acquisition target having a fair market value that is at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of such acquisition, our management will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting prospective acquisition targets. In evaluating a prospective acquisition target, our management will consider, among other factors, the following: • An existing under-capitalized business that has the potential to further grow products and services in multiple geographies; • A partial product or service offering that may need to be enhanced by one or more acquisitions to complete the product or service offering; • An asset embedded in an underperforming business which asset could be made more valuable through improved management, technology, or enhanced operational efficiency; and/or • An existing business requiring a non-traditional business model in order to adapt to the changing technological and regulatory environment and unlock stockholder value. These criteria are not intended to be exhaustive. Any evaluation relating to the merits of a particular business combination will be based, to the extent relevant, on the above factors as well as other considerations deemed relevant by our management in effecting a business combination consistent with our business objective. In the case of all possible acquisitions, we will seek to determine whether the transaction is advisable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. We believe it is possible that our attractiveness as a potential buyer of businesses may increase after the consummation of an initial transaction and there may or may not be additional acquisition opportunities as we grow and integrate our acquisitions. We may or may not make future acquisitions. Fundamentally, however, we believe that, following an initial transaction, we may identify and evaluate potential acquisition targets that will utilize these same investment strategies. To the extent we are able to identify multiple acquisition targets and options as to which business or assets to acquire as part of an initial transaction, we intend to seek to consummate the acquisition which is most attractive and provides the greatest opportunity for creating stockholder value. The determination of which entity is the most attractive would be based on our analysis of a variety of factors, including whether such acquisition would be in the best interests of our stockholders, the purchase price, the terms of the sale, the perceived quality of the assets and the likelihood that the transaction will close. The time and costs required to select and evaluate an acquisition target and to structure and consummate our initial business combination cannot presently be ascertained with any degree of certainty. Any costs incurred with respect to the identification and evaluation of a prospective acquisition target with which a business combination is not ultimately completed will result in a loss to us and reduce the amount of capital available to otherwise complete a business combination. None of the officers or directors will receive any compensation from us prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, except for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them on our behalf. Fair market value of acquisition target The initial acquisition target that we acquire must have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of our net assets (including the funds held in the trust account other than the portion representing our underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of such acquisition, subject to the conversion rights described below, although we may acquire a target whose fair market value significantly exceeds 80% of our net assets. To accomplish this, we may seek to raise additional funds through a secured financing or a private offering of debt or equity securities if such funds are required to consummate such a business combination, although we have not entered into any such fund raising arrangement and do not currently anticipate effecting such a financing other than in connection with the consummation of our initial business combination. The fair market value of the acquisition target will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such 6 Table of Contents as actual and potential sales, earnings and cash flow and book value. If our board is not able to independently calculate the fair market value of the acquisition target, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent third party appraiser, which may or may not be an investment banking firm that is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”) with respect to the satisfaction of such criteria. Because any opinion, if obtained, would merely state that fair market value meets the 80% of net assets threshold, it is not anticipated that copies of such opinion would be distributed to our stockholders, although copies will be provided to stockholders who request it. We will not be required to obtain an opinion from a third party as to the fair market value if our board of directors independently determines that the acquisition target complies with the 80% threshold. Nevertheless, we reserve the right to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent third party appraiser if we deem it appropriate, for example, in the event of an actual or perceived conflict of interest. Possible lack of business diversification Our initial business combination must be with an acquisition target which satisfies the minimum valuation standard at the time of such acquisition, as discussed above. Consequently, it is possible that we may only have the ability to effect a single business combination. Therefore, at least initially, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of a single business operation. Unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations of entities or assets operating in multiple industries or multiple areas of a single industry, it is probable that we will not have the resources to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may: • subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination, and • result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In the event we ultimately determine to simultaneously acquire several properties or assets and those properties or assets are owned by different sellers, we may need for each of those sellers to agree that our purchase of its properties or assets is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to consummate our initial business combination. With multiple acquisitions, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the properties or assets into a single operating business. Limited ability to evaluate the acquisition target’s management Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective acquisition target when evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of the acquisition target’s management will prove to be correct. Following a business combination, we may seek to recruit additional managers to supplement the incumbent management of the acquisition target. We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to recruit additional managers, or that any such additional managers we do recruit will have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary to enhance the incumbent management. Opportunity for stockholder approval of business combination Prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we will submit the transaction to our stockholders for approval, even if the nature of the acquisition is such as would not ordinarily require stockholder approval under Delaware law. In connection with seeking stockholder approval of a business combination, we will furnish our stockholders with proxy solicitation materials prepared in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which, among other matters, will include a description of the operations of the acquisition target and historical financial statements of the business. 7 Table of Contents In connection with the vote required for any business combination, our founders have agreed to vote all of their shares of common stock owned by them prior to our initial public offering (but not shares acquired in our initial public offering or the secondary market) in accordance with the majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders. We will proceed with our initial business combination only if a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of our initial business combination and public stockholders owning less than 40% of the shares sold in our initial public offering both vote against our initial business combination and exercise their conversion rights. Upon the consummation of our initial business combination, unless required by Delaware law, the federal securities laws, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, or the rules and regulations of an exchange upon which our securities are listed, we do not presently intend to seek stockholder approval for any subsequent acquisitions. Conversion rights At the time we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder the right to have his or her shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against our initial business combination and our initial business combination is approved and completed. Our founders will not have such conversion rights with respect to any shares of common stock owned by them. The actual per share conversion price will be equal to the amount in the trust account, which include $3,000,000 from the private placement of warrants, the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ deferred discount, and the interest earned on the trust account, net of taxes payable, remaining in the trust account (other than one-half of the interest earned on the trust account, net of taxes payable, up to an aggregate amount of $2,000,000, which will be released to us upon our demand, as follows: (i) an aggregate amount of up to $1,250,000, within 12 months after the completion of our initial public offering, and (ii) an aggregate amount of up to $750,000 plus any remaining portion of the $1,250,000 not previously released to us during the initial 12-month period, during the period that is between 12 months and 24 months after the completion of our initial public offering) (calculated as of two business days prior to the consummation of the proposed business combination), divided by the number of shares sold in our initial public offering. Without taking into any account any interest earned on the trust account, the initial per share conversion price would be $7.88 or $0.12 less than the per unit offering price of $8.00. An eligible stockholder may request conversion at any time after the mailing to our stockholders of the proxy statement and prior to the vote taken with respect to a proposed business combination at a meeting held for that purpose, but the request will not be granted unless the stockholder votes against our initial business combination, our initial business combination is approved and completed, and the stockholder continues to own his shares through completion of our initial business combination. Any request for conversion, once made, may be withdrawn at any time up to the date of the meeting. It is anticipated that the funds to be distributed to stockholders entitled to convert their shares who elect conversion will be distributed promptly after completion of a business combination. Public stockholders who convert their stock into their share of the trust account still have the right to exercise any warrants that they still hold. We will not complete our initial business combination if public stockholders owning 40% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering both exercise their conversion rights and vote against our initial business combination. Dissolution and liquidation if no business combination If we do not complete our initial business combination by June 26, 2008 (i.e., 18 months after the completion of our initial public offering) or by December 26, 2008 (i.e., 24 months after the completion of our initial public offering) if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement has been executed by June 26, 2008 and our initial business combination has not yet been consummated, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (a) provides that our corporate powers will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and we will not be able to engage in any other business activities and (b) requires that our board of directors no later than 15 days after the expiration of such time period adopt a resolution finding our dissolution advisable and provide notice as soon as possible thereafter of a special meeting of stockholders to vote on our dissolution. Pursuant to Delaware law, our dissolution also requires the affirmative vote of stockholders owning a majority of our then outstanding common stock. In order to solicit such stockholder approval, (i) our board of directors will cause to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting 8 Table of Contents forth the board of directors’ recommendation that we dissolve; (ii) we would expect that on the date that the board of directors adopts such recommendation, we would file the preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission; (iii) if the Securities and Exchange Commission does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then 10 days following the passing of such deadline, we will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders, and 30 days following the passing of such deadline we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our dissolution; and (iv) if the Securities and Exchange Commission does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive their comments 30 days following the passing of such deadline. We will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty), and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our dissolution. In the event that we do not initially obtain approval for our dissolution by stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding common stock, we will continue to take all reasonable actions to obtain such approval, which may include adjourning the meeting from time to time to allow us to obtain the required vote and retaining a proxy solicitation firm to assist us in obtaining such vote. However, we cannot assure you that our stockholders will approve our dissolution in a timely manner or at all. If we are not able to obtain approval from a majority of our stockholders, we cannot dissolve and liquidate and we will not be able to distribute funds from our trust account to holders of our common stock sold in our initial public offering and these funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. We anticipate that our liquidation will occur pursuant to Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law and, in this event, our board of directors will be required under Section 281(b) to adopt a plan of distribution pursuant to which the corporation shall pay or make reasonable provision to pay all existing claims and obligations of the corporation, all contingent, conditional or unmatured contractual claims, claims subject of a pending suit, and claims that are likely to arise or become known within 10 years after our dissolution. Our board of directors intends to adopt a plan of distribution and to distribute the funds held in the trust account and any of our remaining assets to holders of our common stock sold in our initial public offering as promptly as practicable following our dissolution. Until adoption of our plan of distribution and distribution of the funds held in the trust account, the funds will remain in the trust account and held by the trustee in permitted investments. Assuming our dissolution is approved by our directors and stockholders in accordance with Delaware law, holders of our common stock sold in our initial public offering will be entitled to receive their proportionate share of the trust account (inclusive of the proceeds from the private placement, the remaining balance of any interest net of any income taxes due on such interest and the underwriters’ deferred discount). In addition, such holders will be entitled to receive a pro rata portion of our remaining assets not held in the trust account, less amounts we pay, or reserve to pay, for all of our liabilities and obligations. These liabilities and obligations include our corporate expenses arising during our remaining existence and the costs associated with our dissolution and liquidation. Our corporate expenses are expected to be primarily associated with preparation for and conduct of our special meeting of stockholders and our continuing public reporting obligations, including legal services, proxy soliciting firms, services of our independent public accounting firm as well as legal fees we may incur in the event of disputes with any claimants or creditors. To the extent that funds reserved to pay liabilities or obligations are not subsequently used for such purpose, the funds will be available for distribution to our holders of common stock sold in our initial public offering or for ongoing corporate expenses including costs of our liquidation during our remaining existence. Our founders have waived their rights to participate in any distribution with respect to shares of common stock owned by them immediately prior to our initial public offering (but not shares acquired in our initial public offering or in the secondary market). If we dissolve and liquidate before the consummation of a business combination, there will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless. If we were to expend all of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, other than the proceeds deposited in the trust account, and without taking into account the remaining one-half interest, if any, earned on the trust account, the initial per share liquidation price would be $7.88, or $0.12 less than the per unit offering price of $8.00. The proceeds deposited in the trust account could, however, become subject to the claims of our creditors, if any, which could have higher priority than the claims of our public stockholders. We cannot assure you that the actual per share liquidation price will not be less than $7.88, plus interest, net of taxes, due to claims of creditors. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective acquisition targets or other entities we engage execute agreements with us 9 Table of Contents waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our management would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and would only enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver if management believed that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Our founders have agreed, subject to certain exceptions, that they will be personally liable, on a joint and several basis, to cover claims made by such third parties, but only if, and to the extent, the claims reduce the amounts in the trust account available for payment to our stockholders in the event of a liquidation and the claims are made by a vendor or service provider for services rendered, or products sold, to us or by a prospective acquisition target. However, our founders will not have any personal liability as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party who executed a waiver (including a prospective acquisition target) or the underwriters. We cannot assure you, however, that our founders would be able to satisfy such obligations. Additionally, the underwriters of our initial public offering have agreed to forfeit any rights or claims against the proceeds held in the trust account which includes a portion of their discount. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred from claims brought after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, as stated above, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our stockholders may extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Because we do not intend to comply with Section 280, Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law would require us to adopt a plan of dissolution that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective acquisition targets to acquire, we believe the only likely claims that could arise would be from our vendors (such as accountants, lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) or potential acquisition targets. As described above, we will seek to have all vendors and prospective acquisition targets execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account. As a result, we believe the claims that could be made against us are significantly limited and the likelihood that any claim that would result in any liability extending to the trust is remote. Moreover, because we will seek to obtain the waiver letters described above, we believe the funds held in the trust account should be excluded from the claims of any creditors in connection with any bankruptcy proceeding. Our public stockholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only in the event of our dissolution and liquidation or if they seek to convert their respective shares into cash upon a business combination which the stockholder voted against and which is completed by us. In no other circumstances will a stockholder have any right or interest of any kind to or in the trust account. Voting against our initial business combination alone 10 Table of Contents will not result in conversion of a stockholder’s shares into a pro rata share of the trust account. The stockholder must have also exercised his or her conversion rights described above. Competition Identifying, executing and realizing attractive returns on business combinations is highly competitive and involves a high degree of uncertainty. We expect to encounter intense competition for potential acquisition targets from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, operating businesses, and other entities and individuals, both foreign and domestic. Many of these competitors are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. Additional investment funds and blank check companies with investment objectives similar to ours may be formed in the future by other unrelated parties and these funds and companies may have substantially more capital and may be able to have access to and utilize additional financing on more attractive terms. While we believe that there are numerous potential acquisition targets with which we could combine using the net proceeds of our initial public offering, together with additional financing, if available, our ability to compete in combining with certain sizeable acquisition targets will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing a business combination with certain acquisition targets. In addition: • the requirement that we obtain stockholder approval of a business combination may delay or prevent the consummation of a transaction within the 18-month or 24-month time periods; • the requirement that we prepare a proxy statement and notice of special meeting of stockholders in accordance with the requirements of Delaware law and the federal securities laws, which proxy statement will be required to be submitted to and reviewed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, in connection with such business combination may delay or prevent the completion of a transaction; • our outstanding warrants, the purchase option granted to one of the underwriters of our initial public offering, CRT Capital Group LLC, and the warrants we expect to issue in the private placement, and the dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain acquisition targets; • the conversion of common stock held by our public stockholders into cash may reduce the resources available to us to fund an initial business combination; and • the requirement to acquire assets or an operating business that have a fair market value at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of our initial business combination could require us to acquire several assets or closely related operating businesses at the same time, all of which sales would be contingent on the closings of the other sales, which could make it more difficult to consummate our initial business combination. Facilities We do not own any real estate or other physical properties. We maintain our principal executive offices at 350 Park Avenue, 10th Floor, New York, NY 10022. The cost for this space is included in the monthly fee of $7,500 that S&B Investment Management Group, LLC charges us for general and administrative services, including office space, utilities and administrative support. We believe, based on fees for similar services in the New York, NY area, that the fee charged by S&B Investment Management Group, LLC is at least as favorable as we could obtain from an unaffiliated person. We consider our current office space, combined with the other office space otherwise available to our executive officers, adequate for our current operations. Employees We have three executive officers. None of our officers, upon whom we are dependant prior to effecting a business combination, have entered into an employment agreement with us and none are obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our matters and intend to devote only as much time as they deem necessary to our affairs. The amount of time they will devote in any time period will vary based on whether an acquisition target has 11 Table of Contents been selected for our initial business combination and the stage of our initial business combination process we are in. Accordingly, once management locates a suitable acquisition target to acquire they will spend more time investigating such acquisition target and negotiating and processing our initial business combination (and consequently more time devoted to our affairs) than they would prior to locating a suitable acquisition target. Available Information We file with or submit to the SEC annual, quarterly and current periodic reports, proxy statements and other information meeting the informational requirements of the Exchange Act. While we do not have a website with available filings, we will provide, at no additional charge, copies of these reports, proxy and information statements and other information upon request to our address at 350 Park Avenue, 10th Floor, New York, NY 10022, Attention: Jon Lambert, or by telephone to (646) 521-7805. You may also inspect and copy these reports, proxy statements and other information, and related exhibits and schedules, at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information filed electronically by us with the SEC, which are available on the SEC’s Internet site at http://www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors before making a decision to invest in our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Subject to our initial objective of acquiring an operating business or other assets in the technology, media or telecommunications industries, we have not yet selected an acquisition target with which to complete a business combination. As a result, we are unable to ascertain the merits or risks of the business or other assets that we may ultimately operate. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial conditions or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Company and our Business The report of the independent registered public accounting firm that audited our financial statements includes a “going concern” explanatory paragraph due to the possibility that we may not consummate a business combination within the required time frame, which will require us to dissolve and liquidate. The audit report in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007, includes an explanatory paragraph that states that due to the possibility that a business combination may not be consummated within the required timeframe, there is “substantial doubt” about our ability to continue as a going concern. We must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of acquisition by June 26, 2008 (i.e., 18 months after the completion of our initial public offering) or by December 26, 2008 (i.e., 24 months after the completion of our initial public offering) if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement has been executed by June 26, 2008). We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case we will be required to dissolve and liquidate our assets, and if we are forced to dissolve and liquidate before a business combination and distribute amounts remaining in the trust account, our public stockholders may receive less than $8.00 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination within the prescribed time frame and are forced to dissolve and liquidate our assets, the per share liquidation distribution may be less than $8.00 because of the expenses paid in our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses, the anticipated costs associated with seeking a business combination and any claims of our creditors. Furthermore, if we dissolve and liquidate 12 Table of Contents before the completion of a business combination, there will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. Identifying, executing and realizing attractive returns on business combinations is highly competitive and involves a high degree of uncertainty. We expect to encounter intense competition for potential acquisition targets from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, operating businesses, and other entities and individuals, both foreign and domestic. Many of these competitors are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. Additional investment funds and blank check companies with similar investment objectives as ours may be formed in the future by other unrelated parties and these funds and companies may have substantially more capital and may be able to have access to and utilize additional financing on more attractive terms. While we believe that there are numerous potential acquisition targets with which we could combine using the net proceeds of our initial public offering, together with additional financing, if available, our ability to compete in combining with certain sizeable acquisition targets will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing a business combination with certain acquisition targets. In addition: • the requirement that we obtain stockholder approval of a business combination may delay or prevent the consummation of a transaction within the 18-month or 24-month time periods; • the requirement that we prepare a proxy statement and notice of special meeting of stockholders in accordance with the requirements of Delaware law and the federal securities laws, which proxy statement will be required to be submitted to and reviewed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, in connection with such business combination may delay or prevent the completion of a transaction; • our outstanding warrants, the purchase option we granted to CRT Capital Group LLC and the warrants we issued in the private placement, and the dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain acquisition targets; • the conversion of common stock held by our public stockholders into cash may reduce the resources available to us to fund an initial business combination; and • the requirement to acquire assets or an operating business that have a fair market value at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of our initial business combination (i) could require us to acquire several assets or closely related operating businesses at the same time, all of which sales would be contingent on the closings of the other sales, which could make it more difficult to consummate our initial business combination, and (ii) together with our ability to proceed with a business combination if public stockholders owning up to 40% of the shares sold in our initial public offering vote against our business combination and exercise their conversion rights, may require us to raise additional funds through the private sale of securities or incur indebtedness in order to enable us to effect such a business combination. If we do not consummate a business combination and are forced to dissolve, payments from the trust account to our public stockholders may be delayed. We currently believe that any plan of dissolution and distribution subsequent to the expiration of the 18 and 24-month deadlines would proceed in approximately the following manner: • our board of directors will, consistent with its obligations described in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to dissolve, prior to the passing of such deadline, convene and adopt a specific plan of dissolution and distribution, which it will then vote to recommend to our stockholders; at such time it will also cause to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting out the plan of dissolution and distribution as well as the board’s recommendation of the plan; 13 Table of Contents • promptly after the passing of such deadline, we would file our preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission; • if the Securities and Exchange Commission does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then, within 10 days following the passing of such deadline, we will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders, and within 30 days following the passing of such deadline we will convene a meeting of our stockholders, at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and distribution; and • if the Securities and Exchange Commission does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive such comments within approximately 30 days following the passing of such deadline. We will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty, and which may be substantial) and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and distribution. In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and distribution and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. Pursuant to the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our powers following the expiration of the permitted time periods for consummating a business combination automatically will be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation. The funds held in our trust account (other than one-half of the interest earned on the trust account, net of taxes payable, up to an aggregate amount of $2,000,000, which will be released to us upon our demand, as follows: (i) an aggregate amount of up to $1,250,000, within 12 months after the completion of our initial public offering, and (ii) an aggregate amount of up to $750,000 plus any remaining portion of the $1,250,000 not previously released to us during the initial 12-month period, during the period that is between 12 months and 24 months after the completion of our initial public offering) may not be distributed except following our dissolution and, unless and until approval is obtained from our stockholders, the funds held in our trust account will not be released. These procedures, or a vote to reject any plan of dissolution and distribution by our stockholders, may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and distribution. Upon distribution of the trust account following our dissolution and liquidation, our stockholders may be held liable for claims of third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If a corporation complies with certain statutory procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that the corporation makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred from claims brought after the third anniversary of the dissolution. The procedures in Section 280 include a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims may be brought against us, a 90-day period during which we may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions may be made to stockholders. If we do not follow the procedures in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our holders of common stock may extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. We do not intend to comply with Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Because we do not have an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to consummate a business combination in the technology, media or telecommunications industries. We 14 Table of Contents have no present revenue and we will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. If the net proceeds from our initial public offering not placed in the trust account and our share of the interest earned on the trust account are insufficient to allow us to operate for 24 months from our initial public offering, we may not be able to complete a business combination. We currently believe that the funds available to us from the net proceeds of our initial public offering not placed in the trust account (together with up to an aggregate amount of $2,000,000 from one-half of the interest earned on the trust account, net of taxes payable, which will be released to us upon our demand, as follows: (i) an aggregate amount of up to $1,250,000, within 12 months after the completion of our initial public offering, and (ii) an aggregate amount of up to $750,000 plus any remaining portion of the $1,250,000 not previously released to us during the initial 12-month period, during the period that is between 12 months and 24 months after the completion of our initial public offering) will be sufficient to allow us to operate for at 24 months from our initial public offering, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of these funds to pay due diligence costs in connection with a potential business combination or to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for an acquisition target. We could also use a portion of these funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep acquisition targets from “shopping” around for transactions with others on terms more favorable to such acquisition targets) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into such a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from an acquisition target and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to any other potential acquisition targets. Moreover, we may be required to expend a significant portion of the available proceeds in pursuit of a business combination which is not ultimately consummated. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to cover our expenses, we may be required to obtain additional financing from our executive officers, our directors, our founders or third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing and none of our executive officers, directors or founders are obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be required to dissolve and liquidate prior to consummating a business combination. A significant portion of our working capital could be expended in pursuing business combinations that are not consummated. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific acquisition target and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. In addition, we may opt to make down payments or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with structuring and negotiating a business combination. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point in connection with the abandoned transaction, potentially including down payments or exclusivity or similar fees, will not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific acquisition target, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons including those beyond our control, such as if our public stockholders holding 40% or more of our common stock vote against the transaction and exercise their conversion rights even though a majority of our public stockholders approve the transaction. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could materially and adversely affect our subsequent attempts to locate and combine with another business. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Because the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with an unidentified acquisition target, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC promptly following completion of our initial public offering including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of 15 Table of Contents blank check companies, such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to these rules, including Rule 419, our units were immediately tradable and we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances than we would if we were subject to such rule. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per share liquidation price received by stockholders may be less than the $7.88 per share held in trust. Placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Upon our dissolution, we will be required, pursuant to Delaware General Corporate Law Section 281, to pay or make reasonable provision to pay all of our claims and obligations, including contingent or conditional claims, which we intend to pay, to the extent sufficient to do so, from our funds not held in the trust account. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective acquisition targets or other entities with which we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements, that such waivers will be enforceable or they would otherwise be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances in which we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our management would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and would enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver only if management believed that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. In addition, creditors may seek to interfere with the distribution process under state or federal creditor and bankruptcy laws, which could delay the actual distribution of such funds or reduce the amount ultimately available for distribution to our public stockholders. If we are required to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, the funds held in the trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders. We cannot assure you that the per share distribution will not be less than $7.88, plus the remaining one-half net interest accrued, due to such claims, or that there will not be delays in distributing funds in addition to those imposed by our duties to comply with Delaware General Corporation Law procedures and federal securities laws and regulations. Our founders have agreed, subject to certain exceptions, that they will be personally liable, on a joint and several basis, to cover claims made by such third parties, but only if, and to the extent, the claims reduce the amounts in the trust account available for payment to our stockholders in the event of a liquidation and the claims are made by a vendor or service provider for services rendered, or products sold, to us or by a prospective acquisition target. Based on representations made to us by our founders, we currently believe that they are capable of funding a shortfall in our trust account to satisfy their foreseeable indemnification obligations. However, we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. We cannot assure you that our founders will be able to satisfy those obligations or that the proceeds in the trust account will not be reduced by such claims. Further, our founders will not have any personal liability as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party who executed a waiver (including a prospective acquisition target) or the underwriters of our initial public offering. 16 Table of Contents Under Delaware law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains certain requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering that will apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides among other things, that: • upon completion of our initial public offering, $98,500,000 of the proceeds from the offering, including the underwriters’ deferred discount and the proceeds of the private placement, were to be deposited into the trust account, which proceeds may not be disbursed from the trust account until the earlier of (1) our initial business combination or (2) our liquidation, or as otherwise permitted in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation; • prior to consummating our initial business combination, we must submit such business combination to our stockholders for approval; • we may consummate our initial business combination if approved by a majority of the shares of our common stock voted by our public stockholders and public stockholders owning not more than 40% of the shares sold in our initial public offering both vote against our initial business combination and exercise their conversion rights; • if our initial business combination is approved and consummated, public stockholders who voted against our initial business combination and who exercised their own conversion rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account (other than up to an aggregate amount of $2,000,000 from one-half of the interest earned on the trust account, net of taxes payable, which will be released to us upon our demand, as follows: (i) an aggregate amount of up to $1,250,000, within 12 months after the completion of our initial public offering, and (ii) an aggregate amount of up to $750,000 plus any remaining portion of the $1,250,000 not previously released to us during the initial 12-month period, during the period that is between 12 months and 24 months after the completion of our initial public offering); • if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle, or a definitive agreement is not signed within the time periods specified in this prospectus, then we will be dissolved and distribute to all of our public stockholders their pro rata share of the trust account; and • we may not consummate any other merger, capital stock exchange, stock purchase, asset acquisition or other similar business combination other than a business combination that meets the conditions specified in this prospectus, including the requirement that our initial business combination be with one or more operating businesses whose fair market value, collectively, is at least equal to 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of such business combination. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires that we obtain the unanimous consent of stockholders to amend the above provisions. However, the validity of unanimous consent provisions under Delaware law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the unanimous consent requirement constitutes a practical prohibition on amendment in violation of the stockholders’ implicit rights to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. In that case, some or all of the above provisions could be amended without unanimous consent and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders. However, we view the foregoing provisions as obligations to our stockholders and we will not take any action to waive or amend any of these provisions, such that such waiver or amendment would take effect prior to the consummation of our initial business combination. Because we have not yet selected any acquisition target with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business’ operations. Because we have not yet selected a prospective acquisition target with which to complete a business combination, investors currently have no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the acquisition target. 17 Table of Contents Although our management will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular acquisition target, we cannot assure you that they will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in an acquisition target. Except for the limitation that an acquisition target have a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of the acquisition, we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition target in the technology, media or telecommunications industries. There may be tax consequences associated with our acquisition, holding and disposition of target companies and assets. We may incur significant taxes in connection with effecting acquisitions, holding, receiving payments from, and operating target companies and assets, and disposing of target companies and assets. We may issue shares of our capital stock to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 32,500,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 5,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. There are 625,003 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the purchase option granted to CRT Capital Group LLC) and the 5,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitment to do so, we are likely to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may issue debt securities, which could limit our ability to operate our business and return value to our stockholders. If we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding; • our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; 18 Table of Contents • using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; • increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes; and • other disadvantages compared to our competitors, such as venture capital funds, who have less debt. Our ability to successfully consummate a business combination and to be successful thereafter will be dependent upon the efforts of our management. Our ability to successfully consummate a business combination will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. None of our key personnel have entered into either employment or consulting agreements with us. Therefore, our key personnel will only remain with the combined company upon the consummation of a business combination if they choose to do so and are able to negotiate and agree to mutually acceptable employment or consultancy terms, which terms would be determined at such time by the respective parties and disclosed to stockholders at the time we seek approval for the initial business combination. Furthermore, we will not be able to grant shares of common stock or options to our key personnel prior to the earlier of the consummation of our initial business combination or the total release of funds in the trust account, which may affect our hiring and retention efforts. Additionally, we may also employ other personnel following a business combination, including the management associated with the acquisition candidate. While we intend to closely scrutinize any such individuals, we cannot assure you that our assessment of them will prove to be correct. The loss of any of our executive officers could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations prior to our initial business combination are dependent upon our executive officers. Our current executive officers intend to stay with us until the consummation of a business combination or our dissolution and liquidation. Our executive officers will only remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they choose to do so and they are able to negotiate mutually agreeable employment terms as a part of any such combination, which terms would be disclosed to our stockholders in any proxy statement relating to such transaction. If our executive officers choose to remain with us after our initial business combination, they will negotiate the terms of our initial business combination as well as the terms of their employment arrangements and may have a conflict of interest in negotiating the terms of our initial business combination while, at the same time, negotiating terms of their employment arrangements. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers could have a detrimental effect on us after a business combination. Our executive officers and directors will allocate some portion of their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our executive officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. None of our officers or directors are obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If an officer or director is required to devote more substantial amounts of time to his or her other businesses and affairs, it could limit his or her ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. 19 Table of Contents Our executive officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with additional entities that are, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Some of our executive officers and directors are affiliated with entities in the technology, media and telecommunications industries. None of our officers or directors are currently a principal of, or affiliated or associated with, a blank check company. However, all of our officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become, affiliated with additional entities, including other “blank check” companies. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, our executive officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that any of these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. If we seek to effect a business combination with an entity that is directly or indirectly affiliated with one or more of our executive officers and directors, conflicts of interest could arise. Our executive officers and directors either currently have or may in the future have affiliations with companies in the technology, media and telecommunications industries. If we were to seek a business combination with an acquisition target with which one or more of our executive officers or directors may be affiliated, conflicts of interest could arise in connection with negotiating the terms of and completing our initial business combination. Conflicts that may arise may not be resolved in our favor. In the event we pursue a business combination with an entity with which one or more of our executive officers and directors is affiliated, we would obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm regarding the fairness to our stockholders, from a financial point of view, of the business combination. Our executive officers and directors are not currently aware of any specific opportunities to consummate a business combination with any entities with which they are affiliated, whether by virtue of the sale of assets, spin-off, divestiture or otherwise, and there have been no preliminary discussions or indications of interest with any such entity or entities. Although we will not be specifically focusing on or targeting any transaction with any entities affiliated with any of our executive officers and directors, and we are unaware of any such actual or potential transaction as of the date of this prospectus, we would consider such a transaction after the offering if any such opportunity were presented to us. It is possible that we could consider an opportunity with entities affiliated with any of our officers and directors without first seeking to consummate a business combination with an entity that is not affiliated with any of our executive officers and directors. Any attempt to consummate more than one transaction as our initial business combination will make it more difficult to consummate our initial business combination. In the event that we are unable to identify a single operating company with which to engage in a business combination, we may seek to combine contemporaneously with multiple operating companies whose collective fair market value is at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of those combinations. Business combinations involve a number of special risks, including diversion of management’s attention, legal, financial, accounting and due diligence expenses, and general risks that transactions will not be consummated. To the extent we try to consummate more than one transaction at the same time, all of these risks will be exacerbated, especially in light of the small number of our executive officers and directors and our limited financial and other resources. Completing our initial business combination through more than one transaction likely will result in increased costs as we would be required to conduct a due diligence investigation of more than one business and negotiate the terms of our initial business combination with multiple entities. In addition, due to the difficulties involved in consummating multiple business combinations concurrently, our attempt to complete our initial business combination in this manner would increase the chance that we would be unable to successfully complete our initial business combination in a timely manner. Further, if our initial business combination entails simultaneous transactions with different entities, each entity will need to agree that its transaction is contingent upon the simultaneous closing of the other transactions, which may make it more difficult for us, or delay our ability, to complete the initial business combination. As a result, if we 20 Table of Contents attempt to consummate our initial business combination in the form of multiple transactions, there is an increased risk that we will not be in a position to consummate some or all of those transactions, which could result in our failure to satisfy the requirements for an initial business combination and force us to liquidate. We may combine with an acquisition target with a history of poor operating performance and there is no guarantee that we will be able to improve the operating performance of that acquisition target. Due to the competition for business combination opportunities, we may combine with an acquisition target with a history of poor operating performance if we believe that acquisition target has attractive attributes that can take advantage of trends in the technology, media and telecommunications industries. However, combining with an acquisition target with a history of poor operating performance can be extremely risky and we may not be able to improve its operating performance. If we cannot improve the operating performance of such acquisition target following our business combination, then our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Factors that could result in our not being able to improve operating performance include, among other things: • inability to predict changes in technological innovation; • competition from superior or lower priced services and products; • lack of financial resources; • inability to attract and retain key executives and employees; • claims for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights and/or the availability of third-party licenses; and • changes in, or costs imposed by, government regulation. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of an acquisition target, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. In connection with the capital requirements that will be required for any particular business combination, if the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, because of the size of our initial business combination or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from converting stockholders, we may be required to seek additional financing through the issuance of equity or debt securities or other financing arrangements. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we may be compelled to restructure or abandon that particular business combination and seek alternative acquisition targets. In addition, if we complete a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of acquisition target. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of our combined business or businesses. None of our executive officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after the consummation of a business combination. The 3,124,997 shares of common stock owned by our founders will not participate in liquidation distributions, and a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular acquisition target is appropriate for a business combination. Our founders own, in the aggregate, 3,124,997 shares (after forfeiture of 468,750 shares that was acknowledged on January 25, 2007) of our common stock and the 3,000,000 warrants purchased in the private placement, but have waived their right to receive distributions (other than with respect to any shares acquired in our initial public offering or in the secondary market) following our dissolution and liquidation prior to a business combination. These shares will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting an acquisition business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, our officers’ and 21 Table of Contents directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable acquisition target may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our public stockholders’ best interest. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Initially, we may only be able to complete one business combination, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Of the net proceeds from our initial public offering, the private placement and the underwriters’ deferred discount, $98,500,000 is held in the trust account and may be used by us to complete a business combination. Our business combination must be with a business having a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of such acquisition. We have no limitation on our ability to raise additional funds through the private sale of securities or the incurrence of indebtedness that would enable us to effect a business combination with an operating business having a fair market value in excess of 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of such an acquisition. However, we have not entered into any such fundraising arrangement and have no current intention of doing so. Consequently, initially it is probable that we will have the ability to complete only a single business combination. We may not be able to acquire more than one acquisition target because of various factors, including insufficient financing or the difficulties involved in consummating the contemporaneous acquisition of more than one operating company. Therefore, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete a business combination with only a single operating business, which may have only a limited number of products or services. The resulting lack of diversification may: • result in our dependency upon the performance of a single or small number of operating businesses; • result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services; and • subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry so as to diversify risks and offset losses. Further, the 22 Table of Contents prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of the initial acquisition target(s) we acquire. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (other than our founders) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against our initial business combination and our initial business combination is approved and consummated. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata share of the trust account. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having to incur an amount of leverage that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. Our founders, including all of our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our founders, including all of our officers and directors, own 20% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock (not including any units or shares of common stock purchased by our founders in either our initial public offering or in the secondary market). Our board of directors will be divided into three classes, each of which generally will serve for a term of three years, with only one class of directors being elected in each year. There may not be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of our initial business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of this “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors would be considered for election. As a result, our officers and directors may exert considerable influence on actions requiring a stockholder vote, including the election of officers and directors, amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the approval of benefit plans, mergers, and similar transactions (other than approval of our initial business combination). Moreover, except to the extent stockholder proposals are properly and timely submitted, our directors will determine which matters, including prospective business combinations, to submit to a stockholder vote. As a result, they will exert substantial control over actions requiring a stockholder vote both before and following a business combination. In connection with the stockholder vote required for our initial business combination, all of our founders, including all of our officers and directors, have agreed to vote all of the shares of common stock owned by them immediately prior to our initial public offering (but not shares acquired in our initial public offering or in the secondary market) in accordance with the majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders. The exercise by our founders of their registration rights, and/or by CRT Capital Group LLC of its purchase option and registration rights, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of the registration rights and CRT Capital Group LLC’s purchase option may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our founders are entitled to make a demand that we file a registration statement to register their shares of common stock and the shares of common stock underlying the warrants sold in the private placement at any time commencing 90 days prior to the expiration of the transfer restrictions on such securities. If our founders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock, including those underlying the warrants issued in the private placement, then there will be an additional 6,124,997 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. In addition, we sold to CRT Capital Group LLC an option to purchase up to a total of 375,000 units identical to those units offered in our initial public offering, and have further agreed to grant to CRT Capital Group LLC certain “piggy-back” registration rights with respect to the units issuable upon exercise of its 23 Table of Contents purchase option. If this purchase option is exercised, and all of the underlying warrants are also exercised, and CRT Capital Group LLC exercises its registration rights, there will be an additional 750,000 shares of our common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights and the purchase option may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the acquisition target, as the stockholders of the acquisition target may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of the registration rights and the purchase option may have on the trading market for our common stock. A market for our securities may not develop, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. The price of our securities may vary significantly due to our reports of operating losses, one or more potential business combinations, the filing of periodic reports with the SEC, and general market or economic conditions. Furthermore, an active trading market for our securities may not be sustained. You may be unable to sell your securities unless a market can be established and sustained. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to consummate a business combination, or we may be required to incur additional expenses if we are unable to dissolve after the expiration of the allotted time periods. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to consummate a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. To this end, the proceeds held in the trust account may be invested by the trust agent only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, with a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to comply with certain exemptions under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. In addition, if we do not complete a business combination by June 26, 2008 (i.e., 18 months after the completion of our initial public offering) or by December 26, 2008 (i.e., 24 months after the completion of our initial public offering) if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement has been executed by June 26, 2008 and our initial business combination has not yet been consummated), our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (1) provides that our corporate powers will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and (2) requires that, no later than 15 days after the expiration of the allotted time periods, our board of directors adopt a resolution finding our dissolution advisable and that it provide notice as soon as possible thereafter of a special meeting of stockholders to vote on our dissolution. If our stockholders do not approve our dissolution in a timely manner or at all, we will not be able to liquidate and distribute the trust account to holders of our common stock sold in our initial public offering for an extended period of time or indefinitely, and, consequently, we may be deemed to be an investment company. 24 Table of Contents If we are deemed to be an investment company at any time, we will be required to comply with additional regulatory requirements under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which would require additional expenses for which we have not budgeted. We may or may not obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party as to the fair market value of the acquisition target or that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our stockholders. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that either the acquisition target we select has a fair market value equal to at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount) or that the price we are paying is fair to stockholders. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment or our board of directors. However, we will not enter into an initial business combination with any of our founders, officers or directors, or any of their affiliates, without first obtaining an opinion from an independent investment banking firm regarding the fairness to our stockholders, from a financial point of view, of the business combination. The American Stock Exchange may require us to file an additional listing application on the consummation of a business combination, and/or the American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from trading on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to effect transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future. In addition, in connection with a business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange in the future, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which would require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a more limited amount of news and analyst coverage for us; • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and • a decreased ability of our security holders to sell their securities in certain states. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his warrants and causing such warrants to be worthless. No warrant held by public stockholders or issuable upon exercise of the purchase option granted to CRT Capital Group LLC will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock with respect to any such warrant unless, at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrant. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, the warrants held by public stockholders or issuable upon 25 Table of Contents exercise of the purchase option granted to CRT Capital Group LLC may have no value, the market for such warrants may be limited and such warrants may expire worthless. Even if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not current, the warrants issued to our initial stockholders may be exercisable for unregistered shares of common stock. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. We may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units (including warrants issued and outstanding as a result of the exercise of the purchase option that we have agreed to sell to CRT Capital Group LLC and the warrants to be sold in the private placement) at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if, and only if, the last sales price of our common stock on the American Stock Exchange, or other principal market on which our common stock may be traded, equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption, and a registration statement under the Securities Act relating to shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is effective and expected to remain effective to and including the redemption date and a prospectus relating to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is available for use to and including the redemption date. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (1) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (2) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (3) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Because our executive officers and directors own warrants that may be exercised on a “cashless” basis, a conflict of interest may arise in the event we elect to redeem the warrants at a time when it may be disadvantageous for other warrant holders to exercise their warrants. So long as the conditions permitting management to elect to redeem the warrants are met, if management believes that a number of holders will not exercise their outstanding warrants upon redemption, management may elect to redeem the warrants in order to permit such executive officers and directors to own a greater percentage of our voting common stock, on a fully-diluted basis, because the warrants owned by our executive officers and directors are not required to be exercised for cash. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include a staggered board of directors and the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. As a result, at any annual meeting only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election. Since our “staggered board” would prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our board of directors at any annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. Risks Related to Doing Business Outside the United States Since we may acquire an acquisition target that is located outside the United States, we may encounter risks specific to one or more countries in which we ultimately operate. We may acquire a business or businesses with some relationship to countries outside of the United States. If we acquire a company that has operations outside the United States, we will be exposed to risks that could negatively 26 Table of Contents impact our future results of operations following a business combination. The additional risks we may be exposed to in these cases include but are not limited to: • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • cultural and language differences; • foreign exchange controls; • the possibility of our assets being nationalized; • crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and • deterioration of political relations with the United States. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial results. An acquisition target with which we combine may do business and generate sales within other countries. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in such international operations. It is also possible that some or all of our operating expenses may be incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies in those countries where we have operations against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Because we must furnish our stockholders with acquisition target financial statements prepared in accordance with and reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we will not be able to complete a business combination with some prospective acquisition targets unless their financial statements are first reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The federal securities laws require that a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports and proxy materials submitted to stockholders. Because our initial business combination must be with an acquisition target that has a fair market value equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such business acquisition (all of our assets, including the funds held in the trust account other than the deferred underwriting discount, less our liabilities), we will be required to provide historical and/or pro forma financial information to our stockholders when seeking approval of a business combination with one or more acquisition targets. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. If a proposed acquisition target, including one located outside of the United States, does not have financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed acquisition target. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential acquisition targets with which we may combine. Risks Associated with the Technology, Media and Telecommunications Industries Our investments in technology, media and telecommunications companies may be extremely risky due, in part, to market conditions, and we could lose all or part of our investments. An investment in technology, media and telecommunications companies may be extremely risky relative to an investment in companies operating in other industries. Technology, media and telecommunications companies typically have limited operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. In addition, technology, media and telecommunications companies generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be 27 Table of Contents parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In recent years, a number of Internet companies have filed for bankruptcy or liquidated, and many large companies whose purchases affect the demand for products and services in the technology, media and telecommunications industries have experienced financial difficulties, which may result in decreased demand for such products and services in the future. Our investments in the technology, media and telecommunications industries may be extremely risky and we could lose all or part of our investments. The information available regarding technology, media and telecommunications companies is limited which could result in poor investment decisions on our part and we could lose all or part of our investments. Many technology, media and telecommunications companies are privately owned and there is generally little publicly available information about these businesses; therefore, we may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these businesses. As a result, we may make investment decisions based on incomplete information or we may be unaware of material problems in a business in which we invest, which make our investments extremely risky. If we make an investment in a technology, media and telecommunications company that is dependent on current management, the loss of such management may materially affect results of operations. Technology, media and telecommunications companies are often dependent on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the operations of any technology, media and telecommunications companies we may acquire. The technology, media and telecommunications industries are highly cyclical, which may materially affect our future performance and ability to sell our products or services and, in turn, hurt our profitability. Customers of technology, media and telecommunications products and services tend to defer purchases during periods of economic weakness, opting instead to continue to use what they already own. Conversely, during periods of economic strength, technology, media and telecommunications sales frequently exceed expectations. As a consequence, revenues and earnings for technology, media and telecommunications companies may fluctuate more than those of less economically sensitive companies. Due to the cyclical nature of the technology, media and telecommunications industries, inventories may not always be properly balanced, resulting in lost sales when there are shortages or write-offs when there are excess inventories. This may materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, and results of operations of any acquisition targets that we may acquire. Moreover, many of the customers of technology, media and telecommunications products and services also may be subject to similar cycles and less able to pay for such products and services during periods of economic weakness. If we are unable to keep pace with the changes in the technology, media and telecommunications industries, the products of any acquisition target that we acquire could become obsolete and it could materially hurt our results of operations. The technology, media and telecommunications industries are generally characterized by intense, rapid changes, often resulting in product obsolescence or short product life cycles. Our ability to compete after the consummation of a business combination will be dependent upon our ability to keep pace with changes in the industry. If we are ultimately unable to adapt our operations as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations following a business combination will be materially adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect or enforce the intellectual property rights of any acquisition targets that we acquire. After consummating a business combination, the procurement and protection of trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets will likely be critical to our success. We will likely rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect any proprietary technologies and rights that we may acquire. Despite our efforts to protect those proprietary technologies and rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of those proprietary rights or deter independent development of technologies that compete with the business we acquire. Our competitors may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights and seek damages, the payment of royalties, licensing fees and/or an injunction against the sale of our products or services. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. It is also possible that third parties may claim we have infringed their patent, trademark, copyright or other proprietary rights. Claims or litigation, with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and business. Depending on the acquisition target(s) that we acquire, it is likely that we will have to protect copyrights, trademarks, patents, and domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful in every location. With respect to certain proprietary rights, such as trademarks and copyrighted materials, of the acquisition target(s) that we will acquire, we expect that the acquisition target(s) will have entered into license agreements in the past and will continue to enter into such agreements in the future. These licensees may take actions that materially diminish the value of such acquisition target or targets’ proprietary rights or cause material harm to such acquisition target or targets’ reputation. The technology, media and telecommunications industries are highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively which could materially adversely affect our revenues and profitability upon consummation of a business combination. The technology, media and telecommunications industries are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We expect competition to intensify in the future. Many of the competitors we will face upon consummation of a business combination will have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than we do. Competing with these companies after a business combination will require investment by us in engineering, research and development and marketing. We may not have the resources to make these investments and may not be successful in making these investments. In addition, the management of our competitors may have greater operating resources and experience in their respective industries. Some of these competitors may also offer a wider range of services than we can and may have greater name recognition and a larger client base. For example, cable network operators and communications operators are increasingly offering similar products in an effort to become an all-in-one provider of voice, high speed internet access and video services to customers. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. They may also be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to clients, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. If we are unable to compete effectively following a business combination, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to significant regulatory requirements in connection with our efforts to consummate a business combination with a company in the media and telecommunications industries, which may result in our failure to consummate our initial business combination within the required time frame and may force us to liquidate. Acquisitions of media and telecommunications companies are often subject to significant regulatory requirements and consents, and we will not be able to consummate a business combination with certain types of media and telecommunications companies without complying with applicable laws and regulations and obtaining required governmental or client consents. We may not receive any such required approvals or we may not receive them in a timely manner, including as a result of factors or matters beyond our control. Satisfying any requirements of regulatory agencies may delay the date of our consummation of our initial business combination beyond the 29 Table of Contents required time frame (i.e., June 26, 2008 or December 26, 2008 if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed by June 26, 2008 and the initial business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated). If we fail to consummate our initial business combination within the required time frame we may be forced to dissolve and liquidate. We may not be able to comply with government regulations that may be adopted with respect to the media and telecommunications industries. The media and telecommunications industries have historically been subject to substantial government regulation. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, is continuing implementation of the Communications Act of 1996, which, when fully implemented, may significantly impact the media and telecommunications industries and change federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding the provision of cable, internet and telephony services. After we complete a business combination, these regulations may materially affect the types of products or services we may offer, the rates we are permitted to charge and our method of operation. We cannot assure you that regulations currently in effect or adopted in the future will not have a material adverse affect on our ability to acquire a particular target or the operations of a business acquired by us. Government regulation of the media and telecommunications industries and the uncertainty over government regulation of the Internet could harm our operating results and future prospects. Certain segments of the media and telecommunications industries historically have been subject to substantial government regulation, both in the United States and overseas. If we consummate a business combination with an acquisition target in these industries, changes in regulatory requirements in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products, limit the growth of the markets we serve, or require costly alterations of current or future products. Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers. On the other hand, few laws or regulations currently apply directly to access of or commerce on the Internet. New regulations governing the Internet and Internet commerce, if adopted, could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition following a business combination. New regulations governing the Internet and Internet commerce could include matters such as changes in encryption requirements, sales taxes on Internet product sales, and access charges for Internet service and/or content and/or commerce providers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 