Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report and our other filings with the SEC before making a future investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and the value of our securities could substantially decline. Risks Relating to Our Business Our cash reserves will not be sufficient to meet the payment obligations under our secured notes at their current maturity dates and there can be no assurance that a further maturity extension, a refinancing transaction or sales of our wireless spectrum yielding sufficient proceeds to retire our indebtedness will be achieved. Any maturity extension or refinancing transaction may involve significant cost, including the accrual of payment-in-kind interest for an extended term which will increase our aggregate amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, the aggregate principal amount of our secured indebtedness was $1,022 million. This amount includes our Senior Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $137.8 million, our Second Lien Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $193.3 million and our Third Lien Subordinated Secured Convertible Notes due 2011 (the “Third Lien Notes” and together with the Senior Notes and Second Lien Notes, the “Notes”) with an aggregate principal amount of $690.9 million. On December 14, 2011, we entered into an Amendment and Limited Waiver (the “2011 Amendment and Waiver”) to the agreements governing our Notes, under which the maturity of our First Lien Notes was extended to December 31, 2012, the maturity of our Second Lien Notes was extended to January 31, 2013, and the maturity of our Third Lien Notes was extended to February 28, 2013. No amendment or consent fee was paid to the Holders in connection with the 2011 11 Table of Contents Amendment and Waiver. Our current cash reserves are not sufficient to meet our payment obligations under our secured notes at their current maturity dates. Additionally, we may not be able to consummate sales of our wireless spectrum assets yielding sufficient proceeds to retire this indebtedness at the current scheduled maturity dates. If we are unable to further extend the maturity of our secured notes, or identify and successfully implement alternative financing to repay our secured notes, the holders of our Notes could proceed against the assets pledged to collateralize these obligations. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Insufficient capital to repay our debt at maturity would significantly restrict our ability to operate and could cause us to seek relief through a filing in the United States Bankruptcy Court. Any alternative financing and/or maturity extension of our Notes may be costly to obtain, and could involve the issuance of equity securities that could cause significant dilution to our existing stockholders. A refinancing or further maturity extension of our secured notes may be costly to obtain, and, if successful, will result in a greater aggregate amount of indebtedness due at maturity resulting from the accrual of payment-in-kind interest for the extended term. Such extension could also involve the issuance of equity securities that could cause significant dilution to existing stockholders. Because we currently do not have the ability to repay our debt at maturity, there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, and our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph highlighting this uncertainty in its report dated March 12, 2012. In the event of a default, the holders of our notes could proceed against the assets pledged to collateralize these obligations, which include the Company’s spectrum assets and the capital stock of its material subsidiaries. A failure to obtain a maturity extension or refinancing transaction could cause the Company to seek relief through a filing in the United States Bankruptcy Court. Our financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes continuity of operations and realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recovery of assets and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is predicated upon our ability to obtain a maturity extension or refinancing of our debt, or to consummate asset sales yielding net proceeds sufficient to retire our debt. Our capital structure requires that we successfully monetize most of our wireless spectrum assets for net proceeds substantially in excess of our cost basis in order to retire our debt. The value of our equity securities is dependent on our ability to successfully retire our debt. If we complete a refinancing transaction or obtain a maturity extension, the aggregate amount of our secured debt will be increased due to accrued payment-in-kind interest for the extended term to maturity. There is no guarantee that we will be able to find third parties interested in purchasing our wireless spectrum assets at prices sufficient to retire this debt prior to maturity, even if extended. If we are unable to consummate sales of our wireless spectrum assets for net proceeds that are sufficient to retire our indebtedness, the value of our equity securities will be significantly impaired or eliminated. The sale price of our wireless spectrum assets will be impacted by many factors beyond our control including, among other things: • the FCC’s new technical rules relating to the operation of satellite digital audio radio services and services using our WCS spectrum licenses; • the timing and allocated costs of build-out or substantial service requirements attached to our domestic and international spectrum licenses, where a failure to comply with these requirements could result in license forfeiture; • timing of closure of potential sales, particularly if it is necessary to accelerate the planned sale of certain of our spectrum licenses in order to meet debt payment obligations if we are not able to obtain a maturity extension; • worldwide economic conditions, which we believe have adversely affected manufacturers of telecommunications equipment and technology and led to a delay in global network deployments; 12 Table of Contents • timing and the availability of standardized technology and equipment that is able to operate in our licensed and leased spectrum; • availability of wireless spectrum in the United States in particular, which could be affected by potential government auctions of spectrum not previously available in the market; and • availability of capital for prospective spectrum bidders, which has been negatively impacted by the downturn in the credit and financial markets. If we are unable to consummate sales of our wireless spectrum assets that are sufficient to retire our indebtedness, the holders of our notes could proceed against the assets pledged to collateralize these obligations, which include our spectrum assets and the capital stock of our material subsidiaries, which would impair our ability to continue as a going concern and the value of our equity securities would be impaired or eliminated. If we successfully monetize our wireless spectrum assets at prices substantially in excess of our cost basis in order to retire our debt, we will rely on our substantial net operating loss carryforwards to offset the taxable gains that may arise as a result of such sales. Accordingly, if the use of our expected net operating loss carryforwards becomes limited, the after-tax proceeds realized from our spectrum sales may be reduced and the value of our equity securities or debt securities may be impaired. As stated above, our capital structure requires that we successfully monetize a substantial portion of our wireless spectrum assets for net proceeds substantially in excess of our cost basis in order to retire our debt. The value of our equity securities is dependent on our ability to successfully retire our debt. We estimate that, as of December 31, 2011, we had federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $908.1 million, which begin to expire in 2023. We plan to use our NOLs to offset future gains on the sale of our spectrum assets. If our ability to use our NOLs as anticipated to offset any gains is limited, the after-tax proceeds realized from our spectrum sales may be reduced. Depending on the ultimate sale prices for our spectrum assets, the availability of our NOLs may be essential to ensuring the full payment of our Third Lien Notes and/or the realization of value for our equity securities. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” may generally thereafter only utilize its pre-change losses to offset a fixed amount of taxable income per year, subject to certain adjustments. A corporation generally undergoes an ownership change if the percentage of stock of the corporation owned by one or more 5% shareholders has increased by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period (with certain groups of less-than-5% shareholders treated as a single shareholder for this purpose). Based on our analysis to date, we do not believe that we have undergone an “ownership change” in the past. However, subsequent changes in our stock ownership, including the purchase or sale of our common stock by 5% shareholders, changes in the indirect beneficial ownership of such stock, and issuances or redemptions of common stock or other equity securities by us, could result in an ownership change that would trigger the imposition of limitations under Section 382. If an ownership change occurs, the availability of our NOLs for use may be severely limited, subject to an adjustment for so-called net “built-in” gains that are recognized within the five-year period after the ownership change. Although we would expect to significantly benefit from the adjustment for net built-in gains with respect to any spectrum sales following an ownership change, the availability of our NOLs against any future gains from such sales may nevertheless be materially impaired. The amount and availability of our NOLs is subject to examination and adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Accordingly, there is no assurance that the IRS will agree with our determination as to the available amount of NOLs in respect of any spectrum sales. In addition, the rules relating to U.S. federal income taxation are under ongoing review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, resulting in revisions of regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts, as well as statutory changes. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could adversely impair our currently expected ability to use our NOLs. 13 Table of Contents We are highly leveraged and our operating flexibility will be significantly reduced by our debt covenants. As of December 31, 2011, the aggregate principal amount of our secured indebtedness was $1,022 million. This amount includes our Senior Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $137.8 million, our Second Lien Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $193.3 million and our Third Lien Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $690.9 million. Covenants in the purchase agreements for our Senior Notes and Second Lien Notes impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions prohibit or limit our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to, among other things: • pay dividends to our stockholders; • incur, or cause to incur, additional indebtedness or incur liens; • sell assets for consideration other than cash or for net proceeds less than our cost basis; • consolidate or merge with or into other companies; • issue shares of our common stock or securities of our subsidiaries; • make capital expenditures or other strategic investments in our business not contemplated by our operating budget; or • acquire assets or make investments. We anticipate that our overall level of indebtedness and covenant restrictions will: • limit our ability to pursue business opportunities; • render us more vulnerable to general adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions; and • require us to dedicate proceeds from asset sales to service our debt. A breach of any covenants contained in the note purchase agreements governing our secured notes could result in a default under our indebtedness. If we are unable to repay or refinance those amounts, the holders of our notes could proceed against the assets pledged to collateralize these obligations, which include our spectrum assets and substantially all of our other assets. The terms of our Senior Notes and Second Lien Notes require us to certify our compliance with a restrictive operating budget and to maintain a minimum cash balance. A failure to comply with these terms may result in an event of default which could result in the acceleration of maturity of our indebtedness and impair our ability to continue as a going concern. The terms of our Senior Notes and Second Lien Notes require us to deliver a six-month operating budget to the noteholders on a quarterly basis, which budget is reasonably acceptable to Avenue AIV US, L.P., an affiliate of Avenue Capital Management II, L.P. (“Avenue Capital II”). Avenue Capital II holds 78% of the aggregate principal amount of our Second Lien Notes and 75% of the aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes. We must deliver monthly certifications relating to our cash balances to the holders of our Senior Notes and Second Lien Notes. If we are unable to certify that our cash balances have not deviated in a negative manner by more than 10% from budgeted balances, default interest will accrue and, if such condition persists for three monthly reporting periods, an event of default would occur under our Senior Notes and Second Lien Notes and, if the maturity of the foregoing indebtedness were to be accelerated, an event of default would occur under our Third Lien Notes. In addition, we must certify that we have maintained a minimum cash balance of $1.0 million, and any failure to maintain such minimum cash balance will result in an immediate event of default under our Senior Notes and Second Lien Notes and, if the maturity of the foregoing indebtedness were to be accelerated, our Third Lien Notes. Upon an acceleration of our debt following an event of default, the holders of our notes could proceed against the assets pledged to collateralize these obligations, which include our spectrum assets and substantially all of our other assets, which would impair our ability to continue as a going concern. 14 Table of Contents We have become and may continue to be the target of securities class action suits and derivative suits which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources. Securities class action suits and derivative suits are often brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Defending against these suits can result in substantial costs to us and divert the attention of our management. On September 16, 2008, a putative class action lawsuit, captioned “Sandra Lifschitz, On Behalf of Herself and All Others Similarly Situated, Plaintiff, v. NextWave Wireless Inc. et al., Defendants,” was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California against us and certain of our officers. The suit alleges that the defendants made false and misleading statements and/or omissions in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. The suit seeks unspecified damages, interest, costs, attorneys’ fees, and injunctive, equitable or other relief on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of our common stock during the period from March 30, 2007 to August 7, 2008. A second putative class action lawsuit captioned “Benjamin et al. v. NextWave Wireless Inc. et al.” was filed on October 21, 2008 alleging the same claims on behalf of purchasers of our common stock during an extended class period, from November 27, 2006 through August 7, 2008. On February 24, 2009, the Court issued an Order consolidating the two cases and appointing a lead plaintiff pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. On May 15, 2009, the lead plaintiff filed an Amended Complaint, and on June 29, 2009, we filed a Motion to Dismiss that Amended Complaint. On March 5, 2010, the Court granted our Motion to Dismiss without prejudice, permitting the lead plaintiff to file an Amended Complaint. On March 26, 2010, the lead plaintiff filed a Second Amended Consolidated Complaint, and we subsequently filed a Motion to Dismiss. On March 16, 2011, the Court granted our Motion and dismissed the complaint without prejudice. On May 5, 2011, the lead plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint, and we again filed a Motion to Dismiss. On November 21, 2011, the Court granted our Motion and dismissed the case with prejudice. On December 19, 2011, the lead plaintiff filed a Notice of Appeal with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The lead plaintiff’s initial brief is due on March 28, 2012 and our response will be due on April 27, 2012. We have not recorded any significant accruals for contingent liabilities associated with this matter based on our belief that a liability, while possible, is not probable. Further, any possible range of loss cannot be estimated at this time. Our common stock is no longer traded on The Nasdaq Global Market (“Nasdaq”) or any national securities exchange, and investors no longer have the benefit of certain exemptions from state securities laws governing resales, liquidity benefits and governance protections afforded by a Nasdaq (or other national securities exchange) listing. As a result of our delisting from Nasdaq in July 2010, we are not currently subject to its corporate governance requirements and investors may not have the same protections as are afforded to stockholders of companies listed on Nasdaq. For example, we are no longer required to maintain a majority of independent directors on our Board of Directors. Delisting from Nasdaq may also result in increased obligations under state securities laws and decreased coverage by securities analysts. Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB, an over-the-counter electronic quotation service operated by Pink OTC Markets Inc. Markets operated by Pink OTC Markets Inc. are generally regarded as less efficient and liquid than Nasdaq. The ability to trade our common stock on the OTCQB depends on the presence and investment decisions of willing buyers and sellers. Accordingly, if an active and liquid trading market price for our common stock does not develop or, if developed, does not continue, the market price of our common stock will be adversely affected. In addition, because we are no longer listed on Nasdaq, sales of our common stock by brokers in certain states may be limited or prohibited pending completion of registration filings required under state securities laws. 15 Table of Contents Trading in our common stock may be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a “penny stock”. A “penny stock” is any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange. Additional disclosure burdens relating to penny stocks imposed upon broker-dealers by the SEC requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could further limit the market liquidity of our stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. Special Risk Considerations Relating to our October 2010 Sale of our Remaining Interest in PacketVideo Corporation to NTT DOCOMO, INC. We no longer have any significant operating revenues. Given our previous divestiture and/or discontinuation of operations of our network infrastructure subsidiaries, all of our significant operating revenues during the first nine months of 2010 were generated by PacketVideo. After the sale of the PacketVideo shares to DOCOMO in October 2010, we no longer have any significant operating revenues and, if we are not able to successfully sell our wireless spectrum assets to generate cash flow, we may not be able to comply with our debt covenants and may not be able to continue as going concern. Following the sale, we became a very small public company without any significant operating revenues. The Company remains a publicly traded company and continues to be subject to SEC rules and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While all public companies face the costs and burdens associated with being publicly traded, given the small size of our company and the lack of significant operating revenues, these costs and burdens are significant to us. Risks Relating to Government Regulation If we do not comply with build-out requirements relating to our domestic spectrum licenses, such licenses could be subject to forfeiture. Certain “build-out” or “substantial service” requirements apply to our licensed wireless spectrum, which generally must be satisfied as a condition of the license and/or license renewal. In particular, for our domestic WCS spectrum, there are two substantial service build-out deadlines: March 4, 2014 and September 1, 2016; and for our domestic AWS spectrum, the substantial service build-out deadline is December 18, 2021. Failure to make the substantial service demonstration domestically, without seeking and obtaining an extension from the FCC, would result in forfeiture of the affected license. The substantial service deadline for our domestic WCS spectrum was July 21, 2010 under the FCC rules effective at that time. However, the FCC adopted new rules on May 20, 2010, that, when they became effective on September 1, 2010, purported to replace the July 21, 2010 substantial service requirement with new requirements that must be met by March 4, 2014 and additional requirements that must be met by September 1, 2016. We filed substantial service showings with the FCC on July 20, 2010 for all of our WCS licenses under the rules then in effect. The FCC dismissed them on June 14, 2011 in accordance with June 2010 announcement that all substantial service showings would be dismissed given the new performance requirements it had adopted. Failure to make the substantial service demonstrations by the new deadlines of March 4, 2014 and September 1, 2016 without seeking and obtaining an extension from the FCC would result in license forfeiture. 16 Table of Contents AWS licensees must comply with all applicable legal and technical rules imposed by the FCC, including those found in Part 27 of Title 47 of the CFR. All of our AWS licenses are granted for a 15-year license term, with a renewal term of ten years. AWS licensees are required to demonstrate that they are providing “substantial service” in their license area within the initial 15-year license term. For our AWS licenses, the renewal deadline and the substantial service build-out deadline is December 18, 2021. Failure to make the substantial service demonstration, without seeking and obtaining an extension from the FCC, would result in license forfeiture. The AWS spectrum includes a large number of incumbent federal government and non-government operations that must be relocated to other spectrum. AWS licensees are required to coordinate their operations to avoid interfering with these incumbent stations until relocation is complete. A small number of these incumbent stations must be protected indefinitely. In certain cases, the AWS licensee must pay for the relocation of incumbent stations within the AWS licensee’s license area. AWS licensees are effectively prohibited from deploying time-division duplex (TDD) systems in the AWS spectrum. These requirements could affect the value of our AWS spectrum. The FCC’s rules for meeting the substantial service requirements are written generally so as to enable flexibility in providing service. However, because the rules are subject to interpretation, the FCC has discretion in determining if the substantial service showing is adequate to meet the rules and there is a risk that the FCC may not approve our substantial service showing and any of our licenses that did not meet the substantial service requirement would then be subject to non-renewal. If we do not comply with build-out requirements relating to our Canadian spectrum licenses, such licenses could be subject to forfeiture. In Canada, our 2.3 GHz licenses are subject to mid-term in-use demonstration requirements by November 2012 and April 2013 for 63 and 24 of our licenses which are subject to renewal in November of 2014 and April of 2015, respectively. In order for us to operate our Canadian spectrum under Canadian ownership rules, we will need a Canadian-controlled partner. Similar to the U.S., Canada has allocated the 2.3 GHz band for both SDARS and mobile broadband uses, which necessitates the adoption of technical rules to protect against interference between the two uses. Canada has recently begun the process of developing such technical rules for the band. Until the technical rules are final, which in turn will allow the development of manufacturing standards for vendors to use to produce readily available commercial mobile equipment, deployment in the band for mobile services cannot occur. We are currently in discussions with Industry Canada, the spectrum regulator in Canada, about extending the deadline for the mid-term in-use demonstration. There can be no assurance that we will find a Canadian-controlled partner who will be able to provide a viable business plan and attract appropriate financing by the build out deadline. Failure to make the in-use demonstrations for each of our 87 licenses, in the absence of an extension by Industry Canada, could result in Industry Canada commencing a process to afford us the opportunity to demonstrate why the applicable licenses should not be revoked. Our use of EBS spectrum is subject to privately negotiated lease agreements. Changes in FCC rules governing such lease agreements, contractual disputes with EBS licensees, or failures by EBS licensees to comply with FCC rules could impact our use of the EBS spectrum. With few exceptions, commercial enterprises are restricted from holding licenses for EBS spectrum. Eligibility for EBS spectrum is limited to accredited educational institutions, governmental organizations engaged in the formal education of enrolled students (e.g., school districts), and nonprofit organizations whose purposes are educational. Access to EBS spectrum can only be gained by commercial enterprises through privately negotiated EBS lease agreements. FCC regulation of EBS leases, private interpretation of EBS lease terms, private contractual disputes, and failure of an EBS licensee to comply with FCC regulations all could impact our use of EBS spectrum and the value of our leased EBS spectrum. The FCC rules permit EBS licensees to enter into lease agreements with a maximum term of 30 years; lease agreements with terms longer than 15 years must contain a “right of review” by the EBS licensee every five years beginning in year 15. The right of 17 Table of Contents review must afford the EBS licensee with an opportunity to review its educational use requirements in light of changes in educational needs, technology, and other relevant factors and to obtain access to such additional services, capacity, support, and/or equipment as the parties shall agree upon in the spectrum leasing arrangement to advance the EBS licensee’s educational mission. A spectrum leasing arrangement may include any mutually agreeable terms designed to accommodate changes in the EBS licensee’s educational use requirements and the commercial lessee’s wireless broadband operations. In addition, the terms of EBS lease agreements are subject to contract interpretation and disputes could arise with EBS licensees. There can be no assurance that EBS leases will continue for the full lease term, or be extended beyond the current term, or be renewed or extended on terms that are satisfactory to us, or at all. Similarly, since we are not eligible to hold EBS licenses, we must rely on EBS licensees with whom we contract to comply with FCC rules. The failure of an EBS licensee from whom we lease spectrum to comply with the terms of their FCC authorization or FCC rules could result in termination, forfeiture or non- renewal of their authorization, which would negatively impact the amount of spectrum available for our use. We have no guarantee that the licenses we hold or lease will be renewed. The FCC generally grants wireless licenses for terms of ten or 15 years, and such licenses are subject to renewal and revocation. FCC rules require all wireless licensees to comply with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), in order to retain their licenses. For example, licensees must meet certain construction requirements, including making substantial service demonstrations, in order to retain and renew FCC licenses. Failure to comply with FCC requirements with respect to any license could result in revocation or non-renewal of a license. In general, most wireless licensees who meet their construction and/or substantial service requirements are afforded renewal expectancy; however, all FCC license renewals can be challenged in various ways, regardless of whether such challenges have any legal merit. Under FCC rules, licenses continue in effect during the pendency of timely filed renewal applications. Challenges to license renewals, while uncommon, may impact the timing of renewal grants and may impose legal costs. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that licenses we hold or lease will remain in full force and effect or be renewed. We hold 30 licenses issued by the FCC for WCS spectrum. Renewal applications for all 2.3 GHz WCS licenses, including those issued to us, were due to be filed with the FCC on July 21, 2007. We filed our WCS renewal applications on April 23, 2007. Under FCC rules, licenses continue in effect during the pendency of timely filed renewal applications. We are aware of three parties that made filings purporting to be “competing applications” in response to the renewal applications that we, AT&T, and others filed. The basis on which the third-party filings were made was the alleged failure of WCS licensees to deploy service on WCS spectrum and satisfy substantial service requirements by July 21, 2007. However, on December 1, 2006, the FCC issued a waiver order extending the substantial service deadline for WCS licensees to July 21, 2010. The FCC’s rules contain no procedures for processing “competing applications” filed for WCS spectrum and the FCC has not accepted them for filing. The FCC granted all pending WCS license renewal applications, including those that we filed in April of 2007. However, the grant of these applications was conditioned on the outcome of an ongoing FCC rulemaking proceeding regarding wireless license renewal procedures in which the FCC has proposed to dismiss all pending “competing applications”. There can be no assurance of how the FCC will ultimately treat the “competing applications” or the WCS license renewal applications. Industry Canada, Canada’s spectrum regulatory body, has similar rules and policies to those of the FCC and therefore the requirements for retention and renewal and the risks of revocation are similar to those stated above. For example, as in the U.S., licensees of Canadian spectrum must comply with construction requirements in order to retain their licenses. Our 87 Canadian licenses each have a 10 year term, 63 of which expire in November 2014 and 24 of which expire in April 2015. Interference could negatively impact our use of wireless spectrum we hold, lease or use. Under applicable FCC and equivalent international rules, users of wireless spectrum must comply with technical rules that are intended to eliminate or diminish harmful radiofrequency interference between wireless 18 Table of Contents users. Licensed spectrum is generally entitled to interference protection, subject to technical rules applicable to the radio service, while unlicensed spectrum has no interference protection rights and may be subject to interference caused by other users. Wireless devices utilizing WCS, BRS and EBS spectrum may be susceptible to interference from Satellite Digital Audio Radio Services (“SDARS”). Since 1997, the FCC has considered a proposal to permanently authorize terrestrial repeaters for SDARS operations adjacent to the C and D blocks of the WCS band. The FCC has permitted a large number of these SDARS terrestrial repeaters to operate on a special temporary authorization since 2001. Permanently authorizing SDARS repeaters adjacent to the WCS band could cause interference to WCS, BRS and EBS receivers. The extent of the interference from SDARS repeaters is unclear and will depend on the effectiveness of the new rules adopted by the FCC on May 20, 2010 (as further described below) and the operation of SDARS equipment under the new rules. Because WCS C and D block licenses are adjacent to the SDARS spectrum, the potential for interference to this spectrum is of greatest concern to us. We have a lesser magnitude concern regarding interference from SDARS to WCS A and B block licenses, and BRS and EBS licenses. The FCC adopted new technical rules on May 20, 2010 to govern WCS and SDARS operations. These rules became effective on September 1, 2010. Operation of both WCS and SDARS equipment under the new rules could result in interference to our WCS, BRS or EBS spectrum, which could impair the value of this spectrum. Increasing regulation of the tower industry may make it difficult to deploy new towers and antenna facilities, which could adversely affect the value of certain of our wireless spectrum assets. Our wireless operations are dependent upon access to towers and antenna sites which are subject to national, state and local regulatory requirements related to registration, zoning, siting, lighting, marking, environmental impacts and maintenance. Network service, enhancements to service and product launches can be delayed or made more expensive due to compliance with these regulatory requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 