Item 1A. Risk Factors We have limited relevant operating history and a history of losses. We emerged from our reorganization in April 2005 with a new business plan and have made several significant acquisitions and investments. As a result, we are at an early stage of our development and have had a limited relevant operating history and, consequently, limited historical financial information. Other than through our PacketVideo subsidiary, which we acquired in July 2005, and our IPWireless subsidiary, which we acquired in May 2007, we have never generated any material revenues and have limited commercial operations. While certain of our businesses are currently generating revenues, the revenues are not yet adequate to cover our operating expenses. In particular, we are currently unable to project when our NextWave Semiconductor products and technologies will be commercially deployed and generating significant revenue. We, along with the companies we have acquired, have a history of losses. We will continue to incur significant expenses in advance of achieving broader commercial distribution of our network equipment products and generating revenues from our semiconductor business. We are expected to realize significant operating losses for the next few years. We are therefore subject to risks typically associated with a start-up entity. If we are not able to successfully implement all key aspects of our business plan, including selling and/or licensing high volumes of our products to network operators and to device and network equipment manufacturers, we may not be able to develop a customer base sufficient to generate adequate revenues. If we are unable to successfully implement our business plan and grow our business, either as a result of the risks identified in this section or for any other reason, we may never achieve profitability, in which event our business would fail. If we fail to effectively manage growth in our business, our ability to develop and commercialize our products will be adversely affected. Our business and operations have expanded rapidly since the completion of our reorganization in April 2005. For example, from April 13, 2005 through December 29, 2007, the number of our employees increased from 50 to 1,105 as a result of organic growth and acquisitions. In addition to various immaterial acquisitions in 2007 and 2006, we acquired WiMax Telecom AG in December 2007 (following our purchase of a majority-owned share in July 2007), Websky Argentina S.A. in October 2007, IPWireless, Inc. in May 2007, GO Networks, Inc. in February 2007, SDC Secure Digital Container AG (“SDC”) in January 2007, CYGNUS Communications, Inc. in February 2006 and PacketVideo Corporation in July 2005. To support our expanded research and development activities and the anticipated growth in our NextWave Network Products and NextWave Mobile Products businesses, we must continue to successfully hire, train, motivate and retain our employees. We expect that further expansion of our operations and employee base will be necessary. Our recent acquisitions have also expanded the geographic reach of our operations to countries including Argentina, Austria, Croatia, Denmark, Finland Germany, Israel, Slovakia, South Korea, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. In order to manage the increased complexity of our expanded operations, we will need to continue to expand our management, operational and financial controls and strengthen our reporting systems and procedures. All of these measures will require significant expenditures and will demand the attention of management. Failure to fulfill any of the foregoing requirements could result in our failure to successfully manage our intended growth and development, and successfully integrate our acquired businesses, which would adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our products and achieve profitability. We have recently acquired private companies that were not subject to Sarbanes-Oxley regulations and, therefore, they may lack the internal controls of a public company, which could ultimately affect our ability to ensure compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act . We have recently acquired private companies that were not previously subject to Sarbanes Oxley regulations and accordingly were not required to establish and maintain an internal control infrastructure meeting the standards promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2007 did not include the internal controls of the recent acquisitions of SDC Secure Digital Container AG, acquired in January 2007, GO Networks, Inc., acquired in February 2007, IPWireless, Inc., acquired in May 2007, WiMax Telecom AG, acquired in July 2007, Digital World Services AG, acquired in September 2007, and Websky Argentina SA, acquired in October 2007, which are included in our 2007 consolidated financial statements and constituted $64.3 million and $97.9 million of total assets and total liabilities, respectively, as of December 29, 2007 and $24.7 million and $94.1 million of total revenues and operating loss, respectively, for the fiscal year then ended. Management did not assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting at the entities listed above because we did not have the ability to assess those controls due to the timing of the acquisitions. 30 We continue to evaluate and integrate these acquired entities into our existing internal control structure. In connection with our financial statement close process for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007 and our acquisition integration efforts, we identified several control deficiencies at a company we acquired in 2007 whose operations are primarily foreign. Specifically, there were deficiencies in information technology general controls and the availability of a sufficiently trained workforce in the accounting organization. Ernst & Young LLP, in connection with their audit for the year ended December 29, 2007, also identified control deficiencies in the revenue recognition and financial statement close processes at this same acquired company. These deficiencies could rise to the level of one or more material weaknesses once the evaluation of these controls has been completed. We are in the process of implementing a number of measures to remedy these deficiencies including the implementation of our accounting and enterprise resource planning system. We believe the new controls and procedures will address the deficiencies identified. The evaluation of these controls is expected to be included in our report on internal control over financial reporting for the year ending December 27, 2008. We plan to continue to monitor the effectiveness of the acquired company’s controls, including the operating effectiveness of the newly implemented measures and plan to take further action, as appropriate. Although our management will continue to review and evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls in light of these acquisitions, we can give you no assurance that there will be no material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the internal control structure of our acquired businesses may cause significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may need to secure significant additional capital in the future to implement our business plan and to continue to fund our research and development activities and our operating losses until we become cash flow positive and generate earnings. We may need to secure significant additional capital in the future to implement our business plan and to continue to fund our research and development activities and our operating losses until we become cash flow positive and generate earnings. Based on the operating plan for the year ended December 27, 2008 approved by our board of directors, management believes our existing cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities, the release of the $75 million of restricted cash based on the First Amendment to the Purchase Agreement for our 7% Senior Notes and cash forecasted to be generated by operations will be sufficient to meet the our estimated working capital and capital expenditures requirements through at least March 2009. Unexpected expenses and delays in development of our products and technologies, or delays in the adoption of WiMAX and other 4G technologies by national telecommunications carriers and equipment manufacturers, could adversely affect our liquidity. In order for us to achieve positive operating results and positive cash flows, we will need to achieve a substantial increase in the level of revenues and achieve sufficient gross margins to cover our ongoing operating expenses and debt service costs. If events or circumstances occur such that we do not meet our operating plan as expected, we may be required to seek additional capital and or the reduce certain discretionary spending, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our intended business objectives. 31 To augment our existing working capital resources in order to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell debt baskets and securities or additional equity securities or to obtain a credit facility. Our Senior Secured Notes and our Series A Preferred Stock prohibit our incurrence of additional indebtedness, subject to certain exceptions. The sale of equity securities or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of additional indebtedness would also result in additional debt service obligations and the requirement that we comply with operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that any additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We operate in an extremely competitive environment which could materially adversely affect our ability to win market acceptance of our products and achieve profitability. We operate in an extremely competitive market and we expect such competition to increase in the future. Our NextWave Network Products and NextWave Semiconductor businesses are developing and selling products and technologies based on WiMAX, Wi-Fi and UMTS standards and will be competing with well established, international companies that are engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of products and technologies that support the same technologies, as well as alternative wireless standards such as High Speed Downlink Packet Access (“HSDPA”) and Ultra Mobile Broadband (“UMB”). Companies that support these alternative wireless technologies include well established industry leaders such as Alcatel, Ericsson, Lucent, Motorola, Nokia, Nortel, QUALCOMM, Samsung and Siemens. Our mobile TV products, such as TDtv and MXtv, compete with alternative mobile broadcast technologies such as DVB-H and MediaFlo. These alternative technologies have already been commercially deployed by network operators in the United States and internationally and are supported by well-established industry leaders such as Alcatel, Ericsson, Nokia and QUALCOMM, all of which have significantly greater financial, technological development, marketing and other resources than we do. We also will be competing with numerous companies that are currently developing or marketing WiMAX products and technologies including Airspan, Beceem, Fujitsu, Intel, Motorola, Nortel, RunCom, Samsung, Sequans and WaveSat. Some of these companies have significantly greater financial, technical development, and marketing resources than we do, are already marketing fully-commercial WiMAX semiconductor products, and have established a significant time to market advantage. Some of these companies are also our potential customers and partners and may not be available to us if they develop competing products. Our NextWave Multimedia business products compete primarily with the internal multimedia design teams at the OEM handset manufacturers to whom we market our products and services. Importantly, these OEMs represent some of our largest customers. In addition several companies, including Flextronics/Emuzed, Hantro, Nextreaming, Philips Software, Sasken and Thin Multimedia also currently provide software products and services that directly or indirectly compete with our PacketVideo products and our TDtv solution. As the market for embedded multimedia software evolves, we anticipate that additional competitors may emerge including Apple Computer, Real Networks and OpenWave. Our ability to generate earnings will depend, in part, upon our ability to effectively compete with these competitors. The success of our businesses depends on the adoption of developing wireless broadband 4G technologies, including WiMAX and TD-CDMA. The success of our semiconductor business depends on the deployment and market acceptance of 4G wireless broadband technologies, including WiMAX and LTE. The market for 4G networks and compatible products and technologies, as well as the technologies themselves, are in an early stage of development and are continuing to evolve. In particular, there are currently no mobile WiMAX or LTE networks in commercial operation and there can be no assurance that commercial mobile WiMAX or LTE networks will prove to be commercially viable. In order for 4G technologies to gain significant market acceptance among customers, network operators and telecommunications service providers will need to deploy 4G networks. However, many of the largest wireless telecommunications providers have made significant expenditures in incumbent technologies and may choose to develop these technologies rather than utilize 4G technologies. Certification standards for 4G technologies are controlled by industry groups. Accordingly, standard setting for 4G technologies is beyond our control. If standards for 4G technologies such as WiMAX, LTE, and TD-CDMA, for example, change, the commercial viability of these technologies may be delayed or impaired and our development efforts may also be delayed or impaired or become more costly. If our 4G technologies and products do not receive industry certification, we may not be able to successfully market, license or sell our products or technologies. The development of 4G networks is also dependent on the availability of spectrum. Access to spectrum suitable for 4G networks is highly competitive. Future 4G networks may utilize multiple frequencies and this multi-spectrum approach is technologically challenging and will require the development of new software, integrated circuits and equipment, which will be time consuming and expensive and may not be successful. In order for our business to continue to grow and to become profitable, 4G technology and related services must gain acceptance among consumers, who tend to be less technically knowledgeable and more resistant to new technology or unfamiliar services. If consumers choose not to adopt 4G technologies, we will not be successful in selling 4G products and technologies and our ability to grow our business will be limited. 32 Many of our products and technologies are in the early stages of development and will require a substantial investment before they may become commercially viable. Many of our wireless broadband products and technologies are in the early stages of development and will require a substantial investment before they may become commercially viable. While we have announced the initial availability of our first generation WiMAX baseband system-on-a-chip and matched multiband RFIC, these products are not expected to generate significant revenue. We currently anticipate that our second generation WiMAX chipset, designed for high volume commercial production, will initially be available in the first half of 2008. In addition, we anticipate that our TDtv products will also become fully commercially available in 2008. However, we may not able to meet these timeframes and therefore the commercial deployment of these products could be delayed, which could adversely affect our competitive position as well as our future profitability. In addition, unexpected expenses and delays in development could adversely affect our liquidity. Some of our other planned wireless broadband products and technologies have not been tested, even on a pre-commercial basis. Even if our new products and technologies function when tested, they may not produce sufficient performance and economic benefits to justify full commercial development efforts, or to ultimately attract customers. Failure to achieve high volume sales of our semiconductors and other wireless broadband products and technologies would adversely affect our ability to achieve profitability. Our customer agreements do not contain minimum purchase requirements and can be cancelled on terms that are not beneficial to us. Our customer agreements with network providers and mobile phone and device manufacturers are not exclusive and many contain no minimum purchase requirements or flexible pricing terms. Accordingly, mobile phone and device manufacturers may effectively terminate these agreements by no longer purchasing our products or reducing the economic benefits of those arrangements. In many circumstances, we have indemnified these customers from certain claims that our products and technologies infringes third-party intellectual property rights. Our customer agreements are generally not exclusive and have a limited term of one to five years, in some cases with evergreen, or automatic renewal, provisions upon expiration of the initial term. These agreements set out the terms of our distribution relationships with the customers but generally do not obligate the customers to market or distribute any of our products or applications. In addition, in some cases customers can terminate these agreements early or at any time, without cause. We may experience difficulties in the introduction of new or enhanced products, which could result in reduced sales, unexpected expenses or delays in the launch of new or enhanced products and in certain cases, penalties under customer agreements. The development of new or enhanced wireless products and technologies is a complex and uncertain process. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent our development, introduction, commercialization or marketing of new products or product enhancements. The difficulties could result in reduced sales, unexpected expenses or delays in the launch of new or enhanced products, which may adversely affect our results or operations. In addition, in some cases we are required to provide liquidated damages and other penalty clauses in our customer contracts (for, e.g., late delivered product, failure to comply with service level agreements or defective products). If we are unable to perform in a timely manner under such customer agreements, we would face financial penalties. 33 We do not have any manufacturing capabilities and depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers to manufacture, assemble and package our products. We are currently designing and developing semiconductor products including digital baseband ASICs and multi-band RFICs. If we are successful in our design and development activities and a market for these products develops, these products will need to be manufactured. Due to the expense and complexity associated with the manufacturer of digital baseband ASICs and multi-band RFICs, we intend to depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture these products. In addition, we have engaged third-party manufacturers to develop and manufacture its products and technologies including infrastructure equipment and end-user devices. The dependence on third-parties to manufacture, assemble and package these products involves a number of risks, including: · a potential lack of capacity to meet demand; · reduced control over quality and delivery schedules; · risks of inadequate manufacturing yield or excessive costs; · difficulties in selecting and integrating subcontractors; · limited warranties in products supplied to us; · price increases; and · potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. We may not be able to establish manufacturing relationships on reasonable terms or at all. The failure to establish these relationships on a timely basis and on attractive terms could delay our ability to launch these products or reduce our revenues and profitability. Defects or errors in our products and services or in products made by our suppliers could harm our relations with our customers and expose us to liability. Similar problems related to the products of our customers or licensees could harm our business. Our mobile broadband products and technologies are inherently complex and may contain defects and errors that are detected only when the products are in use. Further, because our products and technologies serve as critical functions in our customers’ products and/or networks, such defects or errors could have a serious impact on our customers, which could damage our reputation, harm our customer relationships and expose us to liability. Defects in our products and technologies or those used by our customers or licensees, equipment failures or other difficulties could adversely affect our ability and that of our customers and licensees to ship products on a timely basis as well as customer or licensee demand for our products. Any such shipment delays or declines in demand could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. We and our customers or licensees may also experience component or software failures or defects which could require significant product recalls, reworks and/or repairs which are not covered by warranty reserves and which could consume a substantial portion of the capacity of our third-party manufacturers or those of our customers or licensees. Resolving any defect or failure related issues could consume financial and/or engineering resources that could affect future product release schedules. Additionally, a defect or failure in our products and technologies or the products of our customers or licensees could harm our reputation and/or adversely affect the growth of the market for mobile WiMAX, Wi-Fi, TD-CDMA, and other mobile broadband technologies. We may be unable to protect our own intellectual property and could become subject to claims of infringement, which could adversely affect the value of our products and technologies and harm our reputation. As a technology company, we expect to incur expenditures to create and protect our intellectual property and, possibly, to assert infringement by others of our intellectual property. Other companies or entities also may commence actions or respond to an infringement action that we initiate by seeking to establish the invalidity or unenforceability of one or more of our patents or to dispute the patentability of one or more of our pending patent applications. In the event that one or more of our patents or applications are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent or determine that the patent is not enforceable or deny issuance of the application, which could harm our competitive position. If any of our patent claims are invalidated or deemed unenforceable, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing such patent claims. Even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign jurisdictions. 34 We also expect to incur expenditures to defend against claims by other persons asserting that the technology that is used and sold by us infringes upon the right of such other persons. From time to time, we have received, and expect to continue to receive, notices from our competitors and others claiming that their proprietary technology is essential to our products and seeking the payment of a license fee. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation and/or the payment of license fees, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our ability to commercially launch our products and technologies and on our ability to achieve profitability. If any of our products were found to infringe on another company’s intellectual property rights or if we were found to have misappropriated technology, we could be required to redesign our products or license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. If we were unable to redesign our products or license such intellectual property rights used in our products, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. In any potential dispute involving other companies’ patents or other intellectual property, our customers and partners could also become the targets of litigation. Any such litigation could severely disrupt the business of our customers and partners, which in turn could hurt our relations with them and cause our revenues to decrease. Because mobile WiMAX and 3GPP based technologies such as LTE are emerging wireless technologies that are not fully developed, there is a risk that still unknown persons or companies may assert proprietary rights to the various technology components that will be necessary to operate a WiMAX or LTE -based wireless broadband network. Because mobile technologies such as WiMAX and LTE are emerging wireless technologies that are not fully developed, there may be a greater risk that persons or entities unknown to us will assert proprietary rights to technology components that are necessary to operate WiMAX or LTE-based wireless broadband networks or products. Numerous companies have submitted letters of assurance related to IEEE 802.16 and amendments or various UMTS based technologies, including TD-CDMA, stating that they may hold or control patents or patent applications, the use of which would be unavoidable to create a compliant implementation of either mandatory or optional portions of the standard. In such letters, the patent holder typically asserts that it is prepared to grant a license to its essential IP to an unrestricted number of applicants on a worldwide, non-discriminatory basis and on reasonable terms and conditions. If any companies asserting that they hold or control patents or patent applications necessary to implement the relevant technologies do not submit letters of assurance, or state in such letters that they do not expect to grant licenses, this could have an adverse effect on the implementation of mobile broadband networks utilizing such technologies as well as the sale of our mobile WiMAX or future LTE based products and technologies. In addition, we can not be certain of the validity of the patents or patent applications asserted in the letters of assurance submitted to date, or the terms of any licenses which may be demanded by the holders of such patents or patent applications. If we were required to pay substantial license fees to implement our mobile WiMAX or LTE-based products and technologies, this could adversely affect the profitability of these products and technologies. We anticipate that we will develop a patent portfolio related to our WiMAX and LTE based products and technologies. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain patents covering WiMAX or LTE based products. Litigation may be required to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to license, protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, failure to protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations. We operate or hold spectrum through various subsidiaries and joint ventures in Argentina, Austria, Canada, Croatia, Germany, Norway, Slovakia and Switzerland and have additional operations located in Brazil, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Israel, South Korea, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. We expect to continue to expand our international operations and potentially enter new international markets through acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances. For example, we recently commenced business operations in Latin America, where a new business unit headquartered in Sao Paulo, Brazil will deliver our mobile broadband and wireless technology solutions to customers throughout the Latin American region. Our activities outside the United States operate in different competitive and regulatory environments than we face in the United States, with many of our competitors having a dominant incumbent market position and/or greater operating experience in the specific geographic market. In addition, in some international markets, foreign governmental authorities may own or control the incumbent telecommunications companies operating under their jurisdiction. Established relationships between government-owned or government-controlled telecommunications companies and their traditional local telecommunications providers often limit access of third parties to these markets. In addition, owning and operating wireless spectrum in overseas jurisdictions may be subject to a changing regulatory environment. In particular, our ownership of wireless broadband spectrum in Argentina remains subject to obtaining governmental approval. We can not assure you that changes in foreign regulatory guidelines for the issuance or use of wireless licenses, foreign ownership of spectrum licenses, the adoption of wireless standards or the enforcement and licensing of intellectual property rights will not adversely impact our operating results. Due to these competitive and regulatory challenges, our activities outside the United States may require a disproportionate amount of our management and financial resources, which could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. 35 Our businesses which currently generate revenue are dependent on a limited number of customers. Our NextWave Network Products and NextWave Mobile Products businesses currently generate revenue but are dependent on a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 29, 2007, revenues from three customers accounted for 39%, 18% and 11% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. We expect that our NextWave Multimedia business will continue to generate a significant portion of its revenues through a limited number of mobile phone and device manufacturers and wireless carriers for the foreseeable future, although these amounts may vary from period-to-period. If any of these customers terminate their relationships with us, our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on a small number of individuals, and if we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, our business will be adversely affected. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our board members, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, particularly Allen Salmasi, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, William Jones, Chief Executive Officer of our NNP operating unit, and James Brailean, Chief Executive Officer of our NMP operating unit. Mr. Salmasi has been a prominent executive and investor in the technology industry for over 20 years, and the Company has benefited from his industry relationships in attracting key personnel and in implementing acquisitions and strategic plans. In addition, in order to develop and achieve commercial deployment of our mobile broadband products and technologies in competition with well-established companies such as Intel, QUALCOMM and others, we must rely on highly specialized engineering and other talent. Our key employees represent a significant asset, and the competition for these employees is intense in the wireless communications industry. We continue to anticipate significant increases in human resources, particularly in engineering resources, through 2008. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed. As a company without a significant operating history, we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in periods of poor operating performance given the significant use of incentive compensation by well-established competitors. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our personnel. We also have no covenants against competition or nonsolicitation agreements with certain of our key employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could negatively impact our ability to design, develop and commercialize our products and technology. To augment our existing working capital resources in order to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell debt securities or additional equity securities or to obtain a credit facility. Our Senior Secured Notes and our Series A Preferred Stock prohibit our incurrence of additional indebtedness, subject to certain exceptions. The sale of equity securities or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of additional indebtedness would also result in additional debt service obligations and the requirement that we comply with operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that any additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Covenants in the indenture governing our Senior Secured Notes and the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock impose operating and financial restrictions on us. Covenants in the indenture governing our Senior Secured Notes and the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions prohibit or limit our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to, among other things: · pay dividends to our stockholders; 36 · incur, or cause certain of our subsidiaries to incur, additional indebtedness; · permit liens on or conduct sales of any assets pledged as collateral; · sell significant amounts of our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; · issue shares of our common stock at less than fair market value; · repay existing indebtedness; and · engage in transactions with affiliates. A breach of any covenants contained in the indenture could result in a default under our Senior Secured Notes. If we are unable to repay or refinance those amounts, the holders of our Senior Secured Notes could proceed against the assets pledged to secure these obligations, which include a substantial portion of our spectrum assets and substantially all of our other assets. These restrictions may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, withstand downturns in our business and take advantage of business opportunities. Moreover, we may seek additional debt financing on terms that include more restrictive covenants, may require repayment on an accelerated schedule or may impose other obligations that limit our ability to grow our business, acquire needed assets, or take other actions we might otherwise consider appropriate or desirable. As of December 29, 2007, $102.2 million of our marketable securities were invested in auction rate securities (“ARS”). None of the auctions involving our ARS holdings had failed as of December 29, 2007. Through March 10, 2008, auctions for eight ARS, including certain municipalities and education auction rate securities, with principal amounts aggregating $29.5 million, were not successful due to recent weakness in the auction markets. The unsuccessful securities are District of Columbia Savrs freedom forum-A (insured by MBIA), Houston Tex Util Sys Rev Adj-Rfdg-Comb (insured by AMBAC), Education Loan Trust (insured by FFELP), Utah State Board of Rgts (insured by FFELP), Indiana Transportation Finance Authority (insured by CIFG), Indiana Secondary Market Education loans (insured by FFELP), Illinois Student Assist Comm (backed by student loan), and Kentucky Higher Education (insured by FFELP). The interest rates on these securities at the date of the failed auction range from 2.2% to 18.0%, with a weighted average rate of 6.0%. As a result, we continue to hold these securities and the issuers are required pay interest on the securities at the maximum contractual rates. We reduced our total ARS investments principally by investing in other short-term marketable securities, as individual ARS reset periods came due. Unsuccessful auctions have caused us to hold these securities beyond their scheduled auction reset dates, limiting the short-term liquidity of these investments. Such developments may result in the classification of some or all of these securities as long-term in our consolidated balance sheets in 2008 or future periods. In addition, if the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may, in the future, be required to adjust the carrying value of these investments which would result in a charge to our consolidated statement of operations. Based on current market conditions, there is no assurance that auctions on the remaining ARS in our investment portfolio will be successful. Unsuccessful auctions will cause us to hold securities beyond their next scheduled auction reset dates and limit the short-term liquidity of these investments. While these failures in the auction process have affected our ability to access these funds in the near term, we do not believe that the underlying securities or collateral have been affected. We believe that the higher reset rates on failed auctions provide sufficient incentive for the security issuers to address this lack of liquidity. However, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our remaining ARS in the near term may be limited. These developments may result in the classification of some or all of these securities as long-term in our consolidated financial statements in 2008 or future periods. In addition, if the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may, in the future, be required to adjust the carrying value of these investments through an impairment charge. 37 Risks Relating to Government Regulation Government regulation could adversely impact our development of wireless broadband products and services, our offering of products and services to consumers, and our business prospects. The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to significant change, the results and timing of which are uncertain. The FCC has jurisdiction over the grant, renewal, lease, assignment and sale of our domestic wireless licenses, the use of wireless spectrum to provide communications services, and the resolution of interference between users of various spectrum bands. Other aspects of our business, including construction and operation of our wireless systems, and the offering of communications services, are regulated by the FCC and other federal, state and local governmental authorities. States may exercise authority over such things as billing practices and consumer-related issues. Various governmental authorities could adopt regulations or take other actions that would adversely affect the value of our assets, increase our costs of doing business, and impact our business prospects. Changes in the regulation of our activities, including changes in how wireless, mobile, and IP-enabled services are regulated, changes in the allocation of available spectrum by the United States and/or exclusion or limitation of our technology or products by a government or standards body, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. Changes in legislation or regulations may affect our ability to conduct our business or reduce our profitability. Future legislative, judicial or other regulatory actions could have a negative effect on our business. Some legislation and regulations applicable to the wireless broadband business, including how IP-enabled services are regulated, are the subject of ongoing judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proceedings that could change the manner in which our industry is regulated and the manner in which we operate. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these proceedings or their potential impact on our business. If, as a result of regulatory changes, we become subject to general common carrier rules and regulations applicable to telecommunications service providers, commercial mobile radio service providers offering certain switched services on a common carrier basis, and/or enhanced service providers, including providers of interconnected VoIP service, at the federal level or in individual states, we may incur significant administrative, litigation and compliance costs, or we may have to restructure our service offerings, exit certain markets or raise the price of our services, any of which could cause our services to be less attractive to customers. In addition, future regulatory developments could increase our cost of doing business and limit our growth. We may not have complete control over our transition of BRS and EBS spectrum, which could impact compliance with FCC rules. The FCC’s rules require transition of BRS and EBS spectrum to the new band plan on a Basic Trading Area (“BTA”) basis. See “Government Regulation-BRS-EBS License Conditions.” We do not hold all of the BRS and EBS spectrum in the BTAs in which we hold spectrum. Consequently, we will need to coordinate with other BRS and EBS licensees in order to transition spectrum we hold or lease. Disagreements with other BRS or EBS licensees about how the spectrum should be transitioned may delay our efforts to transition spectrum, could result in increased costs to transition the spectrum, and could impact our efforts to comply with applicable FCC rules. The FCC rules permit us to self-transition to the reconfigured band plan if other spectrum holders in our BTAs do not timely transition their spectrum. 38 Our use of EBS spectrum is subject to privately negotiated lease agreements. Changes in FCC rules governing such lease agreements, contractual disputes with EBS licensees, or failures by EBS licensees to comply with FCC rules could impact our use of the spectrum. All commercial enterprises are restricted from holding licenses for EBS spectrum. Eligibility for EBS spectrum is limited to accredited educational institutions, governmental organizations engaged in the formal education of enrolled students (e.g., school districts), and nonprofit organizations whose purposes are educational. Access to EBS spectrum can only be gained by commercial enterprises through privately-negotiated EBS lease agreements. FCC regulation of EBS leases, private interpretation of EBS lease terms, private contractual disputes, and failure of an EBS licensee to comply with FCC regulations all could impact our use of EBS spectrum and the value of our leased EBS spectrum. The FCC rules permit EBS licensees to enter into lease agreements with a maximum term of 30 years; lease agreements with terms longer than 15 years must contain a “right of review” by the EBS licensee every five years beginning in year 15. The right of review must afford the EBS licensee with an opportunity to review its educational use requirements in light of changes in educational needs, technology, and other relevant factors and to obtain access to such additional services, capacity, support, and/or equipment as the parties shall agree upon in the spectrum leasing arrangement to advance the EBS licensee’s educational mission. A spectrum leasing arrangement may include any mutually agreeable terms designed to accommodate changes in the EBS licensee’s educational use requirements and the commercial lessee’s wireless broadband operations. In addition, the terms of EBS lease agreements are subject to contract interpretation and disputes could arise with EBS licensees. There can be no assurance that EBS leases will continue for the full lease term, or be extended beyond the current term, or be renewed or extended on terms that are satisfactory to us. Similarly, since we are not eligible to hold EBS licenses, we must rely on EBS licensees with whom we contract to comply with FCC rules. The failure of an EBS licensee from whom we lease spectrum to comply with the terms of their FCC authorization or FCC rules could result in termination, forfeiture or non-renewal of their authorization, which would negatively impact the amount of spectrum available for our use. If we do not comply with FCC build-out requirements relating to our spectrum licenses, such licenses could be subject to forfeiture. Certain build-out or “substantial service” requirements apply to our licensed wireless spectrum, which generally must be satisfied as a condition of license renewal. In particular, the renewal deadline and the substantial service build-out deadline for our WCS spectrum is July 21, 2010; for our BRS and EBS spectrum, the substantial service build-out deadline is May 1, 2011; and for our AWS spectrum, the substantial service build-out deadline is December 18, 2021. Failure to make the substantial service demonstration, without seeking and obtaining an extension from the FCC, would result in license forfeiture. We have no guarantee that the licenses we hold or lease will be renewed. The FCC generally grants wireless licenses for terms of ten or 15 years, which are subject to renewal and revocation. FCC rules require all wireless licensees to comply with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act in order to retain their licenses. For example, licensees must meet certain construction requirements, including making substantial service demonstrations, in order to retain and renew FCC licenses. Failure to comply with FCC requirements with respect to any license could result in revocation or non-renewal of a license. In general, most wireless licensees who meet their construction and/or substantial service requirements are afforded a “renewal expectancy,” however, all FCC license renewals can be challenged in various ways, regardless of whether such challenges have any legal merit. Under FCC rules, licenses continue in effect during the pendency of timely filed renewal applications. Challenges to license renewals, while uncommon, may impact the timing of renewal grants and may impose legal costs. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that licenses we hold or lease will remain in full force and effect or be renewed. We hold 30 licenses issued by the FCC for WCS spectrum. Renewal applications for all 2.3 GHz WCS licenses, including those issued to NextWave, were due to be filed with the FCC on July 21, 2007. We filed our WCS renewal applications on April 23, 2007. Under FCC rules, licenses continue in effect during the pendency of timely file renewal applications. At least three parties about which we are aware made filings purporting to be “competing applications” in response to the renewal applications filed by our Company, AT&T and perhaps others. The basis on which the third-party filings were made was the alleged failure of WCS licensees to deploy service on WCS spectrum and satisfy substantial service requirements by July 21, 2007. However, on December 1, 2006, the FCC issued a waiver order extending the substantial service deadline for WCS licensees to July 21, 2010. The FCC’s rules contain no procedures for processing “competing applications” filed for WCS spectrum and it has not made any of the third-party filings available in the public record or accepted them for filing. We have no knowledge of the status of these filings and cannot predict how the FCC may address them or how these filings may impact our renewal applications. Interference could negatively impact our use of wireless spectrum we hold, lease or use. Under applicable FCC rules, users of wireless spectrum must comply with technical rules that are intended to eliminate or diminish harmful radiofrequency interference between wireless users. Licensed spectrum is generally entitled to interference protection, subject to technical rules applicable to the radio service, while unlicensed spectrum has no interference protection rights and must accept interference caused by other users. 39 Wireless devices utilizing WCS, BRS and EBS spectrum may be susceptible to interference from Satellite Digital Audio Radio Services (“SDARS”). Since 1997, the FCC has considered a proposal to permanently authorize terrestrial repeaters for SDARS operations adjacent to the C and D blocks of the WCS band. The FCC has permitted a large number of these SDARS terrestrial repeaters to operate on a special temporary authorization since 2001. Permanently authorizing SDARS repeaters adjacent to the WCS band could cause interference to WCS, BRS and EBS receivers. The extent of the interference from SDARS repeaters is unclear and is subject to the FCC’s final resolution of pending proceedings. Because WCS C and D block licenses are adjacent to the SDARS spectrum, the potential for interference to this spectrum is of greatest concern. There is a lesser magnitude concern regarding interference from SDARS to WCS A and B block licenses, and BRS and EBS licenses. Central to the FCC’s evaluation of this proposal has been the technical specifications for the operation of such repeaters. SDARS licensees are seeking rule changes that would both unfavorably alter WCS technical operating requirements and permit all existing SDARS repeaters to continue to operate at their current operating parameters. Through their representative association, the WCS Coalition, the majority of affected WCS licensees, including NextWave, also have proposed technical rules for SDARS terrestrial repeaters and WCS operations to the FCC. Final technical rules will determine the potential interference conditions and requirements for mitigation. If SDARS repeaters result in interference to our WCS, BRS or EBS spectrum, our ability to realize value from this spectrum may be impaired. Increasing regulation of the tower industry may make it difficult to deploy new towers and antenna facilities. The FCC, together with the FAA, regulates tower marking and lighting. In addition, tower construction and deployment of antenna facilities is impacted by federal, state and local statutes addressing zoning, environmental protection and historic preservation. The FCC adopted significant changes to its rules governing historic preservation review of new tower projects, which makes it more difficult and expensive to deploy towers and antenna facilities. The FCC also is considering changes to its rules regarding when routine environmental evaluations will be required to determine compliance of antenna facilities with its radiofrequency radiation exposure limits. If adopted, these regulations could make it more difficult to deploy facilities. In addition, the FAA has proposed modifications to its rules that would impose certain notification requirements upon entities seeking to (i) construct or modify any tower or transmitting structure located within certain proximity parameters of any airport or heliport, and/or (ii) construct or modify transmission facilities using the 2500-2700 MHz radiofrequency band, which encompasses virtually all of the BRS/EBS frequency band. If adopted, these requirements could impose new administrative burdens upon use of BRS/EBS spectrum. 40 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 