Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors, in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryWe have a history of significant net losses and negative cash flow from operations. We cannot predict if or when we will become profitable and anticipate that our net losses and negative cash flow from operations will continue for at least the next year.We were organized in 2006, began commercialization of Sumavel DosePro in January 2010 and launched the commercial sale of Zohydro ER in the United States on March 3, 2014. Our business and prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by pharmaceutical companies commercializing new products.We have generated substantial net losses and negative cash flow from operations since our inception in 2006. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we incurred net losses of $80.9 million, $47.4 million and $83.9 million, respectively, our net cash used in operating activities was $44.9 million, $52.2 million and $80.5 million, respectively, and, at December 31, 2013, our accumulated deficit was $410.2 million. We expect to continue to incur net losses and negative cash flow from operating activities for at least the next year primarily as a result of the expenses incurred in connection with our efforts to commercialize Zohydro ER, the clinical development for Relday, required post-market testing for Zohydro ER, additional development activities with respect to Zohydro ER, including the development of an abuse deterrent formulation of Zohydro ER, and the cost of the sales and marketing expense associated with Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER. Our ability to generate revenues from Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER or any of our product candidates will depend on a number of factors including, in the case of Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER, the factors described in risk factors below and, in the case of our product candidates, including Relday and an abuse deterrent formulation of Zohydro ER, our ability to successfully complete clinical trials, obtain necessary regulatory approvals and negotiate arrangements with third parties to help finance the development of, and market and distribute, any product candidates that receive regulatory approval. In addition, we will be subject to the risk that the marketplace will not accept our products. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our commercialization and product development efforts, we are unable to predict the extent of our future losses or when or if we will become profitable and it is possible we will never become profitable. If we do not increase sales of Sumavel DosePro or successfully commercialize Zohydro ER or any of our product candidates that may receive regulatory approval, there would likely be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects and could result in our inability to continue operations.38Table of ContentsWe will require additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts.Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. To date, our operations have been primarily financed through the proceeds from the issuance of our common and preferred stock, including the proceeds from our initial public offering completed in November 2010, our follow-on public offerings completed in September 2011, July 2012 and November 2013, and borrowings under financing agreements. In addition, we have funded our operations through the proceeds from sales and issuances of our common stock pursuant to a controlled equity offering program that we established on March 27, 2013 with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., or Cantor, as sales agent, under which we issued 6.8 million shares of our common stock at an average stock issuance price of $1.66 per share, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $10.8 million. Our controlled equity offering sales agreement with Cantor terminated on November 16, 2013. Although it is difficult to predict future liquidity requirements, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2013, and our projected product revenues from Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER, will be sufficient to fund our operations through 2014. We will need to obtain additional funds to finance our operations beyond that point, or possibly earlier, in order to: •maintain our sales and marketing activities for Zohydro ER and Sumavel DosePro;•fund our operations and fund required post-market testing of Zohydro ER and additional development activities with respect to Zohydro ER, including the development of an abuse deterrent formulation of Zohydro ER, as well as further development of Relday and development of any other product candidate to support potential regulatory approval;•commercialize any of our product candidates or any products or product candidates that we may develop, in-license or otherwise acquire, if any such product candidates receive regulatory approval; and•qualify secondary sources for the manufacturing of Sumavel DosePro.In addition, our estimates of the amount of cash necessary to fund our business and development and commercialization activities may prove to be wrong, and we could spend our available financial resources much faster than we currently expect. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: •the commercial success of Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER; •the costs of maintaining our sales and marketing infrastructure or establishing distribution capabilities; •the timing of regulatory approval, if granted, of any product candidates and the commercial success of any approved products; •the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other product development programs for Relday and our other product candidates and any other product candidates that we may develop, in-license or acquire; •the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights associated with Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER, Relday and any of our other product candidates; •the costs and timing of completion of outsourced commercial manufacturing supply arrangements for any product candidate;•the effect of competing technological and market developments; and •the terms and timing of any additional collaborative, licensing, co-promotion or other arrangements that we may establish. In its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. A “going concern” opinion means, in general, that our independent registered public accounting firm has substantial doubt about our ability to continue our operations without continuing infusions of capital from external sources and this opinion could impair our ability to finance our operations through the sale of debt or equity securities or commercial bank loans. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue and cash flow from operations and achieve profitability, we expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, receivables financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional required funds, we may be required to significantly delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs or our commercialization efforts, or cease operating as a going concern. We also may be required to relinquish, license or otherwise dispose of rights to product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, substantial dilution to existing stockholders would result. If we raise additional funds by incurring debt financing, the terms of the debt may involve significant cash payment obligations as well as covenants and specific financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate 39Table of Contentsour business. If we are unable to maintain sufficient financial resources, including by raising additional funds when needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern.In its report accompanying our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph stating that our recurring losses from operations and lack of sufficient working capital raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. A “going concern” opinion could impair our ability to finance our operations through the sale of debt or equity securities or commercial bank loans. Our ability to continue as a going concern will depend, in large part, on our ability to generate positive cash flow from operations and obtain additional financing, neither of which is certain. If we are unable to achieve these goals, our business would be jeopardized and we may not be able to continue operations and may have to liquidate our assets and may receive less than the value at which those assets are carried on our consolidated financial statements, and it is likely that investors will lose all or a part of their investment. We are largely dependent on the commercial success of Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER, and although we have generated revenue from sales of Sumavel DosePro, we may never significantly increase these sales or become profitable.Our ability to generate revenues and become profitable will depend in large part on the commercial success of our approved products, Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER. We launched the commercial sale of Sumavel DosePro in the United States in January 2010 and Zohydro ER in the United States on March 3, 2014. The commercial success of our products depends on several factors, including our ability to:•successfully maintain and increase market demand for, and sales of, Sumavel DosePro through our sales and marketing efforts;•successfully launch and educate prescribers on safe use initiatives for Zohydro ER through our own marketing and sales activities;•obtain greater acceptance of Sumavel DosePro by physicians and patients;•create market demand for Zohydro ER through our own marketing and sales activities, and any other arrangements to promote this product that we may later establish;•establish and maintain adequate levels of coverage and reimbursement for Zohydro ER and Sumavel DosePro, respectively, from commercial health plans and government health programs, which we refer to collectively as third-party payors, particularly in light of the availability of other branded and generic competitive products;•maintain compliance with regulatory requirements;•establish and maintain agreements with wholesalers and distributors on commercially reasonable terms;•maintain commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers as necessary to meet commercial demand for Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER and manufacture commercial quantities at acceptable cost levels; and•successfully maintain intellectual property protection for Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER.We cannot be certain that our continued marketing of Sumavel DosePro will result in increased demand for, and sales of, the product. For example, we have at certain times experienced a reduction in total and new prescriptions month over month. If we are unable to successfully maintain and increase sales of Sumavel DosePro, or we are unable to successfully commercialize Zohydro ER, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to grow or sustain our business and we may never become profitable, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our efforts to successfully commercialize Zohydro ER are subject to many internal and external challenges, and if we cannot overcome these challenges in a timely manner, our future revenues and profits could be materially and adversely impacted.As Zohydro ER is a newly marketed drug, none of the members of our sales force had ever promoted Zohydro ER prior to its launch on March 3, 2014. As a result, we are required to expend significant time and resources to train our sales force to in promoting Zohydro ER with pain specialists and other customers. In addition, we also must train our sales force to ensure that a consistent and appropriate message about Zohydro ER is being delivered to potential customers. If we are unable to 40Table of Contentseffectively train our sales force and equip them with effective materials, including medical and sales literature to help them inform and educate potential customers about the benefits and risks of Zohydro ER and its proper administration, our efforts to successfully commercialize Zohydro ER could be put in jeopardy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to extensive internal efforts, the successful commercialization of Zohydro ER will require pain specialists and other customers, over whom we have no control, to decide to utilize Zohydro ER. Because Zohydro ER is a new drug with no track record of sales in the United States prior to March 3, 2014, any inability to timely supply Zohydro ER to our customers, or any unexpected side effects that develop from use of the drug, particularly early in product launch, may lead pain specialists and other customers to not accept Zohydro ER as a viable treatment alternative.If Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER, and, if approved, Relday, or any other product candidate for which we receive regulatory approval does not achieve broad market acceptance or coverage by third-party payors, the revenues that we generate will be limited.The commercial success of Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER, and, if approved, Relday, or any other product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities will depend upon the acceptance of these products by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. Coverage and reimbursement of our approved products by third-party payors are also necessary for commercial success. The degree of market acceptance of Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER and any product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval will depend on a number of factors, including:•our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy;•acceptance by physicians and patients of the product as a safe and effective treatment;•the relative convenience and ease of administration;•the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects;•limitations or warnings contained in a product’s FDA-approved labeling;•the clinical indications for which a product is approved;•in the case of Zohydro ER and product candidates that are controlled substances, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, scheduling classification;•availability and perceived advantages of alternative treatments;•any negative publicity related to our or our competitors’ products;•the effectiveness of our or any current or future collaborators’ sales, marketing and distribution strategies;•pricing and cost effectiveness;•our ability to obtain sufficient third-party payor coverage and reimbursement; and•the willingness of patients to pay out of pocket in the absence of third-party payor coverage.For example, while we believe the needle-free nature of our DosePro technology will appeal to patients, some patients may not react favorably to the subcutaneous delivery of drug products by DosePro. Our experience indicates that some patients will experience pain upon injection with the DosePro technology and/or reactions at the site of injection. Any undesirable side effects have the potential to limit market acceptance of our product candidates.In addition, products used to treat and manage pain, especially in the case of opioids like Zohydro ER, are from time to time subject to negative publicity, including political influences, illegal use, overdoses, abuse, diversion, serious injury and death. For example, in November 2013, eight members of Congress submitted a letter to Department of Health and Human Services Secretary, Kathleen Sebelius, urging reconsideration of the FDA approval of Zohydro ER, and in December 2013, a bipartisan coalition of attorneys general from 29 states and territories submitted a letter to FDA Commissioner, Margaret Hamburg, with the same request. While we do not believe that the FDA will revoke its Zohydro ER approval, and in any event, would have to provide us with notice and opportunity for a hearing first, such negative publicity could negatively affect our ability to market Zohydro ER and any opioid analgesic product candidates for which we may seek approval in the future. Moreover, as part of its own initiatives to address the safety risks associated with opioid analgesics, in September 2013, the FDA announced class-wide safety labeling changes, including required new boxed warnings, and new post-market study requirements for all ER/LA opioid analgesics intended to treat pain. Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death, the FDA determined that these drugs should be reserved for management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. In addition, the FDA required the drug companies that make these drugs to conduct further studies and clinical trials to assess the known serious risks of misuse, abuse, increased sensitivity to pain (hyperalgesia), addiction, overdose and death. The scope and design of these required additional studies and clinical trials are under development and the related cost is currently unknown, which could negatively affect our business.41Table of ContentsControlled substances are classified by the DEA as Schedule I through V substances, with Schedule I substances being prohibited for sale in the United States, Schedule II substances considered to present the highest risk of abuse and Schedule V substances being considered to present the lowest relative risk of abuse. Zohydro ER contains hydrocodone, and is regulated as a Schedule II controlled substance, and despite the strict regulations on the marketing, prescribing and dispensing of such substances, illicit use and abuse of hydrocodone is well-documented. Thus, the marketing of Zohydro ER may generate public controversy that may adversely affect market acceptance of Zohydro ER. Due to the concerns regarding abuse of opioids like Zohydro ER, we are developing an abuse deterrent formulation of Zohydro ER.Our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER and, if approved, Relday or any of our other product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities and gain broad market acceptance may require significant resources and may never be successful. If our products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, third-party payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products to become or remain profitable.Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures.Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our current and any future partners, contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from cyber-attacks, computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. For example, we have in the past experienced failures in our information systems and computer servers, which may have been the result of a cyber-attack. These failures resulted in an interruption of our normal business operations and required substantial expenditure of financial and administrative resources to remedy. We cannot be sure that similar failures will not occur in the future. System failures, accidents or security breaches can cause interruptions in our operations, and can result in a material disruption of our commercialization activities, drug development programs and our business operations. The loss of clinical trial data from completed or future clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval and post-market study compliance efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. Similarly, we rely on a large number of third parties to supply components for and manufacture our products and product candidates, warehouse and distribute Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER, and conduct clinical trials, and similar events relating to their computer systems could also have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the commercialization of Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER and development of Relday or any of our other product candidates could be delayed.Our short operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects.We commenced our operations on August 25, 2006. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, scaling up manufacturing operations with our third-party contract manufacturers, building a sales and marketing organization, conducting product development activities for our products and product candidates, in-licensing rights to Zohydro ER and Relday, commercializing Sumavel DosePro and preparing to commercialize Zohydro ER. In January 2010, we launched Sumavel DosePro and began generating revenues. We recently launched Zohydro ER on March 3, 2014. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a history of successfully developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products.We depend on wholesale pharmaceutical distributors for retail distribution of Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER, and if we lose any of our significant wholesale pharmaceutical distributors, our business could be harmed.The majority of our sales of Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER are to wholesale pharmaceutical distributors who, in turn, sell the products to pharmacies, hospitals and other customers. Three wholesale pharmaceutical distributors, McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, individually comprised 30.5%, 30.3% and 16.6%, respectively, of our total gross sales of Sumavel DosePro for the year ended December 31, 2013. Sales to these wholesale pharmaceutical distributors may result in substantial fluctuations in our results of operations from period to period and the loss of any of these wholesale pharmaceutical distributors' accounts or a material reduction in their purchases could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.In addition, these wholesale customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States. This distribution network has undergone, and may continue to undergo, significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market. Consolidation of drug wholesalers has increased, and may continue to increase, competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical products. In addition, at times, wholesaler purchases may exceed customer demand, resulting in reduced wholesaler purchases in later quarters, which may result in substantial fluctuations in our results of operations from period to 42Table of Contentsperiod. We cannot assure you that we can manage these pricing pressures or that wholesaler purchases will not decrease as a result of this potential excess buying.Our sales can be greatly affected by the inventory levels our wholesalers carry. We monitor wholesaler inventory of Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER using a combination of methods. Pursuant to distribution service agreements with our three largest wholesale customers, we receive inventory level reports. For most other wholesalers where we do not receive inventory level reports, however, our estimates of wholesaler inventories may differ significantly from actual inventory levels. Significant differences between actual and estimated inventory levels may result in excessive production (requiring us to hold substantial quantities of unsold inventory), inadequate supplies of products in distribution channels, insufficient product available at the retail level, and unexpected increases or decreases in orders from our wholesalers. These changes may cause our revenues to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and in some cases may cause our operating results for a particular quarter to be below our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If our financial results are below expectations for a particular period, the market price of our common stock may drop significantly.We face intense competition, including from generic products, and if our competitors market and/or develop treatments for migraine, pain or psychotic disorders that are marketed more effectively, approved more quickly than our product candidates or demonstrated to be safer or more effective than our products, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary therapeutics. We face competition from a number of sources, some of which may target the same indications as our products or product candidates, including large pharmaceutical companies, smaller pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions, many of which have greater financial resources, sales and marketing capabilities, including larger, well-established sales forces, manufacturing capabilities, experience in obtaining regulatory approvals for product candidates and other resources than us. Many large, well-capitalized companies offer products in the United States that compete with Sumavel DosePro. Sumavel DosePro currently competes with branded products in the triptan class such as Imitrex and Treximet marketed by GlaxoSmithKline, or GSK, as well as six other branded triptan therapies being sold by AstraZeneca plc, Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., Inc., and Pfizer Inc. In addition to those migraine therapeutics, there are other marketed non-triptan migraine therapeutics such as Cambia sold by DepoMed, Inc. In addition, Allergan, Inc., is now marketing BOTOX botulinum toxin for the treatment of chronic migraine. We also face competition from generic sumatriptan oral tablets and sumatriptan injection, now marketed in the United States as an authorized generic of the Imitrex STATdose System, or Imitrex STATdose, by Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc. In addition, in June 2010, the FDA approved Alsuma (sumatriptan injection), a needle-based autoinjector which was developed and is manufactured and marketed by Pfizer and its subsidiary, Meridian Medical Technologies. Finally, generic injectable sumatriptan in the form of vials and prefilled syringes is available from a number of pharmaceutical companies, and most recently, the FDA granted approval for a needle-based generic sumatriptan auto-injector from Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited in June 2011 and from Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd. in January 2014. Although these products may not be directly substituted for Sumavel DosePro, generic versions of sumatriptan injection and alternative autoinjector forms of sumatriptan injection may reduce the future adoption of Sumavel DosePro by third-party payors and consumers, as financial pressure to use generic products may encourage the use of a generic product over Sumavel DosePro. Sumavel DosePro is currently more expensive on a per dose basis than most of the competing branded and all of the generic triptan products for migraine, which may also limit the coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors, which could adversely affect adoption by physicians and patients. Zohydro ER competes against other marketed branded and generic pain therapeutics. Opioid therapeutics generally fall into two classes: codeines, which include oxycodones and hydrocodones, and morphines. Zohydro ER is a hydrocodone, the most commonly prescribed opioid in the United States, and Zohydro ER competes with therapeutics within both the codeine and morphine classes. These therapeutics include both Schedule II and Schedule III products (meaning that they are considered controlled substances by the DEA) being marketed by companies such as Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Mallinckrodt Inc., Pfizer, Purdue Pharma L.P., Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Limited and Actavis, Inc. On February 27, 2014, the DEA issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to reschedule hydrocodone combination products from Schedule III to Schedule II, but we cannot predict the timeframe in which the rule may become final and when, if ever, these products will be required to comply with Schedule II requirements. Zohydro ER is already a Schedule II product.In addition to already marketed therapeutics, we also face competition from product candidates that are or could be under development by many of the above-mentioned entities and others. For example, there are several products for the treatment of migraine under development by large pharmaceutical companies such as GSK, Merck & Co. and Avanir Pharmaceuticals, Inc. In addition, Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Limited intends to launch its migraine patch, Zecuity, in 2014. Zohydro ER will also compete with a significant number of opioid product candidates under development, including abuse deterrent and tamper resistant formulations of currently available opioids, novel opioids and alternative delivery forms of various opioids under 43Table of Contentsdevelopment at other pharmaceutical companies, including single-entity extended-release hydrocodone product candidates, which include abuse deterrent and tamper resistant formulations, being developed by Egalet A/S, Pfizer, Purdue Pharma L.P. and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Limited. Zohydro ER may also face competition from non-opioid product candidates including new chemical entities, as well as alternative delivery forms of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. These new opioid and non-opioid product candidates are being developed by companies such as Acura Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Collegium Pharmaceutical, Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, Elite Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Hospira Inc., Inspirion Delivery Technologies, LLC, Intellipharmaceutics International, Inc., Nektar Therapeutics, Pfizer and QRxPharma Ltd. If approved for the treatment of schizophrenia, we anticipate that Relday will compete against other marketed, branded and generic, typical and atypical antipsychotics, including both long-acting injectable and oral products. Currently marketed long-acting injectable atypical antipsychotic products include Risperdal Consta, and Invega Sustenna marketed by Johnson & Johnson, Zyprexa Relprevv marketed by Eli Lilly & Company, and Abilify Maintena (apripiprazole) marketed by Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and H. Lundbeck A/S. Currently approved and marketed oral atypical antipsychotics include Risperdal (risperidone) and Invega (paliperidone) marketed by Johnson & Johnson, generic risperidone, Zyprexa (olanzapine) marketed by Eli Lilly and Company, Seroquel (quetiapine) marketed by AstraZeneca plc, Abilify (aripiprazole) marketed by BMS/Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Geodon (ziprasidone) marketed by Pfizer, Fanapt (iloperidone) marketed by Novartis AG, Saphris (asenapine) marketed by Merck & Co., Latuda (lurasidone) marketed by Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma, and generic clozapine. Finally, in addition to these currently marketed products, we may also face competition from additional long-acting injectable product candidates that could be developed by the large companies listed above, as well and by other pharmaceutical companies such as Alkermes, Endo Health Solutions Inc., Laboratorios Farmaceuticos Rovi SA, Novartis AG, and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, each of which has announced they are developing long-acting antipsychotic product candidates. We expect Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER and, if approved, Relday and any of our other product candidates to compete on the basis of, among other things, product efficacy and safety, time to market, price, patient reimbursement by third-party payors, extent of adverse side effects and convenience of treatment procedures. One or more of our competitors may develop needle-free injectable products, products to address chronic pain or other products that compete with ours, obtain necessary approvals for such products from the FDA, or other agencies, if required, more rapidly than us or develop alternative products or therapies that are safer, more effective and/or more cost effective than any products developed by us. The competition that we will encounter with respect to Zohydro ER and any of our product candidates that receive the requisite regulatory approval and classification and are marketed will have, and the competition we are currently encountering with our Sumavel DosePro product has had and will continue to have, an effect on our product prices, market share and results of operations. We may not be able to differentiate any products that we are able to market from those of our competitors, successfully develop or introduce new products that are less costly or offer better results than those of our competitors, or offer purchasers of our products payment and other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors.In addition, competitors may seek to develop alternative formulations of our product candidates and/or alternative drug delivery technologies that address our targeted indications. The commercial opportunity for Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER and our product candidates could be significantly harmed if competitors are able to develop alternative formulations and/or drug delivery technologies outside the scope of our products. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater:•capital resources;•research and development resources and experience, including personnel and technology;•drug development, clinical trial and regulatory resources and experience•sales and marketing resources and experience;•manufacturing and distribution resources and experience;•name recognition; and•resources, experience and expertise in prosecution and enforcement of intellectual property rights.As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we are able to or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit or block us from developing or commercializing our product candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective, more useful, better tolerated, subject to fewer or less severe side effects, more widely prescribed or accepted or less costly than ours and may also be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. If we are unable to compete effectively with the marketed therapeutics of our competitors or if such competitors are successful in developing products that compete with Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER or any of our product candidates that are approved, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects may be materially adversely affected.44Table of ContentsWe have been granted three-year Hatch-Waxman exclusivity for Zohydro ER, but can offer no assurance that such exclusivity will effectively prevent or otherwise limit competition from other hydrocodone products, either generic or otherwise. In addition to patent protection, we will rely, in part, on Hatch-Waxman marketing exclusivity for the commercialization of Zohydro ER in the United States. Under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, known as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, newly approved drugs may benefit from certain statutory periods of non-patent marketing exclusivity in the United States. Exclusivity provides the holder of an approved application limited protection from new competition in the marketplace for the innovation represented by its approved drug product.A three-year period of exclusivity is available for a drug product that contains an active ingredient that has been previously approved and the application contains reports of new clinical investigations (other than bioavailability studies) conducted or sponsored by the applicant that were essential to approval of the application. Changes to an approved drug product that may qualify for this exclusivity include changes that affect the product’s active ingredient(s), strength, dosage form, route of administration, or conditions of use, so long as clinical investigations were essential to approval of the application containing those changes. The exclusivity prevents FDA from approving other applications for the same change for three years from the date of the new product’s approval. While Zohydro ER has been granted three-year Hatch-Waxman exclusivity as the first single-entity hydrocodone product approved for the treatment of chronic pain on the basis of a comprehensive Phase 3 safety and efficacy program, there can be no assurance that such exclusivity will effectively prevent or otherwise limit competition from other hydrocodone products, either generic or otherwise. Such competition by other hydrocodone products, including other 505(b)(2) applications for different conditions of use or other changes to the hydrocodone products that would not be restricted by the three-year exclusivity, could have a significantly negative impact on our future revenues from Zohydro ER.We are dependent on numerous third parties in our supply chain, all of which are currently single source suppliers, for the commercial supply of Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER and for the clinical supply of Relday, and if we experience problems with any of these suppliers, the manufacturing of Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER and Relday could be delayed. While we own most of the specialized equipment used to manufacture critical components of Sumavel DosePro, we do not own or operate manufacturing facilities and currently lack the in-house capability to manufacture Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER, Relday or any other product candidates. Our DosePro system and Sumavel DosePro are manufactured by contract manufacturers, component fabricators and secondary service providers. Aseptic fill, finish, assembly and packaging of Sumavel DosePro are performed at Patheon UK Limited, Swindon, United Kingdom, or Patheon, a specialist in the aseptic fill/finish of injectables and other sterile pharmaceutical products. In May 2012, Patheon announced plans to wind down or transfer its commercial production capacity for a number of products at this facility over a period of 24 to 36 months. We have identified alternative suppliers for these services and are currently working on a plan to transfer the manufacturing processes that are presently handled by Patheon to a new supplier in advance of the expected closure date of the Swindon, United Kingdom facility. In addition, Nypro Limited, located in Bray, Ireland, manufactures the actuator assemblies and injection molded components for our DosePro system and Nipro Glass, Germany AG (formerly MGlas AG), located in Münnerstadt, Germany, manufactures the specialized glass capsule (cartridge) that houses the sumatriptan active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, in our DosePro system. Each of these manufacturers and each other company that supplies, fabricates or manufactures any component used in our DosePro system is currently the only qualified source of their respective components. We currently rely on Dr. Reddy's Laboratories as the only supplier of sumatriptan API for use in Sumavel DosePro. An affiliate of Alkermes, Alkermes Pharma Ireland Limited, or APIL, is the exclusive manufacturer and supplier (subject to certain exceptions) for Zohydro ER. We also outsource all manufacturing and packaging of the clinical trial materials for Relday to third parties. Although we plan to qualify additional manufacturers and suppliers of some of the components used in Sumavel DosePro, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so and the current manufacturers and suppliers of these components will likely be single source suppliers to us for a significant period of time. Similarly, APIL is the exclusive manufacturer of Zohydro ER and Durect is the exclusive manufacturer of the risperidone formulation using Durect's SABER™ controlled-release technology for all Relday clinical trials through Phase 2 and has the option to supply the same formulation for Phase 3 clinical trials and, if approved, commercial production. We have restrictions on establishing a second source of supply under our agreement with APIL, and we may never be able to establish additional sources of supply for Zohydro ER or Relday's risperidone formulation. Manufacturers and suppliers are subject to regulatory requirements covering, among other things, manufacturing, testing, quality control and record keeping relating to our products and product candidates, and are subject to ongoing inspections by regulatory agencies. Failure by any of our manufacturers or suppliers to comply with applicable regulations may result in long delays and interruptions to our manufacturing supply, and increase our costs, while we seek to secure another supplier who 45Table of Contentsmeets all regulatory requirements, including obtaining regulatory approval to utilize the new manufacturer or supplier. Accordingly, the loss of any of our current third-party manufacturers or suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Reliance on third-party manufacturers and suppliers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER or our product candidates ourselves, including:•reliance on the third parties for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; •the possible breach of the manufacturing agreements by the third parties because of factors beyond our control or the insolvency of any of these third parties or other financial difficulties, labor unrest, natural disasters or other factors adversely affecting their ability to conduct their business; and•the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreements by the third parties, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us, because of our breach of the manufacturing agreement or based on their own business priorities.Production capacity to support launch and initial forecast demand for Zohydro ER is installed and has received final packaging qualification. In order to meet future anticipated growth in demand for Zohydro ER, APIL has initiated activities to qualify additional production lines and expand the manufacturing capacity for Zohydro ER. However, if APIL or our other contract manufacturers or suppliers are unable to deliver the required commercial quantities of our products and their various components, the quantities of our product candidates required for our clinical trials and, if approved, for commercial sale, on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, and we are unable to find one or more replacement manufacturers or suppliers capable of production at a substantially equivalent cost, in substantially equivalent volumes and quality, and on a timely basis, we would likely be unable to meet demand for our products and would have to delay or terminate our pre-clinical or clinical trials, and we would lose potential revenue. It may also take a significant period of time to establish an alternative source of supply for our products, product candidates and components and to have any such new source approved by the FDA or any applicable foreign regulatory authorities. Furthermore, any of the above factors could cause the delay or suspension of initiation or completion of clinical trials, regulatory submissions or required approvals of our product candidates, cause us to incur higher costs and could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates successfully.We may encounter delays in the manufacturing of Sumavel DosePro or fail to generate revenue if our supply of the components of our DosePro drug delivery system is interrupted.Our DosePro drug delivery system is sourced, manufactured and assembled by multiple third parties across different geographic locations in Europe, including the United Kingdom, Germany and Ireland. All contract manufacturers and component suppliers have been selected for their specific competencies in the manufacturing processes and materials that make up the DosePro system. The components of DosePro include the actuator subassembly, capsule subassembly, and the setting mechanism. The actuator subassembly is comprised of nine individual components which are collectively supplied by six different third-party manufacturers. The capsule subassembly that houses the sterile drug formulation sumatriptan is comprised of five different components also supplied by four third-party manufacturers. Each of these third-party manufacturers is currently the single source of their respective components. If any of these manufacturers is unable to supply its respective component for any reason, including due to violations of the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, requirements, our ability to manufacture the finished DosePro system will be adversely affected and our ability to meet the distribution requirements for any product sales of Sumavel DosePro and the resulting revenue therefrom will be negatively affected. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that any failure in any part of our supply chain will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from Sumavel DosePro, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.We rely on third parties to perform many necessary services for our commercial products, including services related to the distribution, invoicing, storage and transportation of our products, as well as the performance of services to support our safe use initiatives for Zohydro ER. We have retained third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of our products, key aspects of which are out of our direct control. For example, we rely on Cardinal Health 105, Inc. (a/k/a Specialty Pharmaceutical Services) to provide key services related to logistics, warehousing and inventory management, distribution, contract administration and chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and call center management, and, as a result, most of our inventory is stored at a single warehouse maintained by the service provider. We also rely on GENCO and Inmar Inc. to process our product returns. We place substantial reliance on these providers as well as other third-party providers that perform services for us, including entrusting our inventories of products to their care and handling. If these third-party service providers are unable to comply with applicable laws and regulations, are unable to meet expected deadlines, or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter physical damage or natural disaster at their facilities, our ability to deliver product to meet commercial demand would be significantly impaired. 46Table of ContentsIn addition, we utilize other third parties to perform various other services for us relating to drug safety monitoring and surveillance, sample accountability and regulatory monitoring, including adverse event reporting, education regarding the safe use of our products, safety database management and other product maintenance services. If the quality or accuracy of the data maintained by these service providers is insufficient, our ability to continue to market our products could be jeopardized or we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. We do not currently have the internal capacity to perform these important commercial functions, and we may not be able to maintain commercial arrangements for these services on reasonable terms.We have increased the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing and financing such growth. We recently expanded our managerial, operational and other resources in order to grow, manage and fund our existing business and support the commercialization of Zohydro ER. We expanded resources for all commercial functions to approximately 190 employees prior to launch, including sales marketing, managed markets, commercial analytics and trade teams. Our management, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this and any additional future growth, and we may be unable to fund the costs and expenses required to increase our necessary headcount and infrastructure. Our need to effectively manage our operations, any additional future growth and various projects requires that we:•manage our internal and external commercialization efforts for Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to third parties and complying with all applicable laws, rules and regulations; •manage our internal development efforts for Relday and our other product candidates effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to licensors, collaborators and other third parties and complying with all applicable laws, rules and regulations; •continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; and •attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully implement or fund these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our commercialization and development goals. In addition, our management may have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from day-to-day activities and towards managing these growth-related activities. Our future financial performance and our ability to execute on our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth and our inability to effectively manage any growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may not be able to manage our business effectively or develop our product candidates or commercialize our products.Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and key clinical development, regulatory, sales and marketing and other personnel. In May 2013, we commenced a restructuring of our workforce, resulting in a reduction in force of approximately 37%, or 55 employees, across all functional areas of our company. We took this step as part of our initiative to extend our cash runway to reach key business milestones that occurred over the last half of 2013, which included the approval of our NDA for Zohydro ER in October 2013. In June 2013, we implemented a company-wide retention program pursuant to which restricted stock units were granted to our executives and all other full time personnel. As of June 30, 2013, we employed approximately 105 full-time employees. Prior to the launch of Zohydro ER on March 3, 2014, we expanded our resources across all functional areas of the company to employ approximately 235 full-time employees. This expansion focused on increasing our commercial functions to approximately 190 professionals, including sales, marketing, managed markets, commercial analytics and trade teams. This expansion included an increase in our field sales personnel to approximately 165 employees to support broader reach to pain specialists. If we are not able to retain our expanded employee base, we may not be able to effectively manage our business or be successful in commercializing our products. We are highly dependent on the development, regulatory, commercial and financial expertise of our senior management team. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and scientific and clinical personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the areas in Southern and Northern California, where we currently operate. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. If we are not able to attract, retain and motivate necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our development and commercialization objectives, our ability to raise additional capital, our ability to implement our business strategy and our ability to maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The loss of the services of any members of our senior management team, especially our Chief Executive Officer, Roger L. Hawley, and President, Stephen J. Farr, Ph.D., could negatively impact the commercialization of Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER and could delay or prevent the development and commercialization of any of our product candidates, including Relday. Further, if we lose any members of our senior 47Table of Contentsmanagement team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. In addition to the competition for personnel, our locations in California in particular are characterized by a high cost of living. As such, we could have difficulty attracting experienced personnel to our company and may be required to expend significant financial resources in our employee recruitment and retention efforts. Although we have employment agreements with each of our executive officers, these agreements are terminable by them at will at any time with or without notice and, therefore, do not provide any assurance that we will be able to retain their services. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on the lives of our senior management team or the lives of any of our other employees. In addition, we have clinical advisors who assist us in formulating our clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development of products that may compete with ours. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects will be adversely affected.Our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation, and we cannot give any assurance that Relday or any of our other product candidates will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized.We currently are developing Relday for the treatment of the symptoms of schizophrenia as well an abuse deterrent formulation of Zohydro ER. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of drug products, among other things, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States. We are not permitted to market Relday or any of our other product candidates in the United States unless and until we receive regulatory approval from the FDA. We cannot provide any assurance that we will obtain regulatory approval for Relday or any of our other product candidates, or that any such product candidates will be successfully commercialized. Under the policies agreed to by the FDA under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, as renewed in 2012 by the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, the FDA is subject to a two-tiered system of review times for new drugs - Standard Review and Priority Review. For drugs subject to standard review that do not contain a new molecular entity, such as Relday, the FDA has a goal to complete its review of the NDA and respond to the applicant within ten months from the date of receipt of an NDA. The review process and the PDUFA target action date may be extended if the FDA requests or the NDA sponsor otherwise provides additional information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission. The FDA's review goals are subject to change, and the duration of the FDA's review may depend on the number and type of other NDAs that are submitted to the FDA around the same time period. For example, in February 2013, the FDA informed us that we were unlikely to receive an action letter for our NDA for Zohydro ER by the PDUFA target action date of March 1, 2013. Subsequently, we did not receive NDA approval until October 25, 2013. The FDA may also refer applications for novel products or products which present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. Although the FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, the matters discussed at the advisory committee meeting, and in particular any concerns regarding safety, could limit our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates subject to advisory committee review. As part of its review of an NDA, the FDA may inspect the facility or facilities where the drug is manufactured. If the FDA's evaluations of the NDA and the clinical and manufacturing procedures and facilities are favorable, the FDA will issue an action letter, which will be either an approval letter, authorizing commercial marketing of the drug for a specified indication, or a Complete Response Letter, or CRL, containing the conditions that must be met in order to secure approval of the NDA. These conditions may include deficiencies identified in connection with the FDA's evaluation of the NDA submission or the clinical and manufacturing procedures and facilities. Until any such conditions or deficiencies have been resolved, the FDA may refuse to approve the NDA. If and when those conditions have been met to the FDA's satisfaction, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process, including the ability to delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons. For example:•the FDA may not deem a product candidate safe and effective; •the FDA may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to support approval; •the FDA may require additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials; •the FDA may not approve of our third-party manufacturers' processes and facilities; or •the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. Product candidates such as Relday may not be approved even if they achieve their specified endpoints in clinical trials. The FDA may disagree with our trial design and our interpretation of data from clinical trials, or may change the requirements for approval even after it has reviewed and commented on the design for our clinical trials. The FDA may also approve a product candidate for fewer or more limited indications than we request, or may grant approval contingent on the performance 48Table of Contentsof costly post-approval clinical trials. In addition, the FDA may not approve the labeling claims that we believe are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. Approval may be contingent on a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, which limits the labeling, distribution or promotion of a drug product. For example, the approval of our NDA for Zohydro ER was associated with post-market study and REMS requirements due to the risks of misuse, abuse, addiction, overdose and death associated with the active ingredient hydrocodone. Relday and any of our other product candidates may not achieve their specified endpoints in clinical trials. We initiated a Phase 1 safety and pharmacokinetic clinical trial for Relday in July 2012 and announced positive single-dose pharmacokinetic results from this trial in January 2013. Based on the favorable safety and pharmacokinetic profile demonstrated with the 25 mg and 50 mg once-monthly doses tested in the Phase 1 trial, we extended the study to include an additional cohort of 10 patients at a 100 mg dose of the same formulation and announced positive top-line results from the extended Phase 1 clinical trial in May 2013. The positive results from this study extension position us to begin a multi-dose clinical trial, which would provide the required steady-state pharmacokinetic and safety data prior to initiating Phase 3 development studies. We plan to commence this multi-dose clinical trial in the second half of 2014. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for Relday, an abuse deterrent formulation of Zohydro ER or any other product candidates on the timeline we anticipate, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively and our ability to generate additional revenues beyond Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER may be limited. Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate acceptable levels of safety and efficacy for Relday or any of our other product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval.Relday and any of our other product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Before obtaining U.S. regulatory approval for the commercial sale of Relday or any other product candidate, we must gather substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials that demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that the product candidate is safe and effective, and similar regulatory approvals would be necessary to commercialize our product candidates in other countries. In light of widely publicized events concerning the safety risk of certain drug products, particularly opioid drug products, regulatory authorities, members of Congress, the Government Accountability Office, medical professionals and the general public have raised concerns about potential drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products, revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products and establishment of risk management programs that may, for instance, restrict distribution of drug products after approval. For example, in November 2013, eight members of Congress submitted a letter to Department of Health and Human Services Secretary, Kathleen Sebelius, urging reconsideration of the FDA approval of Zohydro ER, and in December 2013, a bipartisan coalition of attorneys general from 29 states and territories submitted a letter to FDA Commissioner, Margaret Hamburg, with the same request. We do not believe that the FDA will revoke its Zohydro ER approval, and in any event, would have to provide us with notice and opportunity for a hearing first. In addition, recent amendments to the FFDCA over the past several years have granted significant expanded authority to the FDA, much of which is aimed at improving the safety of drug products before and after approval. In particular, the FFDCA authorizes the FDA to, among other things, require post-approval studies and clinical trials, mandate changes to drug labeling to reflect new safety information and require a REMS for certain drugs, including certain currently approved drugs. Under the FFDCA, companies that violate these and other provisions of the law are subject to substantial civil monetary penalties, among other regulatory, civil and criminal penalties. The increased attention to drug safety issues may result in a more cautious approach by the FDA in its review of our clinical trials. Data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny with respect to safety, which may make the FDA or other regulatory authorities more likely to terminate clinical trials before completion, or require longer or additional clinical trials that may result in a delay or failure in obtaining approval or approval for a more limited indication than originally sought. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. If Relday or any of our other product candidates are not shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, the programs could be delayed or terminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing for Relday or pre-clinical or clinical testing for any of our other product candidates could result in increased costs to us and delay or limit our ability to pursue regulatory approval for, or generate revenues from, such product candidates. Clinical trials are very expensive, time consuming and difficult to design and implement. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing for Relday or pre-clinical or clinical testing for any of our other product candidates could significantly affect our product development costs and business plan. We initiated clinical testing for Relday in patients with schizophrenia in July 2012 and announced positive single-dose pharmacokinetic results from the Phase 1 clinical trial in 49Table of ContentsJanuary 2013. Based on the favorable safety and pharmacokinetic profile demonstrated in the Phase 1 trial, we extended the study to include an additional dose of the same formulation and announced positive top-line results in May 2013. The positive results from this study extension position us to begin a multi-dose clinical trial, which will provide the required steady-state pharmacokinetic and safety data prior to initiating Phase 3 development studies. We plan to commence this multi-dose clinical trial in the second half of 2014. We do not know whether any of our other pre-clinical or clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a number of reasons, including delays related to:•obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a clinical trial; •reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, clinical investigators and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs, clinical investigators and trial sites; •manufacturing or obtaining sufficient quantities of a product candidate for use in clinical trials; •obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to initiate and conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; •identifying, recruiting and training suitable clinical investigators; •identifying, recruiting and enrolling subjects to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including competition from other clinical trial programs for the treatment of similar indications; •retaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy, personal issues, or for any other reason they choose, or who are lost to further follow-up; •uncertainty regarding proper dosing; and •scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions. In addition, if a significant number of patients fail to stay enrolled in any of our current or future clinical trials of Relday or any of our other product candidates and such failure is not adequately accounted for in our trial design and enrollment assumptions, our clinical development program could be delayed. Clinical trials may also be delayed or repeated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results or unforeseen complications in testing. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, the IRB overseeing the clinical trial at issue, any of our clinical trial sites with respect to that site, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:•inability to design appropriate clinical trial protocols;•inability by us, our employees, our CROs or their employees to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with all applicable FDA, DEA or other regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; •inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; •discovery of serious or unexpected toxicities or side effects experienced by study participants or other unforeseen safety issues; •lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties; •lack of effectiveness of any product candidate during clinical trials; •slower than expected rates of subject recruitment and enrollment rates in clinical trials; •inability of our CROs or other third-party contractors to comply with all contractual requirements or to perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner; •inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; and •unfavorable results from on-going clinical trials and pre-clinical studies. Additionally, changes in applicable regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for Relday and our other product candidates may be harmed, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.We rely on third parties to conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates and our business could be substantially harmed.We conducted prior clinical trials under agreements with third-party CROs, and we anticipate that we may enter into agreements with third-party CROs in the future regarding Relday or any of our other product candidates. We rely heavily on these parties for the execution of our clinical and pre-clinical studies, and control only certain aspects of their activities. 50Table of ContentsNevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol and regulatory requirements. We and our CROs are required to comply with current good clinical practices, or GCP. The FDA enforces these GCP regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or our CROs fail to comply with applicable GCP regulations, the data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA and similar foreign regulators will determine that any of our clinical trials comply or complied with GCP regulations. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations, and require a large number of test subjects. Our inability to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. If any of our relationships with these third-party CROs terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. As a result, our results of operations and the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate additional revenues could be delayed. Switching or adding additional CROs can involve substantial cost and require extensive management time and focus. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work. As a result, delays may occur, which can materially impact our ability to meet our desired clinical development timelines. Though we carefully manage our relationships with our CROs, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter similar challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. The implementation of a REMS for Zohydro ER has resulted in additional regulatory requirements, including the requirement for a Medication Guide and educational requirements for prescribers and patients, which could significantly impact our ability to commercialize Zohydro ER and dramatically reduce its market potential.The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act, or FDAAA, added Section 505-1 to the FFDCA. Section 505-1 permits FDA to require a REMS for a drug product to ensure the safe use of the drug. A REMS is a strategic safety program that the FDA requires to ensure that the benefits of a drug outweigh its risks. In determining whether a REMS is necessary, the FDA will consider the size of the population likely to use the drug, the seriousness of the disease or condition to be treated, the expected benefit of the drug, the duration of treatment, the seriousness of known or potential adverse events, and whether the drug is a new molecular entity. If the FDA determines a REMS is necessary, the drug sponsor must agree to the REMS plan at the time of approval. A REMS may be required to include various elements, such as a medication guide or patient package insert, a communication plan to educate health care providers of the drug's risks, limitations on who may prescribe or dispense the drug, requirements that patients enroll in a registry or undergo certain health evaluations or other measures that the FDA deems necessary to assure the safe use of the drug. In addition, the REMS must include a timetable to assess the strategy minimally at 18 months, three years and seven years after the strategy's approval. In February 2009, the FDA informed opioid analgesic drug manufacturers that it would require a class-wide REMS for all long-acting and sustained-release opioid drug products, and as an extended release formulation of hydrocodone, Zohydro ER became subject to the ER/LA opioid REMS upon approval. Pursuant to the FFDCA, the manufacturers subject to this class-wide REMS must work together to implement the REMS as part of a single shared system to reduce the burden of the REMS on the healthcare system. The central component of the ER/LA opioid REMS program is an education program for prescribers and patients. Specifically, the REMS for these products includes a Medication Guide available for distribution to patients who are dispensed the drug, as well as a number of elements to assure safe use. These elements include training for healthcare professionals who prescribe the drug; information provided to prescribers that they can use to educate patients in the safe use, storage, and disposal of opioids; and information provided to prescribers of the existence of the REMS and the need to successfully complete the necessary training. The prescriber training required as part of the REMS is conducted by accredited, independent continuing education providers, without cost to the healthcare professionals, under unrestricted grants funded by the opioid analgesic manufacturers. Moreover, REMS assessments must be submitted to the FDA on an annual basis to assess the extent to which the elements to assure safe use are meeting the goals of the REMS and whether the goals or elements should be modified. In addition to the REMS, on September 10, 2013 the FDA announced post-marketing requirements for all ER/LA opioid analgesic NDA holders, which we are required to comply with. We are currently participating with eight other NDA holders to address these post-marketing requirements. These requirements and the REMS could significantly impact our ability to commercialize Zohydro ER and dramatically reduce its market potential.51Table of ContentsOur inability to successfully establish new partnerships with pharmaceutical companies or contract sales organizations to co-promote Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER and any additional product candidates that may receive regulatory approval may impair our ability to effectively market and sell such product candidates.Major pharmaceutical companies usually employ groups of sales representatives numbering in the thousands to call on the large number of primary care physicians. In connection with the launch of Sumavel DosePro in January 2010, we built a sales and marketing organization to promote Sumavel DosePro in the United States, including a focused sales force, which as of December 31, 2013 was comprised of approximately 54 field sales personnel, primarily targeting neurologists and other prescribers of migraine medications, including headache clinics and headache specialists. In June 2012, in order to maintain and expand the market opportunity for Sumavel DosePro into the broader primary care physician audiences, we entered into a co-exclusive (with us) co-promotion agreement with Mallinckrodt under which in August 2012 Mallinckrodt began promoting Sumavel DosePro to its customer base of prescribers. The co-promotion agreement with Mallinckrodt terminated at the end of January 2014. Although we expanded our commercial team prior to the launch of Zohydro ER in March 2014, including the expansion of our field sales personnel to approximately 165 employees, we may seek another co-promotion partner for Sumavel DosePro in the future. Further, if combination hydrocodone products are rescheduled from Schedule III to Schedule II, we may seek a co-promotion or other partnering opportunity for Zohydro ER, or may further expand our sales force.In addition, in order to promote any product candidates that receive regulatory approval, we may need to further expand our sales and marketing personnel and commercial infrastructure and/or establish partnerships with pharmaceutical companies or contract sales organizations to co-promote such additional products. We currently, and on an ongoing basis will have to, compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel. We also face competition in our search for collaborators and potential co-promoters. To the extent we rely on additional third parties to co-promote or otherwise commercialize any products and/or product candidates that may receive regulatory approval, we are likely to receive less revenue than if we commercialized these products ourselves. Further, by entering into strategic partnerships or similar arrangements, we may rely in part on such third parties for financial and commercialization resources. Even if we are able to identify suitable partners to assist in the commercialization of our products and/or product candidates, they may be unable to devote the resources necessary to realize the full commercial potential of our products. Further, we may lack the financial and managerial resources to maintain and potentially increase the size of our sales and marketing organization to adequately promote and commercialize Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER and any product candidates that may be approved. Any increase in our sales force will result in an increase in our expenses, which could be significant before we generate revenues from any newly approved product candidate. Even though we were able to recently expand our sales and marketing personnel, and may be successful in establishing future partnership arrangements, such sales force and marketing teams may not be successful in commercializing our products, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue for such products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.Our inability to successfully acquire, develop and market additional product candidates or approved products would impair our ability to grow our business. We intend to in-license, acquire, develop and/or market additional products and product candidates in the areas of pain and central nervous system, or CNS, disorders. Because our internal research and development capabilities are limited, we may be dependent upon other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic scientists and other researchers to sell or license products or technology to us. The success of this strategy depends partly upon our ability to identify and select promising pharmaceutical product candidates and products, negotiate licensing or acquisition agreements with their current owners and finance these arrangements. The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquisition of a product candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing, sales and other resources, may compete with us for the license or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. 52Table of ContentsFurther, any product candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including pre-clinical or clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that any products that we develop or approved products that we acquire will be manufactured or sold profitably or achieve market acceptance. Additionally, as part of our growth strategy, we intend to seek to expand our product pipeline by exploring acquisition or in-licensing opportunities of proven drugs that can be paired with our DosePro needle-free drug delivery system. If we are not able to identify additional drug compounds that can be delivered via the current version of our DosePro technology, or if we are unable to successfully develop higher dose versions of this technology, our ability to develop additional product candidates and grow our business would be adversely affected. We and Battelle Memorial Institute, or Battelle, our technology co-marketing partner, are also seeking opportunities to out-license the DosePro technology to partners seeking to enhance, differentiate, or extend the life-cycle of their injectable products. However, there can be no assurance that our or Battelle's efforts to secure such a partnership will be successful. If we are unable to secure partnerships with companies that have compounds that can be delivered via the current version of our DosePro technology, or if we are unable to successfully develop higher dose versions of this technology, we will not be able to generate revenues from out-licensing our DosePro technology. If we are unable to license or acquire additional product candidates or approved products and successfully develop and commercialize them, or if we are otherwise unable to pair our DosePro delivery system with other drugs or out-license the DosePro technology to others, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We may engage in strategic transactions that could impact our liquidity, increase our expenses and present significant distractions to our management.From time to time we may consider strategic transactions, such as acquisitions of companies, asset purchases and out-licensing or in-licensing of products, product candidates or technologies. Additional potential transactions that we may consider include a variety of different business arrangements, including spin-offs, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, restructurings, divestitures, business combinations and investments. Any such transaction may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges, may increase our near and long-term expenditures and may pose significant integration challenges or disrupt our management or business, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. For example, these transactions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including:•exposure to unknown liabilities;•disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention in order to develop acquired products, product candidates or technologies;•incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of equity securities to pay for acquisitions;•higher than expected acquisition and integration costs;•write-downs of assets or goodwill or impairment charges;•increased amortization expenses;•difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel;•impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and•inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses.Accordingly, although there can be no assurance that we will undertake or successfully complete any transactions of the nature described above, any transactions that we do complete could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. If we are unable to further amend our license agreement with Alkermes or obtain its consent, we will be unable to license, market and sell an abuse deterrent formulation of Zohydro ER that makes use of another party's formulation technology.We entered into a development and option agreement with Altus Formulation Inc., or Altus, to develop abuse deterrent formulations of hydrocodone. Pursuant to the agreement, we have been granted an option to obtain an exclusive, royalty-bearing license, with the right to sublicense, to certain Altus intellectual property rights to make, have made, import, use, sell, have sold, offer for sale and import an abuse deterrent formulation of hydrocodone for the treatment or relief of pain in the United States. However, during the term of our license agreement with Alkermes for Zohydro ER, we are precluded from licensing, marketing or selling in the United States any oral controlled release capsule or tablet formulation whose sole active 53Table of Contentsingredient is hydrocodone, other than Zohydro ER. Accordingly, we will need Alkermes’ cooperation in order to exercise our option with Altus and ultimately commercialize an abuse deterrent formulation of hydrocodone. If we are unable to obtain this consent or otherwise amend our license agreement with Alkermes, we will not be able to license or commercialize any abuse deterrent formulation under development with Altus or any other abuse deterrent formulation of hydrocodone, unless we pursue the development or commercialization of such abuse deterrent formulation with Alkermes. We believe it is in the mutual interest of Alkermes and our company to proceed with the abuse deterrent formulation from Altus and that we can ultimately come to an agreement with Alkermes to do so. However, we can provide no assurance that we will reach such an agreement. Our inability to obtain Alkermes’ consent could have a negative impact on the long term opportunity for Zohydro ER, and even if we are successful, we may need to compensate Alkermes for its consent, which may include increased compensation in the form of royalties or other payments and other concessions compared to our existing license terms.If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate levels of coverage and reimbursement for Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER, or any of our other product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval on reasonable pricing terms, their commercial success may be severely hindered.Successful sales of our products depend on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors. Patients who are prescribed medicine for the treatment of their conditions generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the costs associated with their prescription drugs. Adequate coverage and reimbursement from governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and commercial payors are critical to new product acceptance. Coverage decisions may depend upon clinical and economic standards that disfavor new drug products when more established or lower cost therapeutic alternatives are already available or subsequently become available. Assuming coverage is approved, the resulting reimbursement payment rates might not be adequate or may require co-payments that patients find unacceptably high. Patients are unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our products. In addition, the market for our products will depend significantly on access to third-party payors' drug formularies, or lists of medications for which third-party payors provide coverage and reimbursement. The industry competition to be included in such formularies often leads to downward pricing pressures on pharmaceutical companies. Also, third-party payors may refuse to include a particular branded drug in their formularies or otherwise restrict patient access to a branded drug when a less costly generic equivalent or other alternative is available. In addition, regional healthcare authorities and individual hospitals are increasingly using competitive bidding procedures to determine what pharmaceutical products and which suppliers will be included in their prescription drug and other healthcare programs. This can reduce demand for our products or put pressure on our product pricing, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Third-party payors, whether foreign or domestic, or governmental or commercial, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs. In addition, in the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for drug products exists among third-party payors. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement for drug products can differ significantly from payor to payor. Further, we believe that future coverage and reimbursement will likely be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Third-party coverage and reimbursement for Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER or any of our product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval may not be available or adequate in either the United States or international markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability if our insurance coverage for those claims is inadequate.The commercial use of our products and clinical use of our products and product candidates expose us to the risk of product liability claims. This risk exists even if a product is approved for commercial sale by the FDA and manufactured in facilities regulated by the FDA, such as the case with Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER, or an applicable foreign regulatory authority. Our products and product candidates are designed to affect important bodily functions and processes. Any side effects, manufacturing defects, misuse or abuse associated with Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER or our product candidates could result in injury to a patient or even death. For example, because our DosePro technology is designed to be self-administered by patients, it is possible that a patient could fail to follow instructions and as a result apply a dose in a manner that results in injury. In addition, Zohydro ER is an opioid pain reliever that contains hydrocodone, which is a regulated “controlled substance” under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970, or CSA, and could result in harm to patients relating to its potential for abuse. In addition, a liability claim may be brought against us even if our products or product candidates merely appear to have caused an injury. 54Table of ContentsProduct liability claims may be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our products or product candidates, among others. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims we will incur substantial liabilities. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:•the inability to commercialize our products or product candidates;•decreased demand for our products or, if approved, product candidates;•impairment of our business reputation;•product recall or withdrawal from the market;•withdrawal of clinical trial participants;•costs of related litigation;•distraction of management’s attention from our primary business;•substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; or•loss of revenues.We have obtained product liability insurance coverage for commercial product sales and clinical trials with a $10 million per occurrence coverage limit and a $15 million annual aggregate coverage limit. In connection with the launch of Zohydro ER, the annual aggregate coverage limit increased to $20 million beginning in March 2014. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our product liability related expenses or losses and may not cover us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost, in sufficient amounts or upon adequate terms to protect us against losses due to product liability. If we determine that it is prudent to increase our product liability coverage based on sales of Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER, approval of Relday or otherwise, we may be unable to obtain this increased product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Large judgments have been awarded in class action or individual lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects, including side effects that are less severe than those of Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER and our product candidates. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials and we and our third-party manufacturers and suppliers must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business.Our research and development activities and our third-party manufacturers' and suppliers' activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials owned by us, including the components of our product and product candidates and other hazardous compounds. We and our manufacturers and suppliers are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. In some cases, these hazardous materials and various wastes resulting from their use are stored at our and our manufacturers' facilities pending use and disposal. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination, which could cause an interruption of our commercialization efforts, research and development efforts and business operations, injury to our employees and others, environmental damage resulting in costly clean-up and liabilities under applicable laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by our third-party manufacturers for handling and disposing of these materials generally comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that this is the case or eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In such an event, we may be held liable for any resulting damages and such liability could exceed our resources. We do not currently carry biological or hazardous waste insurance coverage. In connection with the reporting of our financial condition and results of operations, we are required to make estimates and judgments which involve uncertainties, and any significant differences between our estimates and actual results could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In particular, as part of our revenue recognition policy, our estimates of product returns, rebates and chargebacks require our most subjective and complex judgment due to the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Any significant differences between our actual results and our estimates and assumptions could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 55Table of ContentsChanges in accounting standards and their interpretations could adversely affect our operating results.GAAP are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, and various other bodies that promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. These principles and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change.Fluctuations in the value of the Euro or U.K. pound sterling could negatively impact our results of operations and increase our costs.Payments to our material suppliers and contract manufacturers are denominated in the Euro and U.K. pound sterling. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and to date all of the revenues generated by sales of Sumavel DosePro have been in U.S. dollars. For the year ended December 31, 2013, $18.9 million (based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2013) of our materials, contract manufacturing costs and other manufacturing-related costs were denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk, and our results of operations may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Euro or U.K. pound sterling. A significant appreciation in the Euro or U.K. pound sterling relative to the U.S. dollar will result in higher expenses and cause increases in our net losses. Likewise, to the extent that we generate any revenues denominated in foreign currencies, or become required to make payments in other foreign currencies, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and those foreign currencies could also negatively impact our results of operations. We currently have not entered into any foreign currency hedging contracts to reduce the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and foreign currency hedging is inherently risky and may result in unanticipated losses.Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital RequirementsWe have never generated net income or positive cash flow from operations and are dependent upon external sources of financing to fund our business and development.We launched our first approved product, Sumavel DosePro, in January 2010 and our recently approved product, Zohydro ER, on March 3, 2014. Given on our limited sales history for Sumavel DosePro and our lack of sales history for Zohydro ER, we may not accurately predict future sales, and we may never be able to significantly increase sales. We have financed our operations primarily through the proceeds from the issuance of our common and preferred stock, including the proceeds from our initial public offering completed in November 2010, our follow-on public offerings completed in September 2011, July 2012 and November 2013, our controlled equity offering program, and debt, and have incurred losses and negative cash flow from operations in each year since our inception. Our net loss was $80.9 million in 2013, $47.4 million in 2012 and $83.9 million in 2011, and our cash used in operating activities was $44.9 million in 2013, $52.2 million in 2012 and $80.5 million in 2011. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $410.2 million. These losses and negative cash flow from operations have had a material adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital. Further, despite the revenues from Sumavel DosePro and any future revenue from Zohydro ER, we expect our losses to continue for at least the next year primarily as a result of the expenses incurred in connection with our efforts to commercialize Zohydro ER, the additional clinical development of Relday, the required post-market testing for Zohydro ER, additional activities with respect to Zohydro ER, including the development of an abuse deterrent formulation of Zohydro ER and the cost of the sales and marketing expense associated with Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER. As a result, we may remain dependent upon external sources of financing to finance our business and the development and commercialization of our approved products and product candidates. To the extent we need to raise additional capital in the future, we cannot ensure that debt or equity financing will be available to us in amounts, at times or on terms that will be acceptable to us, or at all. Any shortfall in our cash resources could require that we delay or abandon certain development and commercialization activities and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.56Table of ContentsOur level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations.As of December 31, 2013, we had $30.0 million of outstanding indebtedness under a financing agreement with Healthcare Royalty Partners, or the Healthcare Royalty financing agreement. Our outstanding debt and related debt service obligations could have important adverse consequences to us, including: •heightening our vulnerability to downturns in our business or our industry or the general economy and restricting us from making improvements or acquisitions, or exploring business opportunities;•requiring a significant amount of interest payments and fixed payments on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our available cash to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;•limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have greater capital resources; and•subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments, the failure with which to comply could result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument that allows the lender to demand immediate repayment of the related debt.If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay product development, sales and marketing, capital and other expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our debt instrument with Healthcare Royalty contains a number of provisions which, if violated, could result in the immediate acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. Pursuant to the terms of our $30.0 million Healthcare Royalty financing agreement, we are required to make payments to Healthcare Royalty of $10.0 million on each of January 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, as well as fixed percentages of amounts received (in the case of co-promotion revenues and license fees) or recorded (in the case of net products sales). Our obligations under the Healthcare Royalty financing agreement are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our personal property (including, among other things, accounts receivable, equipment, inventory, contract rights or rights to payment of money, license agreements, general intangibles, including all intellectual property, and cash), to the extent necessary or used to commercialize our products. The security interest will be extinguished once the aggregate payments made by us to Healthcare Royalty equals $75.0 million. If we are unable to repay the indebtedness or other amounts when due, whether at maturity, upon termination or if declared due and payable by the lender following a default, Healthcare Royalty generally has the right to seize and sell the collateral securing the indebtedness, and other amounts owing to it thereunder. We have the option to terminate the Healthcare Royalty financing agreement at our election prior to the termination date in connection with a change of control of our company, as defined in the Healthcare Royalty financing agreement, upon the payment of a base amount of $52.5 million, or, if higher, an amount that generates a 19% internal rate of return on the borrowed amount as of the date of prepayment, in each case reduced by the interest and fixed payments received by Healthcare Royalty up to the date of such prepayment. In addition, Healthcare Royalty has the option to terminate the Healthcare Royalty financing agreement at its election in connection with a change of control of our company, as defined in the Healthcare Royalty financing agreement, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets (which includes the sale, transfer, assignment or licensing of our rights in the United States to either Sumavel DosePro or Zohydro ER), or an event of default (which includes the occurrence of a bankruptcy event or other material adverse change in our business), as defined in the Healthcare Royalty financing agreement, occurring thereunder. Upon such a termination by Healthcare Royalty prior to the maturity date specified in the Healthcare Royalty financing agreement, we are obligated to make a payment of a base amount of $45.0 million, or, if higher, an amount that generates a 17% internal rate of return on the borrowed amount as of the date of prepayment, in each case reduced by the interests and fixed payments received by Healthcare Royalty up to the date of prepayment. If we were required to accelerate the payment of these amounts upon a default, we would be required to find an alternate source of capital from which to draw funds and there can be no assurances that we would be able to do so on terms acceptable to us, or at all. There can be no assurance that we will not breach the terms of, or that an event of default or termination event will not occur under, our Healthcare Royalty financing agreement and, if a breach or event of default or termination event occurs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary waivers or amendments from Healthcare Royalty or refinance the related indebtedness or other amounts due and payable on terms we find acceptable, or at all. 57Table of ContentsAs a result, any failure to pay our debt service obligations when due, any breach or default of our obligations under our Healthcare Royalty financing agreement, or any other event that allows Healthcare Royalty to demand immediate repayment of borrowings or termination payments, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Furthermore, the arrangement under the Healthcare Royalty financing agreement may make us significantly less attractive to potential acquirers, and in the event that we exercised our change of control pay-off option in order to carry out a change of control, the payment of such funds out of our available cash or acquisition proceeds would reduce acquisition proceeds for our stockholders. Our results of operations and liquidity needs could be materially negatively affected by market fluctuations and economic downturn.Our results of operations and liquidity could be materially negatively affected by economic conditions generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. Domestic and international equity and debt markets have experienced and may continue to experience heightened volatility and turmoil based on domestic and international economic conditions and concerns. In the event these economic conditions and concerns continue or worsen and the markets continue to remain volatile, our results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected by those factors in many ways, including making it more difficult for us to raise funds if necessary, and our stock price may decline. In addition, we maintain significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents at one or more financial institutions that are not federally insured. If economic instability continues, we cannot provide assurance that we will not experience losses on these investments.Raising additional funds by issuing securities may cause dilution to existing stockholders and raising funds through lending and licensing arrangements may restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights.We may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, receivables or royalty financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities or convertible debt, your ownership interest in us will be diluted. Debt financing typically contains covenants that restrict operating activities. Our obligations under the Healthcare Royalty financing agreement are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our personal property (including, among other things, accounts receivable, equipment, inventory, contract rights or rights to payment of money, license agreements, general intangibles, including all intellectual property, and cash). The security interest will be extinguished once the aggregate payments made by us to Healthcare Royalty equals $75.0 million. The Healthcare Royalty financing agreement contains provisions which allows Healthcare Royalty to accelerate the debt and seize and sell the collateral if, among other things, we fail to pay interest payments and fixed payments when due or breach our obligations under the agreement or if a material adverse change in our business or any other event of default occurs. Any future debt financing we enter into may involve more onerous covenants that restrict our operations, may be secured by some or all of our assets, and will likely allow the lenders to accelerate the debt and seize and sell any collateral following a default. Our obligations under our outstanding Healthcare Royalty financing agreement or any future debt financing will need to be repaid, which creates additional financial risk for our company, particularly if our business or prevailing financial market conditions are not conducive to paying-off or refinancing our outstanding debt obligations. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our current product or product candidates or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, our ability to achieve profitability or to respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited and we may be required to delay, significantly curtail or eliminate the commercialization and development of our product or product candidates. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss and research and development income tax credit carryforwards may be limited.Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the IRC, substantial changes in our ownership may limit the amount of net operating loss and research and development income tax credit carryforwards (collectively, tax attributes) that could be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income, if any. Specifically, this limitation may arise in the event of a cumulative change in ownership of our company of more than 50% within a three-year period as determined under the IRC, which we refer to as an ownership change. Any such annual limitation may significantly reduce the utilization of these tax attributes before they expire. Prior to our initial public offering in November 2010, we performed an IRC Section 382 and 383 analysis and determined that we had one ownership change, which occurred in August 2006 upon the issuance of convertible preferred stock. We performed an additional IRC Section 382 and 383 analysis upon the issuance of common stock in our follow-on public offering in September 2011, and together with the issuance of common stock in our initial public offering and certain other transactions involving our common stock, resulted in an additional ownership change. As a result of these ownership changes, our ability to use our then existing tax attributes to offset future taxable income, if any, 58Table of Contentswas limited. We are currently in the process of completing a Section 382 and 383 study to determine the impact that ownership changes during the year ended December 31, 2013 have had on our carryforwards and expect to complete the analysis within the next twelve months. As a result of this analysis, we may have an adjustment in the net operating losses that are recorded at December 31, 2013. In addition, any future equity financing transactions, private placements and other transactions that occur within the specified three-year period may trigger additional ownership changes, which could further limit our use of such tax attributes. Any such limitations, whether as the result of prior or future offerings of our common stock or sales of common stock by our existing stockholders, could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in future years. Risks Related to Regulation of our Product and Product CandidatesOur currently approved products, Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER, are, and any of our other product candidates that receive regulatory approval will be, subject to ongoing and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize such products.Even after we achieve U.S. regulatory approval for a product, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or on the conditions of approval. For example, a product's approval may contain requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies and surveillance, including Phase 4 clinical trials, to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product, or the implementation of a REMS program. The Zohydro ER approval requires us to conduct post-marketing studies and implement the ER/LA opioid class-wide REMS with respect to our product. We are also subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review with respect to the manufacturing, processing, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for our product. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, establishment registration and drug listing, as well as continued compliance with cGMP for our marketed and investigational products, and with GCP and good laboratory practices, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA for all of our products in clinical and pre-clinical development, and for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. To the extent that a product is approved for sale in other countries, we may be subject to similar restrictions and requirements imposed by laws and government regulators in those countries. In the case of Zohydro ER and any product candidates containing controlled substances, we and our contract manufacturers will also be subject to ongoing DEA regulatory obligations, including, among other things, annual registration renewal, security, recordkeeping, theft and loss reporting, periodic inspection and annual quota allotments for the raw material for commercial production of our products. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMP regulations, QSR requirements for medical device components or similar requirements, if applicable. If we or a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where, or processes by which, the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, the manufacturer or us, including requiring product recall, notice to physicians, withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. In addition, because all of our contract manufacturers for Sumavel DosePro are located outside the United States, they may also be subject to foreign laws and regulations governing the manufacture of drugs and devices, and any failure by them to comply with those laws and regulations may delay or interrupt supplies of our product. If we, our products or product candidates or the manufacturing facilities for our products or product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may:•impose restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of a product, suspend or withdraw product approvals or revoke necessary licenses;•issue warning letters, show cause notices or untitled letters describing alleged violations, which may be publicly available;•commence criminal investigations and prosecutions;•impose injunctions, suspensions or revocations of necessary approvals or other licenses;•impose fines or other civil or criminal penalties;•suspend any ongoing clinical trials;•deny or reduce quota allotments for the raw material for commercial production of our controlled substance products;•delay or refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us;•refuse to permit drugs or precursor chemicals to be imported or exported to or from the United States;•suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or•seize or detain products or require us to initiate a product recall.59Table of ContentsIn addition, our product labeling, advertising and promotion are subject to regulatory requirements and continuing regulatory review. The FDA strictly regulates the promotional claims that may be made about prescription drug products. In particular, a drug may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA as reflected in the product's approved labeling, although the FDA does not regulate the prescribing practices of physicians. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including substantial monetary penalties and criminal prosecution. The FDA's regulations, policies or guidance may change and new or additional statutes or government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates or further restrict or regulate post-approval activities. For example, the FDASIA requires the FDA to issue new guidance describing its policy regarding internet and social media promotion of regulated medical products, and the FDA may soon specify new restrictions on this type of promotion. In January 2014, the FDA released draft guidance on how drug companies can fulfill their regulatory requirements for postmarketing submission of interactive promotional media, and though the guidance provided insight into how the FDA views a company's responsibility for certain types of social media promotion, there remains a substantial amount of uncertainty. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from pending or future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to achieve and maintain regulatory compliance, we may not be permitted to market our drugs, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and achieve or maintain profitability. Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER, Relday and our other product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other unexpected properties that could result in post-approval regulatory action.If we or others identify undesirable side effects, or other previously unknown problems, caused by our products, other products or our product candidates with the same or related active ingredients, after obtaining U.S. regulatory approval, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:•regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product;•regulatory authorities may require us to recall the product;•regulatory authorities may require the addition of warnings in the product label or narrowing of the indication in the product label;•we may be required to create a Medication Guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients;•we may be required to change the way the product is administered or modify the product in some other way;•the FDA may require us to conduct additional clinical trials or costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product;•we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and•our reputation may suffer.The most common treatment-emergent adverse reactions (reported by at least 5% of patients) for sumatriptan injection as described in the Sumavel DosePro Prescribing Information summarizing two large placebo-controlled clinical trials were injection site reaction (59%), atypical sensations (42%), dizziness (12%), flushing (7%), chest discomfort (5%), weakness (5%), and neck pain/stiffness (5%).The incidence of adverse events was 33.7% and 28.8% in the open label titration and double blind treatment periods of our Phase 3 efficacy trial for Zohydro ER, respectively. Overall, the most commonly reported adverse events (>2%) in this trial were constipation, nausea, somnolence, vomiting, diarrhea, insomnia, fatigue, headache, dizziness and dry mouth. These are typical adverse events associated with chronic opioid therapy. Any of the above events resulting from undesirable side effects or other previously unknown problems could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product and could substantially increase the costs of commercializing our product candidates. Our development strategy for Relday depends upon the FDA’s prior findings of safety and effectiveness of risperidone based on data not developed by us, but which the FDA may rely upon in reviewing any future NDA.The Hatch-Waxman Amendments added Section 505(b)(2) to the FFDCA. Section 505(b)(2) permits the filing of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. Under this statutory provision, the FDA may rely, for purposes of approving an NDA, on safety and effectiveness data not developed by the filer of the NDA. Similar to Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER, we plan to submit an NDA for Relday under Section 505(b)(2), and as such, the NDA will rely, in part, on the 60Table of ContentsFDA's previous findings of safety and effectiveness for risperidone. Even though we may be able to take advantage of Section 505(b)(2) to support potential U.S. approval for Relday, the FDA may require us, and did require us with respect to Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER, to perform additional studies or measurements to support approval. In addition, the FDA's interpretation and use of Section 505(b)(2) has been controversial and has previously been challenged in court, but without a definitive ruling on the propriety of the FDA's approach. Future challenges, including a direct challenge to the approval of our products and product candidates, may be possible and, if successful, could limit or eliminate our ability to rely on the Section 505(b)(2) pathway for the approval of Relday and our other product candidates. Such a result could require us to conduct additional testing and costly clinical trials, which could substantially delay or prevent the approval and launch of Relday and our other product candidates. Zohydro ER is a controlled substance subject to DEA regulations and failure to comply with these regulations, or the cost of compliance with these regulations, may adversely affect our business.Zohydro ER contains hydrocodone, a regulated “controlled substance” under the CSA, which establishes, among other things, certain registration, production quotas, security, recordkeeping, reporting, import, export and other requirements administered by the DEA. The DEA regulates controlled substances as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances. Schedule I substances by definition have no established medicinal use and may not be marketed or sold in the United States. A pharmaceutical product may be listed as Schedule II, III, IV or V, with Schedule II substances considered to present the highest risk of abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest relative risk of abuse among such substances. Zohydro ER, because it is a single-entity hydrocodone product, is regulated by the DEA as a Schedule II controlled substance under the CSA. All Schedule II substance prescriptions, such as prescriptions for Zohydro ER, must be in writing and signed by a physician, physically presented to a pharmacist and may not be refilled without a new prescription. The manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use, among other things, of controlled substances that are pharmaceutical products are subject to a high degree of regulation, including security, record-keeping and reporting obligations enforced by the DEA. Our failure to comply with these requirements could result in the loss of our ability to supply Zohydro ER, significant restrictions on Zohydro ER, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. The DEA, and some states, also conduct periodic inspections of registered establishments that handle controlled substances. Facilities that conduct research, manufacture, store, distribute, import or export controlled substances must be registered to perform these activities and have the security, control and inventory mechanisms required by the DEA to prevent drug loss and diversion. Failure to maintain compliance, particularly non-compliance resulting in loss or diversion, can result in regulatory action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations, or initiate proceedings to revoke those registrations. In certain circumstances, violations could lead to criminal proceedings. Individual states also have controlled substances laws. Though state controlled substances laws often mirror federal law, because the states are separate jurisdictions, they may separately schedule drugs, as well. While some states automatically schedule a drug when the DEA does so, in other states there has to be rulemaking or a legislative action. State scheduling may delay commercial sale of any controlled substance drug product for which we obtain federal regulatory approval and adverse scheduling could have a material adverse effect on the commercial attractiveness of such product. We or our partners must also obtain separate state registrations in order to be able to obtain, handle, and distribute controlled substances for clinical trials or commercial sale, and failure to meet applicable regulatory requirements could lead to enforcement and sanctions from the states in addition to those from the DEA or otherwise arising under federal law. The FDA, in consultation with the DEA, required us to develop a comprehensive REMS containing the elements of the class-wide ER/LA opioid REMS to reduce the inappropriate use of Zohydro ER, including restrictions on the manner in which it is marketed and sold, so as to reduce the risk of improper patient selection and diversion or abuse of the product. The restrictions of this program could limit market acceptance of the product. Pursuant to the terms of our license agreement with Alkermes, we entered into a commercial manufacturing and supply agreement for Zohydro ER with APIL. APIL has the exclusive right to manufacture and supply both clinical and commercial supplies of Zohydro ER (subject to certain exceptions). While APIL is required to comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding controlled substances, we do not have any direct control over APIL's compliance in these regards, and any failure by APIL to comply with those laws and regulations could result in a reduction or cessation of production of Zohydro ER. Annual DEA quotas on the amount of hydrocodone allowed to be produced in the United States and our specific allocation of hydrocodone by the DEA could significantly limit the production or sale of Zohydro ER.The DEA limits the availability and production of all Schedule II substances through a quota system which includes a national aggregate quota and individual procurement quotas. Because hydrocodone is subject to the DEA's production and 61Table of Contentsprocurement quota scheme, the DEA establishes annually an aggregate quota for how much hydrocodone may be produced in total in the United States based on the DEA's estimate of the quantity needed to meet legitimate scientific and medicinal needs. This limited aggregate amount of hydrocodone that the DEA allows to be produced in the United States each year is allocated among individual companies, who must submit applications annually to the DEA for individual production and procurement quotas. The DEA requires substantial evidence and documentation of expected legitimate medical and scientific needs before assigning procurement quotas to manufacturers. The DEA may adjust aggregate production quotas and individual production and procurement quotas from time to time during the year, although the DEA has substantial discretion in whether or not to make such adjustments. Alkermes, which has licensed us the right to sell Zohydro ER in the United States, was allocated a sufficient quantity of hydrocodone to meet our planned launch requirements through the majority of 2014. However, we anticipate requesting an additional allocation to support expected growth by the end of 2014. Moreover, we do not know what amounts of hydrocodone other companies developing product candidates containing hydrocodone may request for future years. The DEA, in assessing factors such as medical need, abuse and diversion potential and other policy considerations, may choose to set the aggregate hydrocodone quota lower than the total amount requested by the companies. Alkermes is permitted to petition the DEA to increase the annual aggregate quota after it is initially established, but there is no guarantee that the DEA would act favorably upon such a petition. Alkermes procurement quota of hydrocodone may not be sufficient to meet any future clinical development needs or commercial demand for Zohydro ER. Any delay or refusal by the DEA in establishing the procurement quota or a reduction in Alkermes quota for hydrocodone or a failure to increase it over time as we anticipate could delay or stop commercial sale of Zohydro ER or cause us not to achieve our expected operating results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Even though Sumavel DosePro has received regulatory approval in a limited number of foreign countries, we or any other potential partners may never receive approval in additional countries or for additional products outside of the United States. In March 2008, we established an exclusive commercial partnership for Sumavel DosePro with Desitin in the European Union, Norway, Switzerland and Turkey, in order to seek to accelerate the development and regulatory approvals in those territories. However, on August 5, 2013, we agreed with Desitin to terminate the licensing and distribution agreement effective October 1, 2013. Following the termination of the licensing and distribution agreement, the marketing authorizations for Sweden, Norway, France and the United Kingdom were withdrawn. We may seek to establish commercial partnerships for Sumavel DosePro in other foreign countries, and we may also seek to establish a new commercial partnership in the European Union, Norway, Switzerland and Turkey. In order to market our products outside of the United States, we, or any potential partner, must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials and commercial sales, pricing and distribution of our products. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed in these “Risk Factors” regarding FDA approval in the United States, as well as other risks. For example, in the European Economic Area, or EEA (comprised of the 27 European Union, or EU, member states plus Iceland, Liechtenstein, and Norway), we can take advantage of the hybrid application pathway of the EU Centralized Procedure, which is similar to the FDA’s 505(b)(2) pathway. Hybrid applications may rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials contained in the authorization dossier of the reference product, but must be supplemented with additional data. In territories where data is not freely available, we or our partners may not have the ability to commercialize our products without negotiating rights from third parties to refer to their clinical data in our regulatory applications, which could require the expenditure of significant additional funds. We, or any potential partner, may be unable to obtain rights to the necessary clinical data and may be required to develop our own proprietary safety effectiveness dossiers. Desitin submitted a Marketing Authorization Application for Sumavel DosePro to the Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices (Bundesinstitut für Arzneimittel und Medizinprodukte (BfArM)) in Germany, the reference member state, through the Decentralized Procedure in October 2009, following completion of a European pivotal bioequivalence trial comparing needle-free Sumavel DosePro to a traditional needle-based autoinjector, Imigran-Inject, the European brand of Imitrex STATdose. However, regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Inability to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed in these “Risk Factors” regarding FDA approval in the United States. As described above, such effects include the risks that our product and product candidates may not be approved at all or for all requested indications, which could limit the uses of our product and product candidates and have an adverse effect on their commercial potential or require costly, post-marketing studies. In addition, we, or any potential partner, may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution if we are unable to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements.62Table of ContentsHealth care reform measures and changes in policies, funding, staffing and leadership at the FDA and other agencies could hinder or prevent the commercial success of Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER and any of our product candidates that may be approved by the FDA.In the United States, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system in ways that could affect our future results of operations and the future results of operations of our customers. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 established a new Part D prescription drug benefit, which became effective January 1, 2006. Under the prescription drug benefit, Medicare beneficiaries can obtain prescription drug coverage from private sector plans that are permitted to limit the number of prescription drugs that are covered in each therapeutic category and class on their formularies. If Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER or any of our product candidates that are approved by the FDA are not widely included on the formularies of these plans, our ability to market our products to the Medicare population could suffer.Furthermore, there have been and continue to be a number of initiatives at the federal and state levels that seek to reduce healthcare costs. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively the PPACA, was signed into law, which includes measures to significantly change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among the provisions of the PPACA of greatest importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following:•an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs;•an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for most branded and generic drugs, respectively;•a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected;•a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;•extension of manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;•expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals beginning in April 2010 and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level beginning in 2014, thereby potentially increasing both the volume of sales and manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability;•expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program;•new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians and others, including reporting any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers and reporting any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during each calendar year. Manufacturers were required to begin data collection on August 1, 2013 and report such data to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, by March 31, 2014 and the 90th day of each subsequent calendar year;•a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians, effective April 1, 2012;•a licensure framework for follow-on biologic products;•a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research;•creation of the Independent Payment Advisory Board which, beginning in 2014, has authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program that could result in reduced payments for prescription drugs and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if Congress does not act on the recommendations; and•establishment of a Center for Medicare Innovation at CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending.Other legislative changes have also been proposed and adopted in the United States since the PPACA was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or the ATRA, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, 63Table of Contentsincluding hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other health care funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers and accordingly, our financial operations.Given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of healthcare, Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on healthcare reform, the cost of prescription drugs and the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid programs. While we cannot predict the full outcome of any such legislation, it may result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. This could harm our ability to market our products and generate revenues. In addition, legislation has been introduced in Congress that, if enacted, would permit more widespread importation or re-importation of pharmaceutical products from foreign countries into the United States, including from countries where the products are sold at lower prices than in the United States. Such legislation, or similar regulatory changes, could lead to a decision to decrease our prices to better compete, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Alternatively, in response to legislation such as this, we might elect not to seek approval for or market our products in foreign jurisdictions in order to minimize the risk of re-importation, which could also reduce the revenue we generate from our product sales. It is also possible that other legislative proposals having similar effects will be adopted. Furthermore, regulatory authorities' assessment of the data and results required to demonstrate safety and efficacy can change over time and can be affected by many factors, such as the emergence of new information, including on other products, changing policies and agency funding, staffing and leadership. We cannot be sure whether future changes to the regulatory environment will be favorable or unfavorable to our business prospects. For example, average review times at the FDA for marketing approval applications have fluctuated over the last ten years, and we cannot predict the review time for any of our submissions with any regulatory authorities. In addition, review times can be affected by a variety of factors, including budget and funding levels and statutory, regulatory and policy changes. We may incur liability if our continuing medical or health education programs and/or product promotions are determined, or are perceived, to be inconsistent with regulatory guidelines.The FDA provides guidelines with respect to appropriate promotion and continuing medical and health education activities. Although we endeavor to follow these guidelines, the FDA or the Office of the Inspector General: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services may disagree, and we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. In addition, management’s attention could be diverted and our reputation could be damaged.If we fail to comply with federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, we could face substantial penalties and our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected.As a pharmaceutical company, even though we do not and will not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients’ rights are applicable to our business. We could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include:•the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which constrains our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with healthcare providers or other entities, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce, or in return for, the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;•federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us which provide coding and billing advice to customers;•the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and its implementing regulations, which prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters;•HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and its implementing regulations, which impose certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and64Table of Contents•federal “sunshine” requirements that require drug manufacturers to report and disclose any “transfer of value” made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals. Drug manufacturers were required to begin collecting data on August 1, 2013 and will be required to submit reports to CMS by March 31, 2014 (and the 90th day of each subsequent calendar year);•state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available under the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. In addition, recent health care reform legislation has strengthened these laws. For example, the PPACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal healthcare fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. Moreover, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, including the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. Certain states mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws and impose restrictions on drug manufacturer marketing practices and tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may be found out of compliance of one or more of the requirements.To the extent that any product we make is sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws and regulations. If we or our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in U.S. federal or state health care programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly. Import/export regulations and tariffs may change and increase our costs.We are subject to risks associated with the regulations relating to the import and export of products and materials. We cannot predict whether the import and/or export of our products will be adversely affected by changes in, or enactment of, new quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions imposed by India (where our supplier of the sumatriptan used in Sumavel DosePro is located), the United Kingdom (where the assembly of Sumavel DosePro takes place) or any other country in the future. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.Risks Related to Intellectual PropertyOur success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. It is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights and technology, and we may not be able to ensure their protection.Our commercial success depends in large part on obtaining and maintaining patent, trademark and trade secret protection of our products, Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER, our current product candidate, Relday, and any future product candidates, their respective components, formulations, methods used to manufacture them and methods of treatment, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. Our ability to stop unauthorized third parties from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER or our product candidates is dependent upon the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets that cover these activities. We in-license certain intellectual property for Zohydro ER from Alkermes, and certain intellectual property for Relday from Durect. We rely on these licensors to file and prosecute patent applications and maintain patents and otherwise protect certain of the intellectual property we license from them. We have not had and do not have primary control over these activities or any other intellectual property that may be related to our in-licensed intellectual property. For example, with respect to our 65Table of Contentslicense agreements with Alkermes and Durect, we cannot be certain that such activities by Alkermes and Durect have been or will be conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or will result in valid and enforceable patents and other intellectual property rights. Alkermes has retained the first right, but not the obligation, to initiate an infringement proceeding against a third-party infringer of the intellectual property rights that Alkermes has licensed to us, and enforcement of our licensed patents or defense of any claims asserting the non-infringement, invalidity or unenforceability of these patents would also be subject to the control or cooperation of Alkermes. Similarly, Durect has retained the first right, but not the obligation, to initiate an infringement proceeding against a third-party infringer of certain of the intellectual property rights that Durect has licensed to us, and enforcement of certain of our licensed patents or defense of any claims asserting the non-infringement, invalidity or unenforceability of these patents would also be subject to the control or cooperation of Durect. We are not entitled to control the manner in which Alkermes or Durect may defend certain of the intellectual property that is licensed to us and it is possible that their defense activities may be less vigorous than had we conducted the defense ourselves. Most of our patents related to DosePro were acquired from Aradigm, who acquired those patents from a predecessor owner. Our patents related to Zohydro ER are licensed from Alkermes. Thus, most of our patents, as well as many of our pending patent applications, were not written by us or our attorneys, and we did not have control over the drafting and prosecution of these patents. Further, the former patent owners and our licensors might not have given the same attention to the drafting and prosecution of these patents and applications as we would have if we had been the owners of the patents and applications and had control over the drafting and prosecution. In addition, the former patent owners and Alkermes may not have been completely familiar with U.S. patent law, possibly resulting in inadequate disclosure and/or claims. This could possibly result in findings of invalidity or unenforceability of the patents we own and in-license, patents issuing with reduced claim scope, or in pending applications not issuing as patents. In addition, as part of the agreement where we acquired patents related to DosePro from Aradigm, Aradigm retained, and we granted to Aradigm, a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty free license to the acquired patents solely for purposes of the delivery of one or more aerosolized APIs directly into the bronchia or lungs. The agreement with Aradigm also includes a covenant not to compete with us regarding technologies or products for the delivery of one or more APIs via needle free injection. That covenant expired on August 26, 2010, giving Aradigm or its licensees the right to develop and sell other needle-free injection technologies and products. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and medical device companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in patents in these fields has emerged to date in the United States. There have been recent changes regarding how patent laws are interpreted, and both the PTO and Congress have recently made significant changes to the patent system. We cannot accurately predict future changes in the interpretation of patent laws or changes to patent laws which might be enacted into law. Those changes may materially affect our patents, our ability to obtain patents and/or the patents and applications of our collaborators and licensors. The patent situation in these fields outside the United States is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in the patents we own or to which we have a license or third-party patents. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: •others may be able to make or use compounds that are similar to the pharmaceutical compounds used in Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER and our product candidates but that are not covered by the claims of our patents or our in-licensed patents; •the APIs in Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER and Relday are, or will soon become, commercially available in generic drug products, and no patent protection will be available without regard to formulation or method of use; •we or our licensors, as the case may be, may not be able to detect infringement against our in-licensed patents, which may be especially difficult for manufacturing processes or formulation patents; •we or our licensors, as the case may be, might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our owned or in-licensed issued patents or pending patent applications; •we or our licensors, as the case may be, might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; •others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; •it is possible that our pending patent applications will not result in issued patents; •it is possible that our owned or in-licensed U.S. patents or patent applications are not Orange-Book eligible; •it is possible that there are dominating patents to Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER or Relday of which we are not aware;•it is possible that there are prior public disclosures that could invalidate our or our licensors' inventions, as the case may be, or parts of our or their inventions of which we or they are not aware; •it is possible that others may circumvent our owned or in-licensed patents; 66Table of Contents•it is possible that there are unpublished applications or patent applications maintained in secrecy that may later issue with claims covering our products or technology similar to ours; •it is possible that the U.S. government may exercise any of its statutory rights to our owned or in-licensed patents or applications that were developed without government funding;•the laws of foreign countries may not protect our or our licensors', as the case may be, proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States; •the claims of our owned or in-licensed issued patents or patent applications, if and when issued, may not cover our system or products or our system or product candidates; •our owned or in-licensed issued patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be narrowed in scope, be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal administrative challenges by third parties; •we may not develop additional proprietary technologies for which we can obtain patent protection; or •the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. We also may rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, and we have limited control over the protection of trade secrets used by our licensors, collaborators and suppliers. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If our confidential or proprietary information is divulged to or acquired by third parties, including our competitors, our competitive position in the marketplace will be harmed and our ability to successfully penetrate our target markets could be severely compromised. If any of our owned or in-licensed patents are found to be invalid or unenforceable, or if we are otherwise unable to adequately protect our rights, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and our ability to commercialize or license our technology and products. Likewise, our patents covering certain technology used in our DosePro system are expected to expire on various dates from 2014 through 2026 and the patents and patent applications licensed to us by Alkermes are expected to expire in 2019. As of February 1, 2014, our patent portfolio included 22 issued U.S. patents, 12 pending U.S. patent applications, 61 issued foreign patents and 35 pending foreign patent applications relating to various aspects of Sumavel DosePro, our DosePro technology and Zohydro ER. Eleven of our U.S. patents relating to our DosePro technology, U.S. Patent Nos. 5,891,086, 5,957,886, 6,135,979, 7,776,007, 7,901,385, 8,267,903, 8,118,771, 8,241,243, 8,241,244, 8,287,489 and 8,343,130 are expected to expire in 2014, 2016, 2017, 2026, 2026, 2023, 2023, 2025, 2022, and 2024. and 2022, respectively. U.S. Patent No. 5,891,086 covers a particular actuator mechanism forming a part of the needleless injector system; U.S. Patent No. 5,957,886 claims a needleless injector system using a viscous damping medium; U.S. Patent No. 6,135,979 covers the needleless injector with particular safety mechanisms; U.S. Patent Nos. 7,776,007 and 8,287,489 cover systems with a cap and latch mechanism; U.S. Patent Nos. 7,901,385 and 8,267,903 encompass various embodiments of the casing for enclosing the injection systems; U.S. Patent Nos. 8,118,771, 8,241,243 and 8,241,244 cover a method of reducing breakage of glass capsules; 8,491,524 relates to a drug capsule filled with a formulation purged with an inert gas; and 8,343,130 covers a method of reducing the propensity to create a shock wave on firing the system as used in the Sumavel DosePro system. U.S. Patent Nos. 6,902,742 and 6,228,398 relating to Zohydro ER covers a modified release composition containing hydrocodone and are expected to expire in November 2019. Upon the expiration of these patents, we or Alkermes, as applicable, will lose the right to exclude others from practicing the claimed inventions. Additionally, since these eleven patents are the only patents currently listed in the FDA Orange Book for Sumavel DosePro, or the two patents listed for Zohydro ER, their expiration will mean that we lose certain advantages that come with Orange Book listing of patents. The expiration of these patents could also have a similar material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Moreover, if Alkermes or Durect decides not to commence or continue any action relating to the defense of the patents they have licensed to us, they are required to notify us and we have the right to initiate proceedings after receiving their notice. Such proceedings will require the assistance of Alkermes or Durect, as applicable, and we have limited control over the amount or timing of resources Alkermes or Durect devotes on our behalf or the priority they place on enforcing these patent rights.The patent rights that we have in-licensed covering Zohydro ER are limited to a modified release composition containing hydrocodone. As a result, our market opportunity for this product may be limited by the lack of patent protection for the active ingredient itself and other formulations of hydrocodone.The active ingredient in Zohydro ER is hydrocodone. Patent protection is not available for the hydrocodone molecule itself in the United States. As a result, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same active ingredient as Zohydro ER so long as the competitors do not infringe any patents that we have in-licensed from 67Table of ContentsAlkermes. We are the exclusive licensee in the United States and its territories of two U.S. patents and one U.S. patent application owned by Alkermes for oral, controlled-release hydrocodone products for the treatment or relief of pain, pain syndromes or pain associated with medical conditions or procedures. U.S. Patent Nos. 6,228,398 and 6,902,742 cover a modified release composition containing hydrocodone. These patents both expire in November 2019. Third parties may challenge the patents covering Zohydro ER, which could result in the invalidation or unenforceability of some or all of the relevant patent claims. For example, invalidity claims have been filed against U.S. Patent No. 6,228,398 for products unrelated to Zohydro ER or hydrocodone. Moreover, if a third party files an NDA or abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, for a generic drug product containing hydrocodone and relies in whole or in part on studies conducted by or for us, the third party will be required to certify to the FDA that, in the opinion of that third party, the patents listed in the Orange Book for Zohydro ER are invalid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the third party’s generic drug product. A third party certification that the new product will not infringe the Orange Book-listed patent for Zohydro ER, or that such patents are invalid, is called a Paragraph IV patent certification. If the third party submits a Paragraph IV patent certification to the FDA, a notice of the Paragraph IV patent certification must also be sent to us and Alkermes once the third-party’s NDA or ANDA is accepted for filing by the FDA. A lawsuit may then be initiated to defend the patents identified in the notice. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of the receipt of notice of a Paragraph IV patent certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the NDA or ANDA until the earlier of the expiration of a 30-month period, the expiration of the patents, the entry of a settlement order stating that the patents are invalid or not infringed, a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the NDA or ANDA applicant, or such shorter or longer period as the court may order. If a patent infringement lawsuit is not initiated within the required 45-day period, the third-party’s NDA or ANDA will not be subject to the 30-month stay. Alkermes has retained the first right, but not the obligation, to enforce our licensed patent or defend any claims asserting the invalidity or unenforceability of these patents. We are not entitled to control the manner in which Alkermes may defend certain of the intellectual property that is licensed to us and it is possible that Alkermes’ defense activities may be less vigorous than had we conducted the defense ourselves. If Alkermes decides not to initiate a patent infringement lawsuit following the receipt of notice of a Paragraph IV patent certification and we decide to do so, such litigation would be very complex in nature and may be very expensive and time-consuming, may divert our management’s attention from our core business, and may result in unfavorable results that could adversely impact our ability to prevent third parties from competing with our products. Any adverse outcome of such litigation could result in one or more generic versions of Zohydro ER being launched before the expiration of the patents we have in-licensed from Alkermes, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to commercialize Zohydro ER and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business.We are a party to a license agreement with Alkermes, pursuant to which we license key intellectual property for Zohydro ER. We also recently entered into a license agreement with Durect, pursuant to which we license key intellectual property for Relday. These existing licenses imposes various diligence, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, our licensors may have the right to terminate the license, in which event we would not be able to develop or market the affected products. If we lose such license rights, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects may be materially adversely affected. We may enter into additional licenses in the future and if we fail to comply with obligations under those agreements, we could suffer similar consequences.We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, and we may be unable to protect our rights to our products and technology.If we or our collaborators or licensors choose to go to court to stop a third party from using the inventions claimed in our owned or in-licensed patents, that third party may ask the court to rule that the patents are not infringed, invalid and/or should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we or they, as the case may be, were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that these patents are not valid and that we or they, as the case may be, do not have the right to stop others from using the inventions.There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the third party on the ground that such third-party's activities do not infringe our owned or in-licensed patents. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court has recently changed some tests regarding granting patents and assessing the validity of patents. As a consequence, issued patents may be found to contain invalid claims according to the newly revised standards. Some of our own or in-licensed 68Table of Contentspatents may be subject to challenge and subsequent invalidation or significant narrowing of claim scope in a reexamination or other post-grant proceeding before the PTO, or during litigation, under the revised criteria which make it more difficult to obtain patents. We are not entitled to control the manner in which Alkermes or Durect may defend certain of the intellectual property that is licensed to us, either in a reexamination or other post-grant proceeding before the PTO, or during the litigation, and it is possible that their defense activities may be less vigorous than had we conducted the defense ourselves. We may also not be able to detect infringement of our own or in-licensed patents, which may be especially difficult for methods of manufacturing or formulation products. While we intend to take actions reasonably necessary to enforce our patent rights, we depend, in part, on our licensors and collaborators to protect a substantial portion of our proprietary rights. For example, Alkermes, our licensor, is primarily responsible for the enforcement of the intellectual property rights related to Zohydro ER. Under the agreement, Alkermes has the first right, but not the obligation, to initiate an infringement proceeding against a third-party infringer. If Alkermes decides not to commence or continue any action, they are required to notify us and grant us step in rights to enforce the in-licensed intellectual property. Such enforcement will require the cooperation of Alkermes, and we will be responsible for Alkermes' reasonable expenses and attorney's fees incurred as a result of that cooperation. We have limited control over the amount or timing of resources Alkermes devotes on our behalf or the priority they place on enforcing these patent rights to our advantage. Similarly, Durect, our licensor, is primarily responsible for the enforcement of certain of the intellectual property rights it licenses to us related to Relday. Under the agreement, Durect has the first right, but not the obligation, to initiate an infringement proceeding against a third-party infringer of those intellectual property rights through the use, marketing, sale or import of a product that is competitive to Relday. If Durect decides not to commence or continue any such action, we have the right, but not the duty, to do so and such enforcement will require the cooperation of Durect. We have limited control over the amount or timing of resources Durect devotes on our behalf or the priority it places on enforcing these patent rights to our advantage. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business.Our commercial success depends upon our ability and the ability of our collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields relating to Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER and Relday. As the medical device, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that others may assert that our products or product candidates infringe the patent rights of others. Moreover, it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of medical devices, drugs, products or their methods of use. Thus, because of the large number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our fields, there may be a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products, product candidates, technology or methods. In addition, there may be issued patents of third parties of which we are currently unaware, that are infringed or are alleged to be infringed by our products, product candidate or proprietary technologies. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, and publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our owned and in-licensed issued patents or our pending applications, or that we or, if applicable, a licensor were the first to invent the technology. Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering our products or technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our owned and in-licensed patent applications or patents, which could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to those owned or in-licensed to us, we or, in the case of in-licensed technology, the licensor may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the PTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such proceedings may be decided against us if the other party had independently arrived at the same or similar invention prior to our own or, if applicable, our licensor's invention, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. In addition, if another party has reason to assert a substantial new question of patentability against any of our claims in our owned and in-licensed U.S. patents, the third party can request that the PTO reexamine the patent claims, which may result in a loss of scope of some claims or a loss of the entire patent. In addition to potential infringement claims, interference and reexamination proceedings, we may become a party to patent opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, Australian Patent Office or other jurisdictions where either our patents are challenged, or we are challenging the patents of others. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that our efforts would be unsuccessful. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our products and/or product candidates and/or proprietary technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. These lawsuits are costly and could adversely affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. There is a risk that a court would decide that we or our commercialization partners are infringing the third party's patents and would order us or our partners to stop the 69Table of Contentsactivities covered by the patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us or our partners to pay the other party damages for having violated the other party's patents. If a third-party's patent was found to cover our products and/or product candidates, proprietary technologies or their uses, we or our collaborators could be enjoined by a court and required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER or our product candidates or use our proprietary technologies unless we or they obtained a license to the patent. A license may not be available to us or our collaborators on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, the patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable relief which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods pending a trial on the merits, which could be years away. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the device, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: •infringement and other intellectual property claims which, regardless of merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business;•substantial damages for infringement, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights, and if the court finds that the infringement was willful, we could be ordered to pay treble damages and the patent owner’s attorneys’ fees;•a court order prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product unless the third party licenses its patent rights to us, which it is not required to do;•if a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, upfront fees and/or grant cross-licenses to intellectual property rights for our products; and•redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial monetary expenditures and time.Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.Periodic maintenance fees on our owned and in-licensed patents are due to be paid to the PTO in several stages over the lifetime of the patents. Future maintenance fees will also need to be paid on other patents which may be issued to us. We have systems in place to remind us to pay these fees, and we employ outside firms to remind us or our in-licensor to pay annuity fees due to foreign patent agencies on our pending foreign patent applications. The PTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. In many cases, an inadvertent lapse can be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules. However, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, our competitors might be able to enter the market and this circumstance would have a material adverse effect on our business. For the patents and patent applications related to Zohydro ER, Alkermes is obligated to maintain our in-licensed patents in the United States under our license agreement. Should Alkermes fail to pursue maintenance of our licensed patents and patent applications, Alkermes is obligated to notify us and, at that time, we will be granted an opportunity to maintain the prosecution and avoid withdrawal, cancellation, expiration or abandonment of the licensed U.S. patents and applications. For the patents and patent applications related to Relday, Durect is obligated to maintain certain of our in-licensed patents on a worldwide basis, using commercially reasonable efforts, under our license agreement. Should Durect fail to pursue maintenance of certain of those licensed patents and patent applications, Durect is obligated to notify us and, at that time, we will be granted an opportunity to maintain the prosecution and avoid withdrawal, cancellation, expiration or abandonment of those licensed patents and applications. We also may rely on trade secrets and confidentiality agreements to protect our technology and know-how, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, and we have limited control over the protection of trade secrets used by our licensors, collaborators and suppliers. Although we use 70Table of Contentsreasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If our confidential or proprietary information is divulged to or acquired by third parties, including our competitors, our competitive position in the marketplace will be harmed and our ability to successfully generate revenues from Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER, and, if approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, our product candidates could be adversely affected. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.As is common in the device, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other device, biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management, which would adversely affect our financial condition.71Table of ContentsRisks Relating to the Securities Markets and an Investment in Our StockThe market price of our common stock has fluctuated and is likely to continue to fluctuate substantially.The market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Since the commencement of trading in connection with our initial public offering in November 2010, the publicly traded shares of our common stock have themselves experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. During the year ended December 31, 2013, the price per share for our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market has ranged from a low sale price of $1.16 to a high sale price of $3.50. This market volatility is likely to continue. These and other factors could reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could change significantly, both over short periods of time and the longer term, due to many factors, including those described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section and the following: •announcements concerning our commercial progress in promoting and selling Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER, including sales and revenue trends; •FDA or international regulatory actions and whether and when we receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates; •the development status of Relday or any of our other product candidates, including the results from our clinical trials; •announcements of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; •announcements concerning product development results or intellectual property rights of others; •announcements relating to litigation, intellectual property or our business, and the public's response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties; •variations in the level of expenses related to Relday or any of our other product candidates or clinical development programs, including relating to the timing of invoices from, and other billing practices of, our CROs and clinical trial sites; •market conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical sector or the economy as a whole; •changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other pharmaceutical companies and price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; •litigation or public concern about the safety of Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER or our product candidates; •actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; •the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our inability to meet these projections; •deviations from securities analysts' estimates or the impact of other analyst comments; •ratings downgrades by any securities analysts who follow our common stock; •additions or departures of key personnel; •third-party payor coverage and reimbursement policies; •developments concerning current or future strategic collaborations, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements; •developments affecting our contract manufacturers, component fabricators and service providers; •the development and sustainability of an active trading market for our common stock; •future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and significant stockholders; •other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, natural disasters, security breaches, system failures or responses to these events; •changes in accounting principles; and •discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities. In addition, the stock markets, and in particular the Nasdaq Global Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many pharmaceutical companies. Stock prices of many pharmaceutical companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. The realization of any of the above risks or any of a broad range of other risks, including those described in these “Risk Factors” could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock.There may not be a viable public market for our common stock.Our common stock had not been publicly traded prior to our initial public offering in November 2010, the trading volume of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market has been limited and an active trading market may not be developed or sustained. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will lead to the development of an active trading market on the Nasdaq Global Market or otherwise or how liquid that market might become. If an active public market 72Table of Contentsdoes not develop or is not sustained, it may be difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to you, or at all. Further, an inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of our common stock and may impair our ability to enter into strategic partnerships or acquire companies or products, product candidates or technologies by using our shares of common stock as consideration.We may invest or spend our cash in ways with which you may not agree or in ways which may not yield a significant return.Our management has considerable discretion in the use of our cash. Our cash may be used for purposes that do not increase our operating results or market value. Until the cash is used, it may be placed in investments that do not produce significant income or that may lose value. The failure of our management to invest or spend our cash effectively could result in unfavorable returns and uncertainty about our prospects, each of which could cause the price of our common stock to decline.Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly.Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly because the commercial success of, and demand for, Sumavel DosePro and Zohydro ER, as well as the success and costs of our Relday and other product candidate development programs are uncertain and therefore our future prospects are uncertain. Our net loss and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including:•fluctuations in the quarterly revenues of Sumavel DosePro, including fluctuations resulting from our distributors' inventory management practices and buying patterns;•the level of underlying demand for Sumavel DosePro, Zohydro ER or any of our product candidates that may receive regulatory approval;•our ability to successfully market and sell Zohydro ER;•our ability to control production spending and underutilization of production capacity;•variations in the level of development and/or regulatory expenses related to Relday or other development programs;•results of clinical trials for Relday or any other of our product candidates;•any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved;•regulatory developments and legislative changes, including healthcare reform, affecting our products and product candidates or those of our competitors; and•our execution of any collaborative, licensing or similar arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements.If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and adversely affect our business and could subject us to significant liabilities.The stock markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of pharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations as well a broad range of other factors, including the realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors,” may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally experience significant stock price volatility. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Any adverse determination in any such litigation or any amounts paid to settle any such actual or threatened litigation could require that we make significant payments. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. As of December 31, 2013, we had research coverage by only four securities analysts. If these securities analysts cease coverage of our company, the trading price for our stock would be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.73Table of ContentsFuture sales of our common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable for our common stock may depress our stock price.Persons who were our stockholders prior to the sale of shares in our initial public offering in November 2010 continue to hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they are able to sell in the public market, subject in some cases to certain legal restrictions. Significant portions of these shares are held by a small number of stockholders. Further there is one stockholder If these stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The perception in the market that these sales may occur could also cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2013, we had 138,927,014 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, approximately 96,265,000 are freely tradeable, without restriction, in the public market.In addition, shares of common stock that are either subject to outstanding options or reserved for future issuance under our employee benefit plans are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting schedules and Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and, in any event, we have filed a registration statement permitting shares of common stock issued on exercise of options to be freely sold in the public market. If these additional shares of common stock are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline.We have registered under the Securities Act 15,784,200 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants we issued in July 2012, which warrants became exercisable on July 27, 2013 at an exercise price of $2.50 per share (subject to restrictions on exercise set forth in such warrants). As of December 31, 2013, warrants were still outstanding to exercise 15,680,700 shares of this registered common stock, which means that upon exercise of warrants, such shares will be freely tradeable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares held by our affiliates. Further, certain holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act, which, if registered, would also become freely tradeable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares held by our affiliates. In addition, our directors and executive officers may establish programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, for the purpose of effecting sales of our common stock. Any sales of securities by these stockholders, warrantholders or executive officers and directors, or the perception that those sales may occur, could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock.Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control which could limit the market price of our common stock and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions include:•a board of directors divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, such that not all members of the board will be elected at one time;•a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent, which requires that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;•a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or by a majority of the total number of authorized directors;•advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to our board of directors;•a requirement that no member of our board of directors may be removed from office by our stockholders except for cause and, in addition to any other vote required by law, upon the approval of not less than 66 2/3% of all outstanding shares of our voting stock then entitled to vote in the election of directors;•a requirement of approval of not less than 66 2/3% of all outstanding shares of our voting stock to amend any bylaws by stockholder action or to amend specific provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and•the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock on terms determined by the board of directors without stockholder approval and which preferred stock may include rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock.In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors and could also delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy 74Table of Contentscontests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing or cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.The continued operation and expansion of our business will require substantial funding. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our available cash to fund the development and growth of our business. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation in the market price of their stock, which may never occur. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to meet compliance obligations.As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, that impose significant requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. In addition, on July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. The requirements of these rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place considerable strain on our personnel, systems and resources. Our management and other personnel have devoted and will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. In addition, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified people to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. In particular, commencing in fiscal 2011, we performed system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting which allowed management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404. Our future testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our consolidated financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. We expect to incur significant expense and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with Section 404. Pursuant to Section 404(c) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to deliver an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We currently do not have an internal audit function, and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training for our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate consolidated financial statements or other reports on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would entail expenditure of additional financial and management resources. 75Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable. 