D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry The current industry-wide shortage of high-purity silicon may constrain our revenue growth and decrease our margins and profitability. We produce solar modules, which are an array of interconnected solar cells encased in a weatherproof package, and products that use solar modules. High-purity silicon is an essential raw material in the production of solar cells and is also used in the semiconductor industry generally. While we do have in-house solar cell manufacturing capabilities, we continue to depend on solar wafer and cell supplies from a few producers. There is currently an industry-wide shortage of high-purity silicon because of increased demand as a result of recent expansions of, and increased demand in, the solar power and semiconductor industries. The shortage of high-purity silicon has driven the overall increase in silicon feedstock prices. For example, according to the March 2007 and 2008 reports by Solarbuzz, a leading professional magazine for the solar industry, the average long-term silicon feedstock contracted price increased from approximately $28-32 per kilogram in 2004 to $65-75 per kilogram in 2008. Prices of silicon feedstock obtained through spot purchases or short-term contracts went as high as $400 per kilogram in 2007, peaking in the second half of 2007 but were at $250 per kilogram for three-month supply contracts. The shortage of high-purity silicon has also resulted in a shortage of, and significant price increases for, solar cells. Solarbuzz cites that mainstream multicrystalline silicon cell prices in Euros increased from the first quarter of 2006 to the first quarter of 2007 by an average of 8%, while monocrystalline silicon photovoltaic (PV) cell prices in Euros increased by a similar proportion. Multicrystalline silicon cell prices in Euros decreased from the first quarter of 2007 to the first quarter of 2008 by an average of 9%, while monocrystalline silicon PV cell prices in Euros decreased by a similar proportion. The blended average (mono and multi) cell prices in Euros decreased from the first quarter of 2007 to the first quarter of 2008 by 8.5%. The average price of silicon feedstock and solar cells remained high in 2007. Any further increase in the demand from the semiconductor industry will compound the shortage and price increases. The shortage of high-purity silicon has constrained our revenue growth in the past and may continue to do so. Increases in the prices of silicon feedstock and solar cells have in the past increased our production costs and may impact our cost of revenues and net income in the future. The production of high-purity silicon is capital intensive and adding additional capacity requires significant lead time. While we are aware that several new facilities for the manufacture of high-purity silicon are under construction, we do not believe that the supply shortage will be alleviated in the very near term. We expect that demand for high-purity silicon will continue to outstrip supply for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, if we cannot fulfill our solar cell needs through internal production and obtain solar wafers and solar cells externally at commercially viable prices, this could adversely affect our margins and operating results. This would have a material negative impact on our business and operating results. If we are unable to secure an adequate and cost effective supply of solar wafers, solar cells or reclaimable silicon, our revenue, margins and profits could be adversely affected. Solar cells are the most important component of solar module products. We engage in vertical integration of our supply chain to secure a sufficient and cost-effective supply of solar cells through a combination of internal solar cell component manufacturing and also our sourcing of silicon feedstock, toll manufacturing arrangements with suppliers of ingots, wafers and cells and direct purchases from solar cell suppliers. However, the industry-wide shortage of polysilicon and silicon wafers has resulted in sharp increases and significant volatility in polysilicon and silicon wafer prices since 2003. Although we seek to control our costs of raw materials by planning and managing the timing of our spot market purchases, there is no assurance that we will accurately predict future pricing trends or 7 Table of Contents that we can achieve our objective of securing adequate quantities of polysilicon and silicon wafers at competitive prices. We believe the average price of polysilicon and silicon wafers will remain high and could increase further in the near term. The increasing price of polysilicon and silicon wafers has largely contributed to the increase in our production costs for PV cells and modules in the past three years and may continue to have the same effect in the future, notwithstanding our continuing efforts to use polysilicon and silicon wafers more efficiently. In addition, we may not be able to pass to our customers our increased production costs resulting from, among other things, the increased costs of polysilicon and silicon wafers. Despite the rise in the price of polysilicon and silicon wafers, PV module manufacturers worldwide are expanding their production capacities in response to the growing popularity worldwide of PV products. We believe that such capacity expansion, particularly in markets where government subsidies for solar energy consumption are declining, will cause a gradual decline in the price of PV modules, which may more than offset any cost savings from technological improvements that lead to a more efficient use of polysilicon and silicon wafers. While we have been able to secure silicon to meet our production needs in the past, due to ongoing industry shortages of silicon feedstock, solar wafers and solar cells, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to successfully manage our supply chain and secure an adequate and cost-effective supply of solar cells. For example, we have entered into several long-term contracts with silicon raw material suppliers, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain adequate supplies from them under these contracts or from other suppliers in sufficient quantities and at commercially viable prices in the future. Moreover, toll manufacturing arrangements may not be available to us in the future or at higher volumes, in particular as high-purity silicon becomes more readily available in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our margins and profitability. While we produce solar cells internally to meet a portion of our solar cell needs, we cannot guarantee you that we will be able to successfully produce enough solar cells to supplement our solar cell needs. If we are unable to procure an adequate supply of solar cells, either via contractual arrangements providing solar cells to us at commercially viable prices or through in-house production, we may be unable to meet the demand for our products and could lose our customers and market share, and our margins and revenues could decline. In addition, while we have been able to generate cost savings in the past through our recycling of reclaimable silicon, we cannot assure you that we will be able to secure sufficient reclaimable silicon at higher volumes and reasonable prices in the future as we believe there is a limited supply of reclaimable silicon available in the market and intensified competition for these materials as a result of new competitors entering the market. Recently, there has been increased scrutiny by the Chinese Customs authorities on the import of scrap silicon over a concern that the recycling process for certain types of scrap silicon may cause environmental damage if not performed in a fully licensed factory. This has created certain disruptions to our silicon reclamation business. Since December 2006, 1.2 tons of our scrap silicon has been under detention by the Chinese Customs authorities. In August 2007, following testing by Chinese Customs authorities, one-fourth of this amount was identified by them as prohibited solid waste. In April 2008, the Chinese Customs authorities ordered us to return the detained 1.2 tons of scrap silicon to its point of origin. They did not impose any fines or subject us to further administrative actions. We are actively working with local industry groups, the Chinese Customs authorities and the Chinese Environment Protection Administration to define new procedures and regulations governing scrap silicon. These new regulations may increase the cost of reclamation and limit our ability to sustain or expand our silicon reclamation program. If we are unable to secure a sufficient supply of reclaimable silicon at reasonable prices and reclaim this silicon on a cost-efficient basis, we cannot assure you that we will be able to save cost through our reclamation program and maintain our profit margin as a result of further negative changes in the government policy. Advance payments to our polysilicon and silicon wafer suppliers and credit term sales offered to some of our customers expose us to the credit risks of such suppliers and customers and may increase our costs and expenses, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Under existing supply contracts with many of our multi-year silicon wafer suppliers, and consistent with industry practice, we make advance payments to our suppliers prior to the scheduled delivery dates for silicon wafer supplies. In many such cases, the advance payments are made in the absence of receiving collateral for such payments. Moreover, we offer some of our customers short term and/or medium term credit sales based on our relationship with them and market conditions, also in the absence of receiving collateral. As a result, our claim for 8 Table of Contents such payments or sales credit would rank as unsecured claims, which would expose us to the credit risks of our suppliers and/or customers in the event of their insolvency or bankruptcy. Accordingly, any of the above scenarios may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our ability to adjust our materials costs may be limited as a result of entering into prepaid, fixed-priced arrangements with our suppliers, and it therefore may be difficult for us to respond appropriately in a timely manner to market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our cost of revenues and profitability. We have in the past secured, and plan to continue to secure, our supply of polysilicon and silicon wafers through prepaid supply arrangements with overseas and domestic suppliers. In the past three years, we entered into supply contracts with some of our suppliers under which these suppliers agreed to provide us with specified quantities of silicon wafers, and we have made prepayments to these suppliers in accordance with the supply contracts. The prices of the supply contracts we entered into with some of our suppliers are fixed. If the prices of polysilicon or silicon wafers were to decrease in the future and we are locked into prepaid, fixed-price arrangements, we may not be able to adjust our materials costs, and our cost of revenues would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if demand for our PV products decreases, we may incur costs associated with carrying excess materials, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating expenses. To the extent we are not able to pass these increased costs and expenses to our customers, our profitability may be materially reduced. Because the markets in which we compete are highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than us, we may not be able to compete successfully and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. We compete with a large number of competitors in the solar module market. These include international competitors such as BP Solar International Inc., or BP Solar, Sharp Solar Corporation, or Sharp Solar, SolarWorld AG, or SolarWorld, and competitors located in China such as Suntech Power Holdings Co., Ltd., Yingli Green Energy Holding Company Limited, Solarfun Power Holdings Co., Ltd. and Trina Solar Limited. We expect to face increasing competition in the future. Further, many of our competitors are developing and are currently producing products based on new solar power technologies that may ultimately have costs similar to, or lower than, our projected costs. For example, some of our competitors are developing or currently producing products based on alternative solar technologies, such as thin film photovoltaic materials, which they believe will ultimately cost the same as or less than crystalline silicon technologies, which we use. Solar modules produced using thin film materials, such as amorphous silicon, cadmium telluride and copper indium gallium diselenide (CIGS) technology, require significantly less silicon to produce than crystalline silicon solar modules, such as our products, and are less susceptible to increases in silicon costs. We may also face competition from semiconductor manufacturers, several of which have either announced plans to start or have already commenced production of solar modules. In addition, from a technological and capital investment point of view, the entry barriers are relatively low in the solar module manufacturing business given the low capital requirements and relatively little technological complexity involved. Due to the scarcity of high-purity silicon, supply chain management, access to financing and establishment of name brand recognition and a strong customer base are key entry barriers at present. However, if high-purity silicon supplies increase, some of these barriers may disappear or lessen and many new competitors may enter into the industry resulting in rapid industry fragmentation and loss of our market share. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and resources and significantly greater economies of scale. In addition, our competitors may have stronger relationships or may enter into exclusive relationships with some of the key distributors or system integrators to whom we sell our products. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demand or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we can. The sale of our solar module products generated 97.7% and 87.6% of our net revenues in 2005 and 2006, respectively, and 96.0% for 2007. Many of our competitors have more diversified product offerings and may be better positioned to withstand a decline in the demand for solar power products. Some of our competitors have also become vertically integrated, from upstream silicon wafer manufacturing to solar power system integration. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among existing competitors could emerge and 9 Table of Contents rapidly acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. If we fail to compete successfully, our business would suffer and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. In the immediate future, we believe that in order to remain competitive, we will need to continue focusing on securing silicon feedstock and solar wafers for our in-house solar cell manufacturing needs and expanding our internal production capacity, developing our in-house solar wafer manufacturing capacity, maintaining strategic relationships with a few select suppliers to fulfill our remaining solar cell and solar wafer needs and increasing our sales and marketing efforts to secure customer orders. Many of our competitors have greater access to silicon raw materials and cell supply, including stronger strategic relationships with leading global and domestic silicon feedstock suppliers, or have more significant silicon wafer and cell manufacturing capabilities. We believe that as the supply of high-purity silicon stabilizes and customers become more knowledgeable and selective, the key to competing successfully in the industry will shift to more traditional sales and marketing activities. We have conducted very limited advertising to date, focusing primarily on medium to larger sized solar power distributors and integrators in the European market in the past, and cannot assure you that we will be able to make that transition successfully. The greater name recognition of some of our competitors may make it difficult for us to compete as a result of this industry transition. In addition, the solar power market in general competes with other sources of renewable energy and conventional solar power generation. If prices for conventional and other renewable energy resources decline, or if these resources enjoy greater policy support than solar power, the solar power market could suffer. Evaluating our business and prospects may be difficult because of our limited operating history. There is limited historical information available about our company upon which you can base your evaluation of our business and prospects. We began business operations in October 2001 and shipped our first solar module products in March 2002. With the rapid growth of the solar power industry, we have experienced a high growth rate since our inception and, in particular, since 2004 after we began to sell standard solar modules. As a result, our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. We may not be able to achieve growth rates in future periods similar to those we have experienced in recent periods, and our business model at higher volumes is unproven. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a rapidly growing market. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate from period to period in the future. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate from period to period based on a number of factors, including: • the average selling prices of our solar modules and products; • the availability and pricing of raw materials, particularly high-purity silicon and reclaimable silicon; • the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of solar cells and wafers from our suppliers and toll manufacturers; • the rate and cost at which we are able to expand our internal manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand and the timeliness and success of these expansion efforts; • the impact of seasonal variations in demand linked to construction cycles and weather conditions, with purchases of solar products tending to decrease during the winter months in our key markets, such as Germany, due to adverse weather conditions that can complicate the installation of solar power systems; • timing, availability and changes in government incentive programs and regulations, particularly in our key and target markets; • unpredictable volume and timing of customer orders, some of which are not fixed by contract but vary on a purchase order basis; 10 Table of Contents • the loss of one or more key customers or the significant reduction or postponement of orders from these customers; • availability of financing for on-grid and off-grid solar power applications; • unplanned additional expenses such as manufacturing failures, defects or downtime; • acquisition and investment related costs; • geopolitical turmoil within any of the countries in which we operate or sell products; • foreign currency fluctuations, particularly in the Euro, U.S. dollar and RMB; • our ability to establish and expand customer relationships; • changes in our manufacturing costs; • changes in the relative sales mix of our products; • our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced solar modules and products in a timely manner, and the amount and timing of related research and development costs; • the timing of new product or technology announcements or introductions by our competitors and other developments in the competitive environment; and • increases or decreases in electric rates due to changes in fossil fuel prices or other factors. We base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue, and a significant portion of our expenses will be fixed in the short-term. If revenue for a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we likely will be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. This may cause us to miss analysts’ guidance or any guidance announced by us. If we fail to meet or exceed analyst or investor expectations or our own future guidance, even by a small amount, our share price could decline, perhaps substantially. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar power could cause demand for our products, our revenues, profits and margins to decline. We believe that the near-term growth of the solar power market, particularly for on-grid applications, depends in large part on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Because a substantial portion of our sales is made in the on-grid market, the reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives may adversely hinder the growth of this market or result in increased price competition, which could cause our revenues to decline. Presently, the cost of solar power substantially exceeds the cost of power provided by the electric utility grid in many locations. Governments around the world have used different policy initiatives to accelerate the development and adoption of solar power and other renewable energy sources. Renewable energy policies are in place in the European Union, most notably Germany and Spain, certain countries in Asia, and many of the states in Australia and the United States. Examples of customer-focused financial incentives include capital cost rebates, feed-in tariffs, tax credits and net metering and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar power in both on-grid and off-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether, or governmental entities could reprioritize solar initiatives that they have launched. For example, according to Solarbuzz, plans by the Shanghai municipal government to install solar energy heating systems on 100,000 rooftops have stalled. Reductions in, or eliminations of, government subsidies and economic incentives before the solar power industry reaches a scale of economy sufficient to be cost-effective in a non-subsidized market place could result in decreased demand for our products and decrease our revenues, profits and margins. 11 Table of Contents Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In a number of countries, these regulations and policies have been modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our products. For example, without a regulatory mandated exception for solar power systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of using our solar module products and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, pricing regulations and policies may place limits on our ability to increase the price of our solar module products in response to increases in our solar raw material costs, including solar cells. We anticipate that our products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local regulations relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual jurisdictions and design products to comply with the varying standards. For example, the European Union’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, which took effect in July 2006, is a general directive. Each European Union member state will adopt its own enforcement and implementation policies using the directive as a guide. Therefore, there could be many different versions of this law that we will have to comply with to maintain or expand our sales in Europe. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar module products may result in significant additional expenses to us and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar module products. In particular, any changes to existing regulations and policies or new regulations and policies in Germany could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Sales to customers located in Germany accounted for 75.3% and 56.9% of our net revenues in 2005 and 2006, respectively, and 68.3% for 2007, in part because of the availability and amounts of government subsidies and economic incentives in Germany. If solar power technology is not suitable for widespread adoption, or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our revenues may not continue to increase or may even decline, and we may be unable to sustain our profitability. The solar power market is at a relatively early stage of development, and the extent of acceptance of solar power products is uncertain. Market data on the solar power industry is not as readily available as for other more established industries where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. In addition, demand for solar power products in our targeted markets, including Germany, Spain, Korea, Italy and Greece, may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of solar power technology and demand for solar power products, including: • cost-effectiveness, performance and reliability of solar power products compared to conventional and other renewable energy sources and products; • availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar power industry; • success of other alternative energy generation technologies, such as wind power, hydroelectric power, geothermal and biomass; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and other renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; • capital expenditures by end users of solar power products, which tend to decrease when the economy slows down; 12 Table of Contents • deregulation of the electric power industry and broader energy industry; and • changes in seasonal demands for our products. If solar power technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our revenues may suffer and we may be unable to sustain our profitability. The lack or unavailability of financing for on-grid and off-grid solar power applications could cause our sales to decline. Our solar module products are used in both on-grid applications and off-grid applications. Off-grid applications are used where access to utility networks is not economical or physically feasible. In some developing countries, government agencies and the private sector have, from time to time, provided financing on preferential terms for rural electrification programs. We believe that the availability of financing programs could have a significant effect on the level of sales of solar modules for both on-grid and off-grid applications. If existing financing programs for on-grid and off-grid applications are eliminated or if financing programs are inaccessible or inadequate, the growth of the market for on-grid and off-grid applications may be materially and adversely affected, which could cause our sales to decline. In addition, a rise in interest rates could render existing financings more expensive and present an obstacle for potential financings that would otherwise spur the growth of the solar power industry, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We may be unable to procure adequate sources of needed capital due to market conditions beyond our control, which may adversely impact our ability to grow our business. Our operations are capital intensive. Despite our ability as a publicly traded company to raise capital via public equity and debt issuances in addition to traditional commercial banking credit, a combination of the current weakness in global capital markets due to an economic downturn and tightened credit control policies by the PRC government aimed at dampening inflation may adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to access necessary capital to achieve our performance targets and expansion goals. We rely on working capital financing from PRC commercial banks for our daily operations. Although we are currently able to obtain new commercial loans from these PRC commercial banks, we cannot guarantee that we can continue to do so, which may have a material and adverse impact to us and our ability to grow our business. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by manufacturers of PV and related products; and • economic, political and other conditions in the PRC and elsewhere. If we are unable to obtain funding in a timely manner, on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, our growth prospects and future profitability may be adversely affected. Our dependence on a limited number of solar wafer, solar cell and silicon raw material suppliers could prevent us from timely delivering our products to our customers in the required quantities, which could result in order cancellations and decreased revenues. We purchase silicon raw materials, which include polysilicon, solar wafers and solar cells, from a limited number of third-party suppliers. Our major suppliers of silicon raw materials include Luoyang Zhong Gui High Tech Co. Ltd., or Luoyang Poly, which provides us with specified minimum quantities of polysilicon, LDK Solar Co., Ltd., or LDK, and Deutsche Solar AG, or Deutsche Solar, which provide us specified minimum quantities of solar wafers; and China Sunergy Co., Ltd., or China Sunergy, Gintech Energy Corporation, or Gintech, and Neo Solar Power, or NSP, which provides us specified minimum quantities of solar cells. We have also entered into annual supply agreements with a few other overseas and domestic Chinese solar wafer and solar cell suppliers. In connection with our new UMgSi product initiative, we have entered into a supply contract with Becancour Silicon, Inc., or BSI, to supply us with UMgSi for solar module production. These suppliers may not be able to meet the 13 Table of Contents specified minimum quantities set forth in the contracts. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these or our other suppliers, we may not be able to internally produce or secure a supply of solar cells at cost-effective prices, or at all. If that were to occur, we may be unable to manufacture our products in a timely manner or our products may be manufactured only at a higher cost, and we could be prevented from delivering our products to our customers in the required quantities and at prices that are profitable. Problems of this kind could cause us to experience order cancellations and loss of market share and harm our reputation. The failure of a supplier to supply solar wafers, solar cells or silicon raw materials that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could impair our ability to manufacture our products or increase our costs, particularly if we are unable to obtain these solar wafers, solar cells or silicon raw materials from alternative sources on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. For example, in late 2006, one of our major suppliers of solar wafers incurred serious fire damage with its silicon cast ingot furnaces. This resulted in a chain reaction and caused a shortage and price increase of multi-crystalline solar wafers, which is a key material for our products. Our dependence on a limited number of customers and our lack of long-term customer contracts may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our revenues. We currently sell a substantial portion of our solar module products to a limited number of customers, including distributors and system integrators, and various manufacturers who either integrate our products into their own products or sell them as part of their product portfolio. Our top five customers collectively accounted for approximately 53.4% and 78.8% of our net revenues in 2006 and 2007, respectively. Iliotec Solar GmbH, and Otto Bihler Maschinenfabrik GmbH & Co. KG each contributed over 10% of our net revenues in 2006. Schüco International KG, City Solar AG and pro solar Solarstrom each contributed over 10% of our net revenues for 2007. Sales to our customers are typically made through one-year frame work sales agreements with quarterly firm orders stipulating prices and product amounts as adjusted or negotiated with customers. We anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers will continue for the foreseeable future. Consequently, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenues: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; • loss of one or more of our significant customers and our failure to identify additional or replacement customers; and • failure of any of our significant customers to make timely payment for our products. Even though our top five customers have contributed to a significant portion of our revenues, we have experienced changes in our top customers. As we continue to grow our business and operations, we expect our top customers may continue to change. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop a consistent customer base. Cancellation of customer product orders may make us unable to recoup prepayments made to suppliers. Suppliers of solar wafers, cells and silicon raw materials typically require us to make prepayments well in advance of shipment. While we also sometimes require our customers to make partial prepayments, there is typically a lag between the time of our prepayment for solar wafers, cells and silicon raw materials and the time that our customers make prepayments to us. As a result, the purchase of solar wafers, cells and silicon feedstock, and other silicon raw materials through toll manufacturing arrangements, has required, and will continue to require, us to make significant working capital commitments beyond that generated from our cash flows from operations to support our estimated production output. In the event our customers cancel their orders, we may not be able to recoup prepayments made to suppliers in connection with our customers’ orders, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to manage our expansion of operations effectively. We commenced business operations in October 2001 and have since grown rapidly. We expect to continue to significantly expand our business to meet the growth in demand for our products, as well as to capture new market opportunities. To manage the potential growth of our operations, we will be required to improve our operational and financial systems and procedures and controls. Our rapid growth has strained our resources and made it difficult to 14 Table of Contents maintain and update our internal procedures and controls as necessary to meet the expansion of our overall business. We must also increase production output, expand, train and manage our growing employee base, and successfully establish new subsidiaries to operate new or expanded facilities. Additionally, access to additional funds to support the expansion of our business may not always be available to us. Furthermore, our management will be required to maintain and expand our relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. We cannot assure you that our current and planned operations, personnel, systems and internal procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future growth. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures. Technological changes in the solar power industry could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our revenues and profit to decline. The solar power market is characterized by evolving technology standards that require improved features, such as more efficient and higher power output, improved aesthetics and smaller size. This requires us to develop new solar module products and enhancements for existing solar module products to keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. Technologies developed by others may prove more advantageous than ours for the commercialization of solar module products and may render our technology obsolete. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar module products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our revenues to decline. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to maintain our market position, keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and effectively compete in the future. If our future innovations fail to enable us to maintain or improve our competitive position, we may lose market share. If we are unable to successfully design, develop and introduce or bring to market competitive new solar module products, or enhance our existing solar module products, we may not be able to compete successfully. Competing solar power technologies may result in lower manufacturing costs or higher product performance than those expected from our solar module products. In addition, if we are unable to manage product transitions, our business and results of operations would be negatively affected. We have recently begun to focus our efforts on development of and expansion into the use of UMgSi as a component of our solar products. We cannot assure you that these efforts will yield any successful results, if at all. In response to the shortage of high-purity silicon, we believe that UMgSi provides a viable alternative source of silicon materials, and have been focusing efforts on developing technologies related to UMgSi solar products. We believe that we have currently made significant progress in this arena, have shipped initial UMgSi solar products and are prepared to launch full scale commercial production of and sales of such UMgSi solar products during 2008. However, we have limited prior manufacturing experience with this material, and we may be unable to achieve desired solar cell efficiencies using UMgSi. Additionally, in the event that the market response to our UMgSi solar products is unfavorable, use of this material may not be economically viable. We cannot assure you that our research and product development efforts using UMgSi will prove to be successful, or that we will be able to create an economically sustainable solar product using this material. We have limited experience in the high value-added building integrated photovoltaic (BIPV) market and we may be unable to manage the growth of our BIPV business or successfully operate in the BIPV market. Our first BIPV project was completed in Luoyang, China in 2007. BIPV products generally enjoy higher profit margins when compared to standard PV modules, due to solar energy generation capabilities being integrated into the design of a building or structure. We intend to further expand our capabilities in the BIPV market and invest in research and development activities in such products. Due to our limited experience in the BIPV market, and the relatively small portion of our revenue that these projects currently comprise, there can be no assurance that we successfully expand into this new area of business. We may not have the necessary research and development capabilities or marketing and sales personnel required to meet customer needs or manage our growth. In addition, 15 Table of Contents we may face competitors in the BIPV market with substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources. If we are unable to manage the growth of our BIPV business or if our BIPV products fail to meet the needs of our customers, there may be a material adverse effect on our reputation, our existing business, financial condition or results of operations. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our PV products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. In 2007, 97.8% of our products were sold to customers outside of China. The international marketing, distribution and sale of our PV products exposes us to a number of risks, including: • difficulties staffing and managing overseas operations; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • increased costs associated with maintaining the ability to understand local markets and trends, as well as developing and maintaining an effective marketing and distributing presence in various countries; • providing customer service and support in these markets; • our ability to manage our sales channels effectively as we expand beyond distributors to include direct sales to systems integrators, end users and installers; • difficulties and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial, legal and regulatory requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer our products; • failure to develop appropriate risk management and internal control structures tailored to overseas operations; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; • unanticipated changes in prevailing economic conditions and regulatory requirements; and • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. Our future success substantially depends on our ability to significantly expand our internal solar components manufacturing capacity, which exposes us to a number of risks and uncertainties. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase our internal solar components manufacturing capacity. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to expand our business, decrease our costs per watt, maintain our competitive position and improve our profitability. Our ability to establish additional manufacturing capacity is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: • the need to raise significant additional funds to purchase raw materials and to build additional manufacturing facilities, which we may be unable to obtain on commercially viable terms or at all; • delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including delays in equipment delivery by vendors; • delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; • diversion of significant management attention and other resources; and • failure to execute our expansion plan effectively. If we are unable to establish or successfully operate our internal solar components manufacturing capabilities, or if we encounter any of the risks described above, we may be unable to expand our business as planned. Moreover, 16 Table of Contents even if we do expand our manufacturing capacity we might not be able to generate sufficient customer demand for our solar power products to support our increased production levels. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, especially Dr. Shawn Qu, our founder, chairman, president and chief executive officer, Charlotte Klein, our corporate controller and compliance officer, Bencheng Li, our vice president, business development (China), Gregory Spanoudakis, our vice president, Europe, Tai Seng Png, our vice president, business integration and Robert Patterson, our vice president, business development (North America). Bing Zhu, our chief financial officer, will resign from this position effective as of June 7, 2008. Arthur Chien, our vice president, finance, has been appointed as chief financial officer, also effective as of June 7, 2008. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers, in particular those with a significant mix of both international and China-based solar power industry experience as many of our current officers have. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, whether in violation of their agreements with us or otherwise, we may lose some of our customers. Problems with product quality or product performance, including defects, in our products could damage our reputation, or result in a decrease in customers and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Our products may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or are installed because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. These defects could cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our personnel from product development efforts and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. If we deliver solar module products with errors or defects, or if there is a perception that our products contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our solar module products could be harmed. In one instance in 2005 and another in 2006, customers raised concerns about the stated versus actual performance output of some of our solar modules. We determined that these concerns resulted from differences in calibration methodologies and we resolved the issue with these customers. However, the corrective actions and procedures that we took may turn out to be inadequate to prevent further incidents of the same problem or to protect against future errors or defects. As we continue to develop our internal solar cell manufacturing capabilities and expand into in-house solar ingot and solar wafer production, we may have problems standardizing product quality in these new areas of business. In addition, some of our ingot, wafer and cell suppliers with whom we have toll manufacturing arrangements previously raised concerns about the quality and consistency of the silicon feedstock, in particular the reclaimable silicon that we recycle through our silicon reclamation program for re-use in the solar power industry, that we have provided to them for their ultimate conversion into solar cells. The use of reclaimed silicon in the solar power supply chain has an inherent risk as it is difficult to maintain the consistency and quality of reclaimed silicon at the same level as high-purity silicon. The successful use of reclaimed silicon requires extensive experience, know-how and additional quality control measures from both the provider of reclaimed silicon and the toll manufacturers. If we cannot successfully maintain the consistency and quality of the reclaimed silicon from our silicon reclamation program at an acceptable level, this may result in less efficient solar cells for our solar modules or in a lower conversion ratio of solar cells per ton of silicon feedstock that we provide, and may potentially delay and reduce our supply of solar cells. This may reduce or eliminate the cost advantages of recycling silicon through our silicon reclamation program. This could also cause problems with product quality or product performance, including defects in our products, and increase the cost of producing our products. We obtain some of the solar wafers and solar cells that we use in our products from third parties, either directly or through toll manufacturing arrangements, and we have limited control over the quality of that portion of the solar wafers and solar cells we incorporate into our solar modules. Unlike solar modules, which are subject to certain uniform international standards, solar wafers and solar cells generally do not have uniform international standards, and it is often difficult to determine whether solar module product defects are a result of the solar cells or other components or reasons. We also rely on third party suppliers for other components that we use in our products, such 17 Table of Contents as glass, frame and backing for our solar modules, and electronic components for our specialty solar modules and products. Furthermore, the solar cells and other components that we purchase from third party suppliers are typically sold to us without any, or with only limited, warranty. The possibility of future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation, reduce our market share and cause our revenues to decline. Since we cannot test our products for the duration of our standard warranty periods, we may be subject to unexpected warranty expense. Our standard solar modules are typically sold with a two-year guarantee for defects in materials and workmanship and a 10-year and 25-year warranty against declines of more than 10.0% and 20.0%, respectively, of the initial minimum power generation capacity at the time of delivery. Our specialty solar modules and products are typically sold with a one-year guarantee against defects in materials and workmanship and may, depending on the characteristics of the product, contain a limited warranty of up to ten years, against declines of the minimum power generation capacity specified at the time of delivery. We believe our warranty periods are consistent with industry practice. Due to the long warranty period, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have shipped our products and recognized revenue. We began selling specialty solar modules and products in 2002 and only began selling standard solar modules in 2004. Any increase in the defect rate of our products would cause us to increase the amount of warranty reserves and have a corresponding negative impact on our operating results. Although we conduct quality testing and inspection of our solar module products, our solar module products have not been and cannot be tested in an environment simulating the up to 25-year warranty periods. Similarly, our recently developed UMgSi solar products, while silicon based and theoretically durable and viable as a reliable component for solar power products, are relatively new to the market, and subject to the same testing limitations as our other solar products. However, despite our research and development efforts, UMgSi solar products are relatively new to the market and issues related to these products that are currently unknown may surface in the future after extended use. These issues could potentially affect our market reputation and adversely affect our revenues, giving rise to potential warranty claims by our customers. As a result, we may be subject to unexpected warranty expense and associated harm to our financial results as long as 25 years after the sale of our products. Should these future warranty claims exceed accrued provisions, this may require us to adjust our financial forecasts and adversely affect our future earnings and operating results. Our future growth depends in part on our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments and to establish and maintain strategic relationships, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our market penetration and revenue growth. The solar power industry has only recently emerged as a high growth market and is currently experiencing shortages of its key component, high-purity silicon, due to rapid industry growth and demand. We believe it is critical that we continue to manage upstream silicon supply sources by, among other strategies, continuing to pursue strategic acquisitions and investments in solar cell and silicon raw materials suppliers to secure a guaranteed supply and better control the specifications and quality of the materials delivered and fostering strategic relationships, particularly with silicon feedstock suppliers, as we continue to develop our in-house solar component manufacturing abilities, and partnerships with solar wafer and solar cell suppliers. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to successfully make such strategic acquisitions and investments or establish strategic relationships with third parties that will prove to be effective for our business. Our inability in this regard could have a material adverse effect on our market penetration, our revenue growth and our profitability. Strategic acquisitions, investments and relationships with third parties could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information and loss of control of operations that are material to our business. Moreover, strategic acquisitions, investments and relationships may be expensive to implement and subject us to the risk of non-performance by a counterparty, which may in turn lead to monetary losses that materially and adversely affect our business. 18 Table of Contents We may not succeed in developing and maintaining a cost-effective solar cell manufacturing capability. We plan to continue expanding our in-house solar cell manufacturing capabilities to support our core solar module manufacturing business. We completed installation of our first four solar cell production lines in 2007, and annual solar cell production capacity from these production lines to reached 100MW by the end of 2007. However, we only have limited and recent operating experience in this area and we will face significant challenges in the solar cell business. Manufacturing solar cells is a highly complex process and we may not be able to produce solar cells of sufficient quality to meet our solar module manufacturing standards. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yield and in some cases cause production to be suspended or yield no output. We will need to make capital expenditures to purchase manufacturing equipment for solar cell production and will also need to make significant investments in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in solar power technology. The technologies, designs and customer preferences for solar cells change more rapidly, and solar cell product life cycles are shorter than those for solar modules. We may not be able to successfully address these new challenges. We will also face increased costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Any failure to successfully develop and maintain cost-effective solar cell manufacturing capability may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. In addition, although we intend to continue direct purchasing of solar cells and our toll manufacturing arrangements through a limited number of strategic partners, if we engage in the large scale production of solar cells it may disrupt our existing relationships with solar cell suppliers. One of our suppliers has raised concerns with us over our decision to implement internal solar cell product capabilities. If solar cell suppliers discontinue or reduce the supply of solar cells to us, either through direct sales or through toll manufacturing arrangements, and we are not able to compensate for the loss or reduction with our own manufacturing of solar cells, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may experience difficulty in developing our internal production capabilities for ingots and wafers and, if developed, in achieving acceptable yields and product performance as a result of manufacturing problems. We are in the process of developing our internal production capabilities for the manufacture of silicon ingots and wafers. We do not have prior operational experience in ingot and wafer production and will face significant challenges in developing this line of business, and may not be successful in doing so. The technology is complex, and will require costly equipment and the hiring of highly skilled personnel to implement. In addition, we may experience delays in developing these capabilities and in obtaining governmental permits required to carry on these operations. If we are able to successfully develop these production capabilities, we will need to continuously enhance and modify these capabilities in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the manufacturing process, disruptions in the supply of utilities or defects in the key materials and tools used to manufacture wafers can cause a percentage of the wafers to be rejected, which in each case, negatively affects our yields. We may experience production difficulties that cause manufacturing delays and lower than expected yields. Problems in our facilities may limit our ability to manufacture products, including but not limited to, production failures, construction delays, human errors, equipment malfunction or process contamination, which could seriously harm our operations. We may also experience floods, droughts, power losses and similar events beyond our control that would affect our facilities. A disruption to any step of the manufacturing process will require us to repeat each step and recycle the silicon debris, thus adversely affecting our yields. We may fail to successfully bring to market our new specialty solar modules and products, which may prevent us from achieving increased sales, margins and market share. We expect to continue to derive part of our revenues from sales of our new specialty solar modules and products and will increase our research and development expenses in connection with developing these products. If we fail to successfully develop our new specialty solar modules and products, we will likely be unable to recover the expenses that we will incur to develop these products and may be unable to increase our sales and market share and to increase our margins. Many of our new specialty solar modules and products have yet to receive market 19 Table of Contents acceptance, and it is difficult to predict whether we will be successful in completing their development or whether they will be commercially successful. We may also need to develop new manufacturing processes that have yet to be tested and which may result in lower production output. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights in connection with new specialty solar modules and products may undermine our competitive position. As we develop and bring to market new specialty solar modules and products, we may need to increase our expenses to protect our intellectual property and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position. We currently have three issued patents and seven patent applications pending in the PRC for products that make up a relatively small percentage of our net revenues. In addition, we maintain two trademark registrations in China, including “CSI” and its Chinese language version. We also have fourteen trademark applications pending in China. These afford only limited protection and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights as we develop new specialty solar modules and products may not be adequate. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation, which can be costly and divert management attention, may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We may be exposed to infringement, misappropriation or other claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Our success depends on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how and sell our solar module products without infringing the intellectual property or other rights of third parties. We do not have, and have not applied for, any patents for our proprietary technologies outside China, although we have sold, and expect to continue to sell, a substantial portion of our products outside China. The validity and scope of claims relating to solar power technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, we have not yet registered our trade name, “CSI,” outside of China, and we have fourteen trademark applications that are still pending in China. As a result, we could be subject to trademark disputes and may not be able to police the unauthorized use of our trade name. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. Additionally, we use imported equipment in our production lines, without supplier guarantees that our use does not infringe on third party intellectual property rights in China. This creates a potential source of litigation or infringement claims arising from such use. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. In addition, our competitors and other third parties may initiate legal proceedings against us or our employees that may strain our resources, divert our management attention and damage our reputation. For example, in March 2002, ICP Global Technologies Inc., or ICP Global, a manufacturer of solar power products, filed an action in the Superior Court of the Province of Quebec, Canada (Action No. 500-05 071241-028) against our vice president, Europe, Gregory Spanoudakis, and ATS Automation Tooling Systems Inc., or ATS. ICP Global subsequently amended the complaint to include us, our subsidiary, CSI Solartronics, and our founder, chairman, president and chief executive officer, Dr. Shawn Qu, as defendants. The amended complaint contends that all of the defendants jointly engaged in unlawful conduct and unfair competition in directing a business opportunity away from ICP Global to us. Although there have been no meaningful discovery, court filings or communications from the plaintiff on this matter since early 2004, we cannot assure you that ICP Global will not move forward with this case or that the litigation will not be determined adversely to us. We also cannot assure you that similar proceedings will not occur in the future. 20 Table of Contents We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs. We conduct significantly all of our operations through our subsidiaries, CSI Solartronics (Changshu) Co., Ltd., CSI Solar Manufacture Inc., CSI Solar Technologies Inc., CSI Central Solar Power Co., Ltd., CSI Cells Co., Ltd. and Changshu CSI Advanced Solar Inc. which are companies established in China. We rely on dividends paid by these subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay any dividends or other cash distributions that we may make to our shareholders, to service our debt and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. These subsidiaries are also required to set aside at least 10.0% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50.0% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, if any of these subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. If we are unable to attract, train and retain technical personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain technical personnel. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the solar power industry, are vital to our success. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business. Prior to 2007, the majority of our sales had been denominated in U.S. dollars. Since the beginning of 2007, the majority of our sales have been denominated in Euros, although we may readjust our denomination currency for sales revenue depending on market conditions. In 2007, we incurred a net foreign currency exchange gain, which was caused by the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Euro in the amount of $2.7 million. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur net foreign currency losses in the future. In addition, over the past three years, we have entered into multi-year supply contracts with a number of suppliers, under which, consistent with industry practice, we have made advance payments in exchange for specified quantities of silicon wafers. These contract prices are fixed in either Euro or Renminbi currency denominations. Our Renminbi costs and expenses primarily related to domestic sourcing of solar cells, wafers, silicon and other raw materials, toll manufacturing fees, labor costs and local overhead expenses. From time to time, we also have loan arrangements with Chinese commercial banks that are denominated in U.S. dollars and Renminbi. Therefore, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly among the U.S. dollar, Renminbi and Euro, affect our gross and net profit margins and could result in fluctuations in foreign exchange and operating gains and losses. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and we may incur net foreign currency losses in the future. To the extent that we are unable to pass along increased costs as a result of these exchange rate fluctuations to our customers, our profitability may be materially reduced. Product liability claims against us could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages. We, along with other solar module product manufacturers, are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims if the use of our solar module products results in injury. Since our products generate electricity, it is possible that users could be injured or killed by our products as a result of product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. We only shipped our first products in March 2002 and, because of our limited operating history, we cannot predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business. Although we carry limited product liability insurance, we may not 21 Table of Contents have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment if a successful claim is brought against us. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. Even if the product liability claims against us are determined in our favor, we may suffer significant damage to our reputation. Our founder, Dr. Shawn Qu, has substantial influence over our company and his interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. As of April 30, 2008, Dr. Shawn Qu, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, beneficially owned 13,672,263 common shares, or 50.0% of our outstanding share capital, excluding restricted shares granted but yet to be vested and subject to restrictions on voting, dividend rights and transferability. As a result, Dr. Qu has substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our common shares. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages, fines and suspensions of our business operations. We are required to comply with all national and local regulations regarding protection of the environment. As we expand our silicon reclamation program and research and development activities and move into solar ingot, solar wafer and solar cell manufacturing, we have begun to generate material levels of noise, waste water, gaseous wastes and other industrial wastes in the course of our business operations. Additionally, as we expand our internal solar components production capacity, our risk of facility incidents with a potential environmental impact also increases. Except for a failure to obtain certain approvals prior to starting production as disclosed in “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — We may face a potential risk for failing to comply with certain PRC legal requirements” we believe that we are in compliance with present environmental protection requirements and have all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business as it is presently conducted. However, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. For example, we increased our expenditures to comply with the European Union’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, which took effect in July 2006, by reducing the amount of lead and other restricted substances used in our solar module products. Furthermore, we may need to comply with the European Union’s Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive if we begin to sell specialty solar modules and products to customers located in Europe or if our customers located in other markets demand that our products be compliant. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. For instance, the Chinese Customs have recently increased their scrutiny on the import of scrap silicon over a concern that the recycling process for certain types of scrap silicon may cause environmental damage if not performed in a fully licensed factory and have subjected certain importations of recyclable silicon by some China-based companies, including us. See the section entitled “— If we are unable to secure an adequate and cost effective supply of solar wafers, solar cells or reclaimable silicon, our revenue, margins and profits could be adversely affected.” Any failure by us to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions of our business operations. We may not be successful in establishing our brand names among all consumers in important markets and the products we sell under our brand name may compete with the products we manufacture on an OEM basis for our customers. We sell our products primarily under our own brand name and also on an OEM basis for our customers. In certain markets our brand may not be as prominent as other more established solar power vendors, and there can be no assurance that the “CSI” brand name or any of our potential future brand names, will gain acceptance among 22 Table of Contents customers. Moreover, because the range of products we sell under our own brands and those we manufacture for our customers may be substantially similar, there can be no assurance that, currently or in the future, there will not be direct or indirect competition between products sold under the CSI brand, or any of our other potential future brands, and products that we manufacture on an OEM basis. This could negatively affect our relationship with these customers. If we grant employee share options, restricted shares or other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be adversely affected. We adopted a share incentive plan in 2006. As of December 31, 2007, we had granted 1,814,443 share options and 566,190 restricted shares under our share incentive plan. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment.” This statement, which became effective in our first quarter of 2006, prescribes how we account for share-based compensation, and may have an adverse or negative impact on our results of operations or the price of our common shares. SFAS No. 123R requires us to recognize share-based compensation as compensation expense in the statement of operations based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. This statement also requires us to adopt a fair value-based method for measuring the compensation expense related to share-based compensation. The additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of issuing share options or restricted shares under our share incentive plan. However, if we do not grant share options or restricted shares, or reduce the number of share options or restricted shares that we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. If we grant more share options or restricted shares to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with share-based compensation may adversely affect our net income. There have been historical deficiencies with our internal controls and there remain areas of our internal and disclosure controls that require improvement. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in the company’s annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. These rules apply to us for the first time in this annual report on Form 20-F. Although our management may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant rules differently from us. Prior to our initial public offering, we were a private company of limited operating history with limited accounting and other resources with which to adequately address our internal controls and procedures. As a result, in our past audits, our auditors had identified material weaknesses and deficiencies with our internal controls. In our audit for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, our auditors observed a number of weaknesses and deficiencies with respect to our internal controls under the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The material weaknesses identified by our independent registered public accounting firm include (i) insufficient accounting resources to properly identify adjustments, analyze transactions and prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and (ii) a lack of formal accounting policies and procedures for U.S. GAAP to ensure that our accounting policies and procedures are appropriately or consistently applied. Following the identification of these material weaknesses and other deficiencies, we have undertaken remedial steps and plan to continue to take additional remedial steps to address these material weaknesses and deficiencies and to further improve our internal and disclosure controls, including hiring additional staff, training our new and existing staff 23 Table of Contents and installing new enterprise resource planning, or ERP systems, in order to build up a unified and integrated database of our company. In addition, since the beginning of 2007, we have engaged an advisory firm to advise us about complying with requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and have hired an individual experienced in handling compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. However, if we are unable to remedy the existing material weaknesses and deficiencies in our internal and disclosure controls and procedures, or if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure controls in the future, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and as a result, investor confidence and the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and devote significant management time and efforts and other resources to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The material weaknesses identified by our independent registered public accounting firm have been remediated in 2007 by implementing additional control procedures and reinforcing existing controls. As a result, our independent registered public accounting firm concluded that we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct substantially all of our manufacturing operations through our subsidiaries in China. These subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 11.9% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and December 31, 2007. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As a portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, the revaluation in July 2005 and potential future revaluation has and could further increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms. In addition, as we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by our operating subsidiaries in China, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our common shares. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Certain portions of our revenue and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. If our revenues denominated in Renminbi increase or expenses denominated in Renminbi decrease in the future, we may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of 24 Table of Contents dividends declared, if any, in respect of our common shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiaries under most capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through equity financing. We may face a potential risk for failing to comply with certain PRC legal requirements. We are required to comply with the PRC Environmental Protection Law. For example, some of our subsidiaries are required to have their manufacturing facilities examined and approved by the PRC environmental protection authorities prior to the start of production. However, due to discrepancies between interpretation of the written law and its application to date, some of our subsidiaries, such as CSI Solartronics and CSI Solar Manufacturing, began production without obtaining such approvals. As a result, there is a risk that we may be ordered by the relevant environmental protection authorities to cease manufacturing at these operations and subjected to fines. We are currently negotiating with the relevant authorities to complete the examination and obtain the requisite approvals. We will need to undergo similar reviews and obtain approvals prior to launching our solar wafer manufacturing operations. There can be no assurance that we will obtain the necessary approvals for our manufacturing operations in a timely manner, if at all. We are required to comply with the PRC Construction Law and relevant regulations in the process of constructing our manufacturing facilities. For example, one of our PRC subsidiaries, CSI Cells, is required to have its recently constructed manufacturing facilities examined and accepted by relevant agencies before being put into service. However, CSI Cells began operating these facilities without completion of the required examination and acceptance procedure. We are currently working with the relevant parties to undergo the required examination and acceptance procedures. However, there is a risk that we may be ordered by the relevant construction administrative authorities to comply and be subject to fines. Two of our subsidiaries, CSI Luoyang and CSI Cells, commenced construction of their manufacturing facilities without obtaining a construction project planning permit or a construction permit, both of which are required under PRC Construction Law. We are currently cooperating with relevant government agencies to obtain these required permits. However, there is a risk that we may be ordered by the relevant construction administrative authorities to comply and be subject to fines. We also may be subject to actions by competent city planning administrative authorities. If our construction is deemed to have had a serious adverse impact on city planning, these authorities may order us to cease construction or to demolish these facilities within a short time period, or they may confiscate the illegal facilities outright. In addition, we adopted a share incentive plan in 2006 that grants employees, including some of our PRC employees, share options and restricted shares. We have not yet filed our share incentive plan with SAFE as required by the Implementation Rules of the Individual Foreign Exchange Administrative Measures, or SAFE Rules, and the subsequent Foreign Exchange Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Share Ownership Plan or Share Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, or Circular 78. Because the SAFE Rules and Circular 78 are newly issued, there is some uncertainty as to how they will be interpreted and implemented. However, if we can not timely fulfill the stated filing requirement, this could have an adverse effect on our ability to grant share options and restricted shares to our PRC employees. 25 Table of Contents Our business benefits from certain incentives under PRC tax law and regulations. The recent promulgation of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and, subsequently, the expiration of, or changes to those incentives, as well as the creation or resumption of certain types of taxation will result in our having to pay additional PRC taxes, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Under the former PRC Income Tax Law on Foreign Invested Enterprise and Foreign Enterprise, or the former Income Tax Law, a foreign invested enterprise, or FIE, in China was typically subject to an enterprise income tax, or EIT, at the rate of 30% on taxable income, and local income tax at the rate of 3% on taxable income. The PRC government provided various incentives to FIEs, including each of our PRC subsidiaries, to encourage the development of foreign investments. Such incentives included reduced tax rates and other measures. FIEs that were determined by PRC tax authorities to be manufacturing companies with authorized terms of operation of more than ten years were eligible for: (i) a two-year exemption from EIT in their first profitable year; and (ii) a 50% reduction in its applicable EIT rate in the succeeding three years. Based on these allowances, CSI Solartronics was initially entitled to a preferential EIT rate of 24% as a manufacturing enterprise located in a coastal economic development zone in Changshu. CSI Solartronics’ first profitable year was 2002 and thus its initial EIT preferential period ended in 2006. However, CSI Solartronics was granted a three year extension for the 50% reduction in its EIT rate by the Changshu tax authority. Thus, CSI Solartronics was subject to an EIT rate of 12%. CSI Solar Manufacturing was initially entitled to a preferential EIT rate of 15%. Following its first profitable year of operations in 2005, CSI Solar Manufacturing was exempt from EIT until 2006. Since then, it has been subject to an EIT rate of 7.5%. CSI Luoyang and CSI Cells became profitable in 2007. As such, both CSI Luoyang and CSI Cells were exempted from EIT until 2008 and will enjoy a 50% reduction in their applicable EIT rates from 2009 to 2011. CSI Solar Technologies and CSI Advanced are not currently profitable and have therefore not applied for preferential tax treatment. On January 1, 2008, the PRC’s new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the new EIT law, became effective. Under the new EIT law, both FIEs and domestic enterprises are now subject to an uniform EIT rate of 25%. Furthermore, dividends paid by an FIE to a non-resident shareholder on post-2007 earnings are now subject to a withholding tax of 10%, which may be reduced under any applicable bi-lateral tax treaty between China and the jurisdiction where the non-resident shareholder resides. In addition, for FIEs established prior to March 16, 2007 (the promulgation date of the new EIT law) that have not attained profitability by January 1, 2008 and, have therefore not begun to realize the preferential tax treatment available to them under the former income tax regime, the new EIT law provides that the preferential five-year tax holiday period will expire within five years. Since the tax holiday of our subsidiaries CSI Solar Technologies and CSI Advanced commenced January 1, 2008, under the new EIT Law, this preferential five-year tax holiday period will expire December 31, 2012. As the preferential tax benefits currently enjoyed by our PRC subsidiaries expire, their effective tax rates will increase significantly. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our subsidiaries CSI Solar Technologies and CSI Advanced, were not profitable prior to January 1, 2008. As a result, should these subsidiaries not attain profitability prior to January 1, 2013, they will lose their right to enjoy the preferential tax treatment available under the former Income Tax Law. In addition, dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries from pre-2008 earnings are exempt from Chinese dividend withholding tax even if such dividends are paid after January 1, 2008. Dividends paid on post-2007 earnings of are, however, subject to Chinese withholding tax (as described above). Under the new EIT law, an enterprise registered under the laws of a jurisdiction outside China may be deemed a Chinese tax resident and be subject to EIT upon its worldwide income, if its place of effective management is in China. The PRC State Council recently promulgated detailed implementation rules for the new EIT law. Because the new EIT law and related implementation rules are newly executed, there is uncertainty as to how they will be interpreted and implemented. Although we are carefully monitoring these legal developments and will timely adjust our effective income tax rate when necessary, we cannot assure you that the new EIT law will not cause material increases in the EIT rates applicable to us or our PRC subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Subject to the recently promulgated circular by the PRC State Council on the Implementation of the Grandfathering Preferential Policies under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (Decree No. [2007] 39), or the Implementation Circular, only a certain number of the preferential policies provided under the former Income Tax Law, regulations, and documents promulgated under the legal authority of the State Council are eligible to be grandfathered in accordance with Implementation Circular. Of the preferential policies enjoyed by our PRC subsidiaries, only the “two-year exemption” and “three-year half deduction” tax preferential policies are grandfathered by the Implementation Circular. As a result, commencing January 1, 2008, CSI Solartronics is subject to an EIT rate of 25% and CSI Solar Manufacturing is subject to an EIT rate of 12.5% until 2010, when it becomes subject to an EIT rate of 25%. Furthermore, there is a trend by the Chinese government to cancel or reduce its export tax refund policy. As our subsidiaries currently receive export tax refunds from the PRC government, we may face higher manufacturing costs as a direct or indirect result of such policy changes. In light of these tax changes, we are exploring preferential tax treatment and applicable policies, if any, available to us under the new EIT tax law. Despite any preferential tax treatment, we expect our manufacturing costs and EIT rate under the new EIT law to be higher than under the former Income Tax Law, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu or another epidemic or outbreak. From 2005 to 2007, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include our ability to travel or ship our products outside of China, as well as temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu or any other epidemic. Risks Related to Our Common Shares The market price for our common shares may be volatile. The market price for our common shares has been highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. During the period from November 9, 2006, the first day on which our common shares were listed on the Nasdaq Global Market, until June 2, 2008, the market price of our common shares ranged from $6.50 to $48.91 per share and the closing market price on June 2, 2008 was $41.03 per share. The market price for our common shares may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to a wide variety of factors, including the following: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other solar power companies; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, the Euro and RMB; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding common shares; and • sales or perceived sales of additional common shares. 27 Table of Contents In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our common shares in the public market could cause the price of our common shares to decline. Sales of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. As of April 30, 2008, we had 27,770,158 common shares outstanding, excluding restricted shares granted but yet to be vested and subject to restrictions on voting, dividend rights and transferability. In addition, the number of common shares outstanding and be available for sale will increase when the holders of our convertible notes receive common shares upon the conversion of their notes, or the holders of options to acquire our common shares receive our common shares upon the exercise of their options, subject to volume, holding period and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. To the extent these shares are sold into the market, the market price of our common shares could decline. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. Our articles of continuance contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common shares. The following provisions in our amended articles of continuance may deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by delaying or preventing a change of control of our company: • Our board of directors has the authority, without approval by the shareholders, to issue an unlimited number of preferred shares in one or more series. Our board of directors may establish the number of shares to be included in each such series and may fix the designations, preferences, powers and other rights of the shares of a series of preferred shares. • Our board of directors is entitled to fix and may change the number of directors within the minimum and maximum number of directors provided for in our articles. Our board of directors may appoint one or more additional directors to hold office for a term expiring no later than the close of the next annual meeting of shareholders, subject to the limitation that the total number of directors so appointed may not exceed one-third of the number of directors elected at the previous annual meeting of shareholders. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a corporation organized under the laws of Canada and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts, judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, we have been advised by 28 Table of Contents our Canadian counsel that a monetary judgment of a U.S. court predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws would likely be enforceable in Canada if the U.S. court in which the judgment was obtained had a basis for jurisdiction in the matter that was recognized by a Canadian court for such purposes. We cannot assure you that this will be the case. It is unlikely that an action could be brought in Canada in the first instance for civil liability under U.S. federal securities laws. There is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our common shares. Based on the market price of our common shares and the composition of our income and assets and our operations, we believe we were not a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2007. However, we must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year). Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The market value of our assets is generally determined by reference to the market price of our common shares, which may fluctuate considerably. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. person held a common share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. person. See “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other public-company related expenses. For example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and related rules and regulations implemented by SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market, have changed the corporate governance practices of public companies and have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of our future legal, accounting and other public-company related expenses, and the timing of such expenses. 