Item 1A. Risk Factors Investment in our common stock involves significant risks. If any of the risks discussed in this report occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risk factors set forth below are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not identified below, may also materially affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Some statements in this report, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” Our Current Operations, Debt Obligations and Development Plans Our independent auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. In their report dated March 13, 2009, our independent auditors stated that our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern. But they further stated that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern because of recurring losses from operations and a working capital deficiency. In addition, it was noted that the Company has not complied with certain covenants of loan agreements with banks and expects that future debt violations will occur at various dates in 2009 which will require waivers to be obtained from the lenders in order for the debt not to be considered in default. We continue to experience net operating losses and incur carrying costs on our development projects. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations, reduce our carrying costs, cure loan defaults, obtain necessary funding from outside sources including that generated through extensions of existing loans and generate net cash proceeds from the sale of non-core properties. There can be no assurances that such methods will prove successful. We may file for bankruptcy protection, or an involuntary petition for bankruptcy may be filed against us. We have approximately $328.2 million in indebtedness, of which $172.5 million matures in 2009. We may not be able to refinance or extend the maturities of our indebtedness as it matures. In addition, we have ceased making required payments and are in default under approximately $266.0 million of our indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance or extend our indebtedness, or if such indebtedness is accelerated due to our default, we will have insufficient liquidity to repay such indebtedness, and our available cash flow will be inadequate to maintain our operations. Under such circumstances, or if we believe such circumstances are likely to occur, we may pursue various forms of negotiated restructurings of our indebtedness, which may involve a recapitalization of our company and which may be required to occur under court supervision pursuant to a voluntary bankruptcy filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In addition, under certain circumstances our creditors may file an involuntary petition for relief under the Bankruptcy Code against us. Due to the possibility of such circumstances, we have begun active planning for such potential restructurings. If we file for bankruptcy protection, our business and operations will be subject to certain risks A bankruptcy filing by or against us, our operating partnership and certain of our subsidiaries (each referred to as a “filer”) would subject our business and operations to various risks, including but not limited to, the following: · A bankruptcy filing by or against a filer may adversely affect our business prospects and our ability to operate during the reorganization process. · The coordination of a bankruptcy filing and operating under protection of the bankruptcy court would involve significant costs, including expenses of legal counsel and other professional advisors. · We may have difficulty continuing to obtain and maintain contracts necessary to continue our operations and at affordable rates with competitive terms. · We may have difficulty maintaining existing and building new tenant relationships or pursuing our planned development projects. · Transactions by filers outside the ordinary course of business would be subject to the prior approval of the court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. · Filers may not be able to obtain court approval or such approval may be delayed with respect to motions made in the reorganization cases. 10 · We may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and associates through the process of reorganization, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees. · We may be unable to maintain or obtain sufficient financing sources for operations or to fund any reorganization plan and meet future obligations. · We may be unable to develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate one or more plans of reorganization that are acceptable to the bankruptcy court and our creditors, equity holders and other parties in interest. · The value of our common stock could be reduced to zero as result of a bankruptcy filing. We may be in default under certain of our financing agreements as we have failed to make required principal and interest payments. Our lenders may foreclose on the properties securing the loans, accelerate our loans or take other adverse actions which would have a material adverse affect on our ability to continue our business operations. We have not been able to extend or refinance three loans totaling $86.9 million that recently matured. As of March 13, 2009, we have not made the required regular interest and principal payments of $3.6 million on 26 out of 30 of our debt instruments totaling $266.0 million. Accordingly, we may be in default under these loans. Some of these lenders may choose to accelerate these loans and require us to either pay the outstanding loan amount, including all accrued but unpaid fees and interest, or foreclose on the properties securing the loans; provided that, regardless of any acceleration, we may have a right under California law to reinstate these loans by paying past due amounts and other fees and costs required by law or the respective loan documents. If we are not successful in negotiating with these lenders to prevent the foreclosure of certain of our properties or the acceleration of certain of our indebtedness, we may be forced to sell some of our properties on unfavorable terms to satisfy our debt obligations. If we are forced to repay debt earlier than we expected or if our properties are foreclosed upon to satisfy certain outstanding debt obligations, our ability to execute our development, acquisition and other business plans and our ability to meet our current liquidity needs, and therefore operate as a going concern, would be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may be in technical default under certain of our mortgages as a result of corporate restructuring activities that occurred at the time of our IPO. A significant number of the financing agreements we have entered into in connection with the acquisition of our properties contain provisions prohibiting a change of control of the borrower subsidiary and permitting the lenders under such agreements to accelerate payment of the related debt in the event the change of control provisions are triggered. A number of these provisions relating to aggregate indebtedness of $32.2 million were technically triggered in connection with our formation transactions at the time of our IPO due to the transfer of ownership of the borrower subsidiaries to the operating partnership. Of the $32.2 million of indebtedness, $12.5 million is maturing in 2009 and is included in the total of $172.5 million of debt due in 2009, which we will need to repay or refinance. Such lenders were notified of our formation transaction and they have since accepted debt service payments. However, no assurances can be given that one or more of the lenders under the affected financing agreements will not elect to accelerate payment of the related indebtedness on the basis of the formation transaction, particularly with respect to those loans that may also be accelerated on the basis of default in repayment. If we are forced to repay debt earlier than we expected or if our properties are foreclosed upon to satisfy certain outstanding debt obligations, our ability to execute our development, acquisition and other business plans and our ability to meet our current liquidity needs, and therefore operate as a going concern, would be materially adversely affected. We currently generate insufficient revenue from operations to pay our contractual obligations, and we will require significant amounts of cash to stabilize our portfolio, build out our development projects and satisfy our contractual obligations. We are a development company and must generate cash of approximately $28.0 million annually to fund our cash shortfalls from (i) operating activities, (ii) recurring investment activities such as carrying costs for interest payments, real estate taxes and other unfunded development expenditures and (iii) capital expenditures on existing rental properties. Assuming no development of any of our projects other than the project identified below, our cash requirements for 2008 include but are not limited to: approximately $38.7 million to fund the ongoing construction and no acceleration of loans under which we are in default of our 717 W. Ninth Street project, approximately $172.5 million to satisfy borrowings maturing in 2009, and approximately $3.5 million of planned but uncommitted capital improvements to our operating properties. 11 In addition, certain of our lenders may have the ability to accelerate indebtedness of ours totaling $32.2 million, $12.5 million of which is due in 2009 and is included in the $172.5 million of principal identified above. As a result of the foregoing needs and our combined annual negative cash flow from operating activities and capital and development expenditures, we will require substantial amounts of new capital to meet our contractual obligations in 2009, before any discretionary development. Our primary expected sources of new capital are from the extension of existing loan maturities and the sale of non-core properties. However, as noted in greater detail in the risk factor below, current market conditions have made it more difficult for us to extend loans or source new debt financings. As previously mentioned, we are currently in default on the majority of our outstanding indebtedness. Because of the equity and debt capital market crisis and our liquidity needs, our previously disclosed development and redevelopment plans and timelines have been adversely impacted. This impact will likely delay the point in time at which we could achieve profitability from operations. We have ceased all significant development activities other than the development of our 717 W. Ninth Street project and will continue to evaluate and adjust as appropriate our development and redevelopment plans and timelines (both commencement and completion dates) to correlate with adjustments in the availability of equity and debt capital and other current and changing market conditions. In addition, we are pursuing or considering actions that would generate cash sooner or delay or reduce our liquidity needs. These actions include selling certain of our rental properties and development projects, including foregoing portions of the approximately $3.5 million in uncommitted capital expenditures identified above, refocusing projects to produce more near-term income that require less capital, and entering into joint ventures in respect of our larger or more capital intensive development projects. These actions may reduce the potential long-term cash flow or value we otherwise could have recognized from our projects if we were able to execute on our development plans in place before the credit market crisis. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain loan maturity extensions or additional financing or that we will be able to obtain such on favorable terms or that we will be successful in taking any of the actions that we are considering to generate cash alternatives to borrowings or delay or reduce our liquidity needs. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining the capital we require on a timely basis, our business will be significantly harmed and our ability to operate as a going concern may be adversely affected. Mortgage debt obligations expose us to increased risk of property losses, and a significant portion of our mortgage debt is recourse to us. Incurring mortgage and other secured debt obligations increase our risk of property losses because defaults on indebtedness secured by properties may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and ultimately our loss of the property securing any loans for which we are in default. As previously mentioned, we are currently in default on the majority of our outstanding indebtedness. For tax purposes generally, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds. In addition, substantially all of our mortgage indebtedness is subject to guarantees provided by us and other affiliated individuals. As a result, in the event we default on a note payable secured by our real estate where we are a guarantor, we may remain liable to the lender for any difference between the amounts of the indebtedness we owe the lender and the amount of the successful bid at foreclosure, even if we lose our property collateral in a foreclosure action by the lender. Required payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash to operate or develop our projects and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations. We have borrowed and will be required to continue to borrow significant amounts in order to continue to operate and in connection with the development and redevelopment of our projects and any future acquisitions of properties. We may in the future be required to enter into joint venture agreements, sell certain assets, access the capital markets, or undertake a combination of the foregoing to finance our operations. 12 Our present and future level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our present and future debt agreements, including concessions that our lenders may extract from us in connection with any refinancing or extension, could have significant adverse consequences, including the following: • we may be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest, which reduces the amount available for development; • we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; • we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms; • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity, or upon acceleration upon an event of default, or may find that the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; • because a portion of our debt may bear interest at variable rates, an increase in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense; • we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our projects, possibly on disadvantageous terms; • we may experience increased vulnerability to economic and industry downturns, reducing our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions; • we may be restricted in our business activities and operations; • we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents or otherwise default on our obligations, which would entitle the lenders or mortgagees to accelerate our debt obligations, collect additional fees and interest and foreclose on our projects that secure their loans and receive an assignment of lease payments; and • our default under any mortgage loan or other debt with cross-default or cross-collateralization provisions, if we enter into such arrangements, could result in default on other indebtedness or result in the foreclosures of other projects we own. If the economic performance of any of our projects declines or we fail to develop and stabilize our projects as planned, our ability to service our debt could be adversely affected. The global financial crisis, and other events or circumstances beyond the control of the Company, may adversely affect our industry, business, results of operations, contractual commitments, and access to capital. What began initially as a “subprime” mortgage crisis has turned into an extraordinary United States and worldwide structural economic and financial crisis coupled with the rapid decline of the consumer economy. Recently, significant concerns over energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the United States mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a steep economic decline and fears of a deep and prolonged recession. Further, severe financial and structural strains on the banking and financial systems have led to significant lack of trust and confidence in the global credit and financial system. Consumers and money managers have liquidated equity investments and consumers and banks have held cash and other lower risk investments, resulting in significant and, in some cases, catastrophic declines in the equity capitalization of companies and unusual failures of financial institutions. Additionally, financial systems throughout the world are undergoing severe structural changes with banks much less willing to lend substantial amounts to other banks and borrowers. This extraordinary level of illiquidity has caused a significant decline in available credit from financial institutions and other lenders and the unprecedented declines in the market values of United States and foreign stock exchanges has led to significantly higher cost of debt and equity capital. The United States and foreign governments have taken extraordinary actions in an attempt to deal with the worldwide financial crisis and the severe decline in the consumer driven economy. These extraordinary actions, including the merger of large financial institutions and significant investment in and control by government bodies, has so far resulted in limited or no relief to the credit markets, and there is no assurance that their actions will ultimately be successful. The resulting and ongoing lack of available credit, lack of lending between financial institutions and other key lending sources (such as life insurance companies and pension funds), lack of lending to borrowers and further failures and consolidation of financial institutions could materially and adversely affect our tenants, key vendors and contractors, our ability to execute our development, acquisition and other business plans and our ability to meet our current liquidity needs, and therefore operate as a going concern. 13 Our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we or our operating partnership may incur. In addition, we do not have a policy limiting the amount of debt that we may incur. Our management and Board of Directors have discretion to increase the amount of our outstanding debt at any time without approval by our stockholders. If we incur additional indebtedness, we may experience increased difficulty in obtaining additional financing based on our current portfolio, refinancing existing debt on favorable terms or at all or repaying our outstanding indebtedness. The terms of any credit facility we may obtain in the future, or the terms of any indebtedness we are able to refinance or extend, may require us to maintain certain leverage ratios that may limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur or may contain covenants that limit our business and operational flexibility. Failure to obtain additional financing could impede our ability to grow and develop our business. Almost all of our projects are in the greater metropolitan Los Angeles area and depend upon the Southern California economy, which exposes us to more concentrated risk, including recession and other economic risks, than if our projects were in several geographic regions. Almost all of our projects are located in the greater metropolitan Los Angeles area, and a substantial majority of them are in downtown Los Angeles or nearby areas, which exposes us to more concentrated economic risks than if we owned projects in several geographic regions. Therefore, economic and other events that adversely affect this narrow geographic region will have a direct negative effect on our business and operations. We are susceptible to adverse developments in the Southern California region, such as adverse developments in the local industrial, commercial and residential real estate market, including market declines in real estate values and oversupply of or reduced demand for such space. We are also susceptible to business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, changing demographics, increased telecommuting, terrorist attacks, earthquakes and other natural disasters, infrastructure quality issues, California state budgetary constraints and priorities, increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with government regulations or increased regulation and other factors. The California economy, in comparison to other parts of the country, is negatively affected to a greater extent by changes and downturns in certain industries, including the entertainment, manufacturing, high technology and defense industries and in Pacific Rim trading activities. Any adverse developments in the economy or real estate market in Los Angeles or Southern California in general would adversely affect us. We cannot assure you of the continued growth of the Southern California economy or the national economy or our future growth rate. Changing market conditions, especially in the greater metropolitan Los Angeles area may adversely impact our ability to sell or rent residential units at expected prices or rents, or at all. There will be a significant amount of time before we can develop our residential projects and offer units available for sale or rent. The market rental value of a unit in a proposed residential project can vary significantly during this time due to changing market conditions. Prices of residential units and sales and rental activities in the Los Angeles market will have a large impact on our profitability because we conduct substantially all of our business in this market. These prices or rents could decline from time to time for market-specific reasons, including adverse economic conditions due to, among other things, the failure or decline of key industries and employers affecting the local, regional or national economies. If market conditions were to deteriorate, we may need to sell or rent residential units at lower prices or rates than we anticipate, or attempt to convert any for-sale units to for-rent units, and may not be able to develop or complete projects as proposed. We may also need to take write-downs of our unit inventories and land holdings if market values decline. The Los Angeles market continues to exhibit signs of decreasing consumer demand, and sales of new and existing homes have declined. If the prices of residential units or sales or rental activity decline in the key market in which we operate, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and, as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected New developments, redevelopments and acquisitions may fail to perform as we expect. We focus our business on the acquisition and redevelopment of commercial and residential projects. In deciding whether to acquire, develop or redevelop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected sale or resale value, or occupancy and rental rates, as applicable. If the property is unable to achieve the expected resale price, or occupancy and rental rates, as applicable, depending on our investment strategy for a particular property, it may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. When we acquire a property, we often reposition or redevelop that property with the goal of increasing profitability. Our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove inaccurate. Additionally, we may acquire unimproved land properties not leased or not fully leased, and any cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property until the property is improved or more fully leased. 14 The development and redevelopment of projects are highly speculative activities, and our success depends on our ability to redevelop a majority of our portfolio and develop many new projects, which may make investing in our stock riskier than investing in the stock of real estate companies that own stabilized properties occupied by tenants with long-term leases. As a primary part of our business, we develop new projects and redevelop existing projects. We plan to develop or redevelop a substantial majority of our portfolio. Many of our projects are several years away from commencing. All of our projects are subject to national, regional and local economic changes, and localized demographic and population shifts, each of which could affect the demand for the specific types of real estate improvements we anticipate building. In addition, the financial success of each project depends on our ability to plan and execute the project and, in many cases, on our success in securing adequate capital to fund the development or redevelopment. Before a project can generate any revenues, material expenditures must be incurred to acquire land, obtain governmental approvals and construct significant portions of project infrastructure and sales facilities. It generally may require several years for a development or redevelopment project, particularly a high-rise residential project, to achieve cumulative positive cash flow. If we are unable to develop and market our projects successfully and to generate positive cash flows from these operations in a timely manner, it will have a material adverse effect on us. More specifically, in connection with the development of new projects and the redevelopment of existing projects, we will be subject to risks such as: • deteriorating credit markets, which challenge our ability to obtain financing for our projects on favorable terms, or at all; • cyclical overbuilding; • cost overruns, including increases in the cost of materials because of increased global demand (particularly in the price of steel, lumber, drywall, copper and concrete, which are significant components of construction costs); • difficulties in obtaining or failures to obtain land use entitlements, occupancy and other government permits and authorizations; • delays because of a number of factors, including unforeseen circumstances; • changes in political views toward the proposed development, redevelopment or use; • governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project; • strikes, labor disputes or supply disruptions; • condemnation and taking of any of our projects by the government under eminent domain; • shortages of qualified trade workers and building materials; • development costs for projects not pursued to completion; • earthquakes, floods, mudslides, fires, bad weather and other acts of God; • design and construction defects and unforeseen or underestimated environmental and engineering problems; • contractor and subcontractor disputes and mechanics’ liens; and • lack of income until leasing or sale. Any or all of these risks could have an adverse affect on our business, operations, cash flow and ability to increase values for our stockholders. Real estate companies that own stabilized, fully developed properties are substantially less affected by many of the specific risks noted above including, but not limited to declining credit market conditions, failure to obtain land use entitlements, design and development cost overruns, construction delays, and contractor and subcontractor disputes. Because these types of real estate companies are less susceptible to these risks, investing in the stock of those companies may be less risky than buying our stock. 15 We face competition in the Southern California market, which may decrease or prevent increases in the occupancy and rental rates of our projects, and may decrease our profitability from sales of our projects. Our projects are located in areas that have other warehouse and industrial, commercial, residential and mixed-use projects, both developed and undeveloped, which may be more attractive to potential tenants or purchasers. Competition from other properties may adversely affect our ability to lease or sell our projects and to increase sales prices or the rentals charged on our leases. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose existing or potential tenants, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge or to offer more substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options in order to retain tenants when our tenants’ leases expire. We also expect competition in the acquisition of existing properties and the development of new projects. This competition could increase prices for properties of the type that we would like to pursue. As a result, we may not be able, or have the opportunity, to make suitable investments on favorable terms in the future. We compete in our markets with numerous national, regional and local residential builders. This competition with other builders could reduce the scope of our residential projects, or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume at particular residential projects. Our residential projects will also compete with resales of existing used or foreclosed homes and residential units, housing speculators and available rental housing. Increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the region where we operate could decrease demand for new residential units and increase cancellations of sales contracts in backlog. Many of our redevelopment projects require municipal authorities to approve or change land use entitlements, environmental certifications pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act and other permits to allow these projects to proceed in certain areas so that our projects comply with the land use laws in effect. Nineteen of our projects are proposed for redevelopment. Substantially all may require city and other governmental authorities to approve or change land use entitlements, environmental certifications pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act and other permits to allow our projects to proceed. Land use laws are complex and the approval process is subject to delays, the discretion of individual governmental bodies and the political process. There is no guarantee that land use entitlements and other approvals needed for our projects to proceed will ultimately be approved. If we fail to obtain any required land use approvals or entitlements, it would harm our ability to complete certain redevelopment projects. We may be unable to renew leases or find other lessees, and a majority of our portfolio’s annualized base rents are set to expire before the end of 2009. We are subject to the risks that, upon expiration, leases may not be renewed, the space subject to such leases may not be relet or the terms of renewal or reletting, including the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than expiring lease terms. As of December 31, 2008, leases representing approximately 37.9% of the square footage of our owned projects are month-to-month leases, and an additional approximately 45.8% of the square footage of our owned projects was available for lease (including space available for lease at rental and development projects). In addition, leases constituting a substantial portion of the annualized base rent from our owned projects are scheduled to expire before the end of 2009. Leases scheduled to expire before the end of 2009 and existing month-to-month leases, when taken together, constitute approximately 76.7% of our owned portfolio’s annualized base rent, or approximately $17.5 million out of $22.8 million. If we are unable to promptly renew a significant number of expiring leases or to promptly relet the space covered by such leases, or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting were significantly lower than the then current rates, our business would be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, we may incur significant costs to renew expiring leases or lease vacant space. Any of these factors could cause a decline in our lease revenues, which would harm our profitability. The lease for our largest tenant, American Apparel, expired on December 31, 2008 and they are now considered a month-to-month tenant. As of March 13, 2009, American Apparel is a rent paying tenant based on the terms of the expired lease and we are currently in the process of negotiating a new lease with this tenant. There are no assurances that we will be successful in procuring a new lease with American Apparel. In the future, we may offer for-sale residential units and potential customers may be unwilling or unable to purchase our residential units at times when mortgage-financing costs are high or during periods of challenging credit market conditions. The majority of the potential customers for units in our residential projects that may be for sale in the future will finance their purchases through third-party lenders. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates and by decreases in the availability of mortgage financing as a result of declining customer credit quality or other issues. Recently, the residential mortgage market in the United States has experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions that may adversely affect the ability of borrowers to obtain mortgage financing. Because of higher than expected rates of delinquencies, many lending institutions have imposed more stringent loan underwriting standards and less favorable loan contract terms and conditions. Because of these market conditions, demand for our units may decrease as it may be more difficult for potential buyers of our residential units to obtain the financing necessary to purchase a unit. 16 We are subject to high taxes levied on California real estate, and any increases in our property taxes, including through the repeal of laws that establish maximum property tax rates, could adversely affect our business. Each of our projects is subject to real and personal property taxes. These taxes on our projects may increase as tax rates change and as the projects are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities, and we will experience reassessments as a result of the contribution of our projects to us in connection with our IPO and formation transaction. In addition, owners of California property are subject to particularly high taxes. If property taxes increase, our business would be adversely affected. Voters in the State of California previously passed Proposition 13, which generally limits annual real estate tax increases to 2% of assessed value per annum. From time to time, various groups have proposed repealing Proposition 13, or providing for modifications such as a “split roll tax,” whereby commercial property, for example, would be taxed at a higher rate than residential property. Given the uncertainty, it is not possible to quantify the risk to us of a tax increase or the resulting financial impact of any increase, but any tax increase would reduce the amount of cash available for new investment or distribution to stockholders. We may assume unknown liabilities in connection with the acquisition of properties. We have historically acquired real estate that may be subject to existing liabilities, some of which may be unknown at the time we acquired the property. Unknown liabilities might include liabilities for cleanup or remediation of environmental conditions, claims of tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the entities prior to our acquisition of the properties (that had not been asserted or threatened prior to these acquisitions), tax liabilities and accrued but unpaid liabilities whether incurred in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Our recourse with respect to such liabilities will be limited. The assumption of existing liabilities in connection with the acquisition of our properties could have a material adverse affect on our operations and our ability to develop or redevelop such properties. We may have to seek legal remedies to remove existing tenants from projects that we have planned for redevelopment, which would increase our investment costs, decrease our profitability for those projects and delay completion of the redevelopment. The execution of our business strategy depends on redevelopment and repositioning of some of our existing projects. Current tenants of those projects may refuse to vacate the premises to allow the redevelopment work to commence. Some tenants may have no legal right to holdover. We take legal action where appropriate to remove holdover tenants so that our projects proceed. Any negotiations or legal action with respect to current tenants of redevelopment projects would increase our costs related to the project and delay its completion. We may make errors in determining the creditworthiness of our current or prospective tenants. We expect that substantially all of our leasing revenues will be derived from tenants who do not have publicly available credit ratings and that a substantial majority of our leasing revenues will be derived from tenants with very limited credit histories. For some of these tenants, we expect to analyze the tenants’ credit by reviewing available financial and other data. We may misinterpret or incorrectly analyze available credit data. These mistakes may, in part, lead us to make investments we would not have otherwise made and may ultimately result in losses on one or more of our investments. Any tenant failures to make lease payments when due or tenant bankruptcies could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease and, particularly in the case of a large tenant, in material losses to us. We depend on tenants, and their failure to pay rent could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our results of operations and cash flow would be adversely affected if tenants are unable to pay their rent or otherwise meet their obligations to us. In the event of default by tenants, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. In addition, at any time, a tenant of one of our projects may seek the protection of bankruptcy laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such tenant’s lease. Upon a default, we may not be able to relet the space at all or on terms that are as favorable to us as the defaulted lease. We are an accrual basis taxpayer and will have to include in income and pay tax on rent that has accrued even though it has not been paid by a tenant. In addition, phantom income tax liability could result for our company to the extent cash profits are reinvested or expended on non-deductible items such as the payment of principal on debt. The inability to depend on tenants, their default and an inability to relet the space on reasonable terms, if at all, would adversely affect our operations and our cash flows. 17 Our tenants may conduct activities at our projects that reduce the value of our projects. Because we have limited control over the operations and activities of our tenants, they may conduct certain activities that damage the space they lease at one of our projects or cause a project to be viewed in a negative light. Under our lease documents, our ability to control the activities of tenants is limited and, in the event our tenants damage our projects, we may not be able to recoup losses from them, either due to economic or contractual reasons. These activities could reduce the value of the projects in which they lease space, which could reduce the value of our investment, impair our ability to repay debt on the projects or render it more difficult for us to sell the project or re-lease the space to a different tenant, any of which would harm our operations and cash flows. Our Company and Management Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our senior executive officers to manage our day-to-day operations and strategic business direction. In addition, many of our senior executive officers have strong industry reputations, which aid us in identifying acquisition and borrowing opportunities, having such opportunities brought to us, and negotiating with tenants and sellers of properties. The loss of the services of these key personnel could diminish our relationships with lenders, existing and prospective tenants, property sellers and industry personnel and harm our business and our prospects. All management rights are vested in our Board of Directors, and our stockholders have limited rights. Our Board of Directors is responsible for our management and strategic business direction, and our senior executive officers are responsible for our day-to-day operations. Our major policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions, leasing, financing, growth, operations, debt limitation and distributions, will be determined by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time without a vote of our stockholders. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Richard Meruelo, has pledged his shares of our common stock as collateral for a loan. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Richard Meruelo, has pledged his shares of our common stock as collateral for a loan, the proceeds of which were utilized by Mr. Meruelo to purchase 3,000,000 shares of our common stock in our initial public offering at the public offering price. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders would be entitled to declare the loan immediately due and payable and enforce on the collateral. Mr. Meruelo informed us that he previously reduced the principal balance of the loan from the proceeds of the sale of personal real estate that is not a company-owned asset, but that the loan has matured, and the lender has declared a default for nonpayment of the remaining outstanding balance of the loan. Accordingly, the lender may elect to accelerate the loan and enforce on the pledged shares, thereby transferring a controlling voting interest in our company to another party or substantially depress our stock price as a result of sales of the pledged shares. See “—Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure—Messrs. Meruelo and Maddux have a controlling vote in certain matters as a result of their ownership interest in us.” A copy of Mr. Meruelo’s loan agreement is available publicly as an exhibit to a Schedule 13D Mr. Meruleo has filed with the SEC. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure We did not obtain appraisals of our projects that were contributed to us by our predecessor business in connection with our IPO, and the consideration given by us in exchange for them was not negotiated at arm’s length and may have exceeded their fair market value or the value that would have been determined by third-party appraisals. We acquired almost all of our current projects pursuant to a contribution agreement and merger agreements with entities owned and controlled by our founders. We did not obtain any third-party appraisals of our projects, nor any independent third-party valuations or fairness opinions in connection with our formation transactions. The terms of the contribution agreement and merger agreements relating to our projects were not negotiated on an arm’s length basis. The terms of these agreements and the valuation methods used to determine the value of the projects were determined by our management team, including Messrs. Meruelo and Maddux, who received total consideration in the formation transactions of 39,652,757 shares of our common stock, excluding shares that we have a contingent obligation to issue, and $2.8 million in cash as a result of the contributions and mergers. As a result, the consideration given by us in exchange for the entities owning our projects in the formation transactions may have exceeded their fair market value. 18 Messrs. Meruelo and Maddux have a controlling vote in certain matters as a result of their ownership interests in us. Messrs. Meruelo and Maddux received shares of our common stock in our formation transactions, acquired additional shares in our IPO, and were issued a portion of the shares that we had a contingent obligation to issue, that collectively constitute a majority of our voting stock. Mr. Meruelo by himself indirectly holds 45.3% of our voting stock (As noted above under “—Our Company and Management—Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Richard Meruelo, has pledged his shares of our common stock as collateral for a loan,” Mr. Meruelo’s loan is in default. The lender may elect to enforce on the pledged shares and sell the shares to a buyer, which buyer would then hold and be able to vote such shares.). Messrs. Meruelo and Maddux may have interests that differ from those of our public stockholders and may accordingly vote as stockholders in ways that may not be consistent with the interests of our public stockholders. This voting control over certain matters, including decisions relating to the election of our Board of Directors, may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, or could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company. We may experience conflicts of interest with our directors and officers relating to their duties owed both to us and to the limited partners of our operating partnership, their ownership interests in our operating partnership and their interests in properties that may compete for the same tenants as our projects. Our directors and officers may have conflicting duties because, in their capacities as our directors and officers, they have a duty to us and our stockholders and, in our capacity as general partner of our operating partnership, they have a fiduciary duty to limited partners. These conflicts of interest could lead to decisions that are not in the best interest of our stockholders. Conflicts may arise when the interests of our stockholders and the limited partners of the operating partnership diverge, particularly in circumstances in which there may be an adverse tax consequence to the limited partners, such as upon the sale of certain projects contributed to our operating partnership or the repayment of indebtedness below certain levels. We may also experience conflicts of interest with several members of our senior management team who have become limited partners in our operating partnership through the receipt of LTIP units granted under our 2007 Equity Incentive Plan. Messrs. Meruelo and Maddux own interests in projects that were not contributed to us. We may experience conflicts of interest with these members of our senior management team to the extent that these properties compete for the same tenants or customers as our properties or divert their attention away from our business. A change in control may affect our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards. If we have a change in control, as defined in Section 382 of the Code, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future cash taxes may be reduced or eliminated. The significant stock activity we have recently experienced, the possibility of our issuing additional equity (including in exchange for outstanding indebtedness) to address our liquidity needs and the fact that Mr. Meruelo has pledged his shares of stock in our company as collateral for a loan that is now in default all increase the risk of this provision affecting us in the future. We are subject to corporate income tax, which may reduce the amount of funds we have to invest and to pay to you as dividends and we have substantial built-in taxable income in our assets. We are taxed as a regular C corporation for federal income tax purposes. As a result, our taxable income is subject to the federal corporate income tax, which is 35.0% currently. We are also subject to state and local corporate income taxes. As a result of our formation transactions, we have substantial built-in taxable income in our assets. As of January 30, 2007, the estimated inherent gain in the assets contributed to us in our formation transactions was $429.4 million. The federal, state and local taxes we will pay on our earnings including the tax on the inherent gain (if and when we dispose of those assets in a taxable transaction), will reduce any funds we may have to invest or to pay to you as dividends. We are a holding company with no direct operations and rely on funds received from our operating partnership to pay liabilities. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our operating partnership. We do not have, apart from our ownership of our operating partnership, any independent operations. We rely on distributions from our operating partnership to meet our debt service and other obligations, including tax liability on taxable income allocated to us from our operating partnership (which might not make distributions to the company equal to the tax on such allocated taxable income). As a result, we will rely on distributions from our operating partnership to pay any dividends we might declare on our common stock. The ability of subsidiaries of the operating partnership to make distributions to the operating partnership, and the ability of our operating partnership to make distributions to us in turn, will depend on their operating results and on the terms of any loans that encumber the projects owned by them. Such loans may contain lockbox arrangements, reserve requirements, financial covenants and other provisions that restrict the distribution of funds. In the event of a default under these loans, the defaulting subsidiary would be prohibited from distributing cash. 19 In addition, because we are a holding company, your claims as stockholders are structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of our operating partnership and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, the assets of our operating partnership and its subsidiaries will be able to satisfy the claims of our stockholders only after all of our operating partnership’s and its subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. A significant portion of the indebtedness of the subsidiaries of our operating partnership is secured by real property. As of March 13, 2009, we own an estimated 99.6% interest in the operating partnership, which may, in connection with our acquisition of additional properties or otherwise, issue additional common units of limited partnership interest. Such issuances would reduce our ownership in our operating partnership. Our stockholders will not directly own common units of limited partnership interest of the operating partnership and do not have any voting rights with respect to any such issuances or other partnership level activities of the operating partnership. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our stockholders to sell their shares at a favorable price. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the then market price. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that: • vacancies on our Board of Directors may only be filled by the remaining directors; • only the Board of Directors can change the number of directors; • our directors may adopt, amend or repeal any of our bylaws; • the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the total votes eligible to be cast in the election of directors is required for stockholders to adopt, amend or repeal any of our bylaws; • there is no cumulative voting for directors; • our stockholders are not permitted to act by written consent; and • stockholders must comply with advance notice procedures to make proposals to be brought before stockholder meetings, including nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors. In addition, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the Board of Directors to issue up to 50 million shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which will be determined at the time of issuance by our Board of Directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights, including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No shares of preferred stock are outstanding as of the filing of this report. The issuance of any preferred stock, however, could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change in control, thereby preserving the current stockholders’ control of our comp Finally, we are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, described above, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control and prevent changes in our management, even if these events would be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in our stockholders’ best interests. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the extent permitted by Delaware law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each director or officer who has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made a party by reason of his or her service to us. We may also be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. In addition, our certificate of incorporation limits the liability of our directors and officers for money damages, except for liability resulting from any breach of the duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders, acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of the law, or any transaction in which an improper personal benefit was derived. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist. 20 Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Our real estate investments are relatively illiquid and their values may decline. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Therefore, we are limited in our ability to reconfigure our real estate portfolio in response to economic changes, including our current liquidity crisis. Our ability to sell these projects and the prices we receive on their sale will be affected by the number of potential buyers, the number of competing properties on the market and other national and local economic and market conditions, as well as whether the project is leased and if it is leased, the terms of the lease. Our ability to sell these projects may also depend on changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing as well as ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older buildings. In addition, the current state of the equity and debt capital markets may force us to extend sales and leasing revenue from our properties from earlier periods to subsequent periods thereby not eliminating our negative cash flow as quickly as we anticipate. Finally, our current financial difficulties may encourage potential purchasers to offer less attractive terms for our properties. As a result, we may be unable to sell our projects for an extended period of time without incurring a loss. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or make improvements before a project can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements and as a result our ability to sell the property could be limited. The costs of compliance with or liabilities under environmental laws may harm our business. Our projects may be subject to significant environmental liabilities. An owner of real property can face strict, joint and several liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances on the property. We may face liability regardless of: • our knowledge of the contamination; • the timing of the contamination; • the cause of the contamination; or • the party responsible for the contamination of the property. There may be unknown or underestimated environmental liabilities associated with our projects. Most of our projects are on or are adjacent to or near other properties upon which others, including former owners or operators or tenants of the properties, have engaged in or may in the future engage in activities that may release petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. For instance, some of our projects are at locations where former businesses conducted industrial and other operations that involved the use, storage or the release of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances or generated hazardous waste. Naturally occurring conditions, such as the presence of methane may also result in environmental liabilities. Certain projects have on-going assessment and clean-up efforts or have not yet fully identified or quantified environmental contamination or potential investigation or clean-up costs. The presence of or contamination resulting from petroleum products, or other hazardous or toxic substances on a project or the failure to properly remediate them may cause a decline in the value of that property and may adversely affect our ability to develop, sell or rent our projects, and we may incur substantial remediation or increased development costs. In addition, persons exposed to petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances at our projects may sue us for personal injury damages. We must also comply with a variety of local, state and federal environmental statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations affecting the development process, including with respect to petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, endangered species, air quality, water supply, biology, archeology and other potential environmental impacts or effects. These environmental laws sometimes result in delays, cause us to incur additional costs, or severely restrict land development and building activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. For example, the presence of petroleum products or hazardous or toxic substances may limit a project’s use or prevent us from selling residential units or for-sale commercial units, and we may also be liable, under applicable laws and regulations or as a result of lawsuits brought by governmental and private parties, for liabilities relating to contamination on projects that we have sold in the past. Environmental laws are subject to changing interpretations and amendments, and new laws are frequently adopted. We cannot predict the impact of any new or amended environmental laws. 21 Our projects may contain or develop harmful mold or contain asbestos or lead, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing, as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our projects could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected project, which would reduce our operating results. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from our tenants, their guests, employees of ours or of our construction contractors, purchasers of our projects and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance, removal and disposal of certain building materials, including asbestos and lead-based paint. For instance, laws may require that owners or operators of certain buildings containing asbestos (1) properly manage and maintain the asbestos, (2) notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and (3) undertake special precautions, including removal and disposal, or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. In addition, lead-based paint must also be managed, abated and disposed of according to the laws. Such laws may impose civil and criminal fines and penalties on developers and building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements. In addition, third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to hazardous substances, such as asbestos or lead. Future terrorist attacks in the United States, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of terrorism or war, whether in the United States or abroad, may result in declining economic activity and reduced demand for our projects. A decrease in demand would make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our projects at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Terrorist activities also could directly impact the value of our projects through damage, destruction or loss. To the extent that our tenants are impacted by future attacks, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to honor obligations under their existing leases. These types of events also may adversely affect the markets in which our securities trade. Any one of these events may cause a decline in the demand for real estate, delay the time in which our new, renovated or redeveloped projects reach stable occupancy, increase our operating expenses due to increased physical security and insurance costs for our projects and limit our access to capital or increase our cost of raising capital. We may experience uninsured and underinsured losses. We maintain comprehensive insurance on each of our projects, including liability, fire and extended coverage, of the type and amount we believe are customarily obtained in the industry. There are no assurances that such coverage will continue to be available at reasonable rates. Various types of catastrophic losses, like earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, environmental or pollution damage and losses from terrorist activities, may not be insurable or may not be economically insurable or may be subject to insurance coverage limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. We do not generally obtain terrorism, earthquake or flood insurance on our projects. We sometimes, but not always, obtain environmental insurance. Future lenders may require such insurance, which would result in substantial additional expense; and our failure to obtain such insurance could constitute a default under loan agreements. All of our projects are located in Southern California, an area especially subject to earthquakes, and we do not carry any earthquake insurance. Because most of our projects are located within downtown Los Angeles, an earthquake there could materially damage, destroy or impair our projects as well as the use by tenants of all of these projects or harm our ability to develop, redevelop or sell affected projects and none of these damages or increased costs would be covered by insurance. A catastrophic earthquake centered in the downtown area of Los Angeles could harm our business as a consequence of property damage sustained in the earthquake, the negative impact thereof on the local economy, or both. In the event of a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a project, as well as the anticipated future revenue from that particular project. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the project. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a project after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed project. The insurance policies contain standard exclusions applicable to, inter alia, losses related to pollution, asbestos, mold/fungus, earth movement and water. Also, some of the policies have been issued by surplus lines insurers (i.e., insurers who are not licensed by the State of California). Some rights and limitations applicable to coverage under policies issued by insurers licensed by the State of California are not applicable to coverage under policies issued by surplus lines insurers. For example, a surplus lines insurer does not participate in any of the insurance guarantee funds created under California law. Therefore, these funds would not be available to pay any claims in the event a surplus lines insurer becomes insolvent or is otherwise unable to pay a covered claim. 22 We are subject to substantial legal and regulatory requirements including compliance with fire, safety and other regulations regarding the development, redevelopment and operation of our projects and the protection of the environment, which may require us to make unanticipated expenditures, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some projects. Our development and redevelopment business is heavily regulated and subject to increasing local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, resource protection, environmental impacts, building design, construction and similar matters. These regulations often provide broad discretion to governmental authorities that regulate these matters, which can result in unanticipated delays or increases in the cost of a specified project or a number of projects in particular markets. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers’ health and safety. We generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and complete our development and construction projects. Such permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. In particular, we are required to obtain the approval of numerous governmental authorities regulating matters such as permitted land uses, levels of density, the installation of utility services, zoning, building standards and environmental protection. Our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our obligation to ensure that our employees, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could delay our projects, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict our proposed projects. Our business is conducted in California, which is one of the most highly regulated and litigious states in the country. Therefore, our potential exposure to losses and expenses due to new laws, regulations or litigation may be greater than other real estate companies with a less significant California presence. In addition, our projects are subject to various other federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. Local regulations, including municipal or local ordinances and zoning restrictions, may restrict the use of our properties or otherwise affect our projects and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations with respect to our projects, including prior to undertaking renovations of any of our existing projects or acquiring a new project. If we fail to comply with various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. These regulations may cause us to incur additional costs and may lead to significant delays in our development projects, which could adversely affect us. In addition, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may require us to make unintended expenditures. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. The ADA and a number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may require modifications to our projects or restrict certain further renovations of the projects, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA or these other laws could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and an order to correct any non-complying feature, which may require substantial capital expenditures. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our projects to determine our compliance, and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other similar legislation. If one or more of our projects is not in compliance with the ADA or other similar legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the non-complying projects into compliance. Risks Related to the Market for our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, adversely affecting our stockholders. We consummated our IPO in January 2007. Since that time, the market price of and trading volume in our common stock has fluctuated and caused significant price variations to occur. These price variations may continue and the price of our common stock may continue to fall. If the market price of our common stock declines, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: 23 • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or payment of dividends, or the lack thereof; • changes in estimates of our earnings; • general market and economic conditions; • redemptions of common units of our operating partnership; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness that we may incur or any deterioration in our ability to obtain financing at all or on attractive terms; • future issuances of our common or preferred stock; • publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; • additions or departures of key management personnel; or • changes in market valuations of similar companies. The closing price for our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market has recently remained below $1.00. If the closing price of our common stock continues to remain below $1.00, our stock may be delisted from the National Global Market, which may reduce any liquidity in our stock and further depress its market price. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities (including any exchanges of equity for outstanding indebtedness), which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt or additional offerings of equity securities, including commercial paper, senior or subordinated notes, convertible notes and series of preferred stock or common stock, and including issuing equity securities in exchange for our outstanding indebtedness. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock, if any, and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments or both that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. Future sales of our common stock could have an adverse effect on our stock price. As of March 13, 2009, there are approximately 88,076,987 shares of our common stock outstanding and 867,835 LTIP units in our operating partnership, which are exchangeable into shares of our common stock on a one-to-one basis, outstanding. We expect to issue an additional 20,000 LTIP units later in 2009. We cannot predict whether future issuances of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares for resale in the open market will decrease the market price of our common stock. Our directors and officers are able to sell an aggregate total of 45,216,287 shares of our common stock (excluding LTIP units), subject to restrictions imposed by federal securities laws and subject to vesting provisions applicable to 10,000 of those shares. Sales of substantial numbers of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Mr. Meruelo has pledged substantially all of his shares of our common stock as collateral for a loan, and the loan is in default. Accordingly, the lender may enforce on the collateral and sell substantial amounts of our common stock. We may issue from time to time additional common stock or common units of our operating partnership convertible into common stock in connection with the acquisition of properties, and we may grant demand or piggyback registration rights in connection with these issuances. 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments On March 3, 2009, we received a comment letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission, which was in follow up to a response letter dated January 26, 2009 from the Company. The comment to be addressed shortly in a response letter is as follows: FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007 Financial Statements and Notes Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Share-Based Compensation, page F-11 1) We read your response to comment four. It is unclear whether the illiquidity discount and the discount due to the risk related to the book-up requirement account for the expected volatility and the risk-free interest rate, respectively. Please advise or alternately confirm that volatility and risk free interest rate are not considered substantive characteristics of your LTIP units. Refer to paragraphs A11 and A18 of SFAS 123R. Additionally, we note your disclosure on page F-11 and in Note 12. However, please confirm that in future filings you will include a clear explanation of the types of discounts taken and how they are necessary in assessing the value of your LTIP units, the specific discount rates and other assumptions used in your valuation model as required by paragraph 240(c) of SFAS 123R. 25 Item 