Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We will require substantial additional funding, and our failure to raise additional capital necessary to support and expand our operations could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. As of June 30, 2012, we had $18.1 million of cash and cash equivalents. We expect to continue to have negative cash flows until we can generate sufficient revenues from our licensing and related service projects, as well as from the ZZ Joint Venture, the Yima Joint Ventures and other projects which are under development, to cover our general and administrative expenses and other operating costs. We plan to use our cash for: • general and administrative expenses, including the SES China business platform; • debt service related to the ZZ Joint Venture; • working capital; • project, third party licensing and technical development expenses; • operating expenses of SRS; and • general corporate purposes. The actual allocation and timing of these expenditures will be dependent on various factors, including changes in our strategic relationships, commodity prices and industry conditions, and other factors that we cannot currently predict. In particular, any future decrease in economic activity in China or in other regions of the world in which we may in the future do business could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Although demand for methanol is increasing is some regions, markets for commodities such as methanol have been under significant pressure and we are unsure of how much longer methanol prices may remain depressed. Accordingly, our ability to finance and develop our existing projects, commence any new projects and sell products from our current operations could be adversely impacted. We expect to continue for a period of time to have negative operating cash flows until we can generate sufficient revenues from SES China (including the the ZZ Joint Venture and the Yima Joint Ventures) or our licensing and related service projects, as well as from other projects which are under development, to cover our general and administrative expenses and other operating costs. In addition, if we are not able to complete the ZJX/China Energy transaction, we will need to aggressively pursue additional partners in China and may need to seek other equity financing or cut our operating expenses. We will also limit the development of any further projects until we have assurances that acceptable financing is available to complete the project. Despite this, we will continue to pursue the development of selective projects with strong and credible partners or off-takers where we believe equity and debt can be raised or where we believe we can attract a financial partner to participate in the project. We can make no assurances that our business operations will develop and provide us with significant cash to continue operations. We may need to raise additional capital through equity and debt financing for any new projects that are developed, to support our existing projects and possible expansions, and to meet corporate general and administrative expenses. We cannot provide any assurance that any financing will be available to us in the future on acceptable terms or at all. Any such financing could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. If we cannot raise required funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things, (i) maintain our general and administrative expenses at current levels; (ii) successfully develop our licensing and related service businesses; (iii) negotiate and enter into new gasification plant development contracts and licensing agreements; (iv) expand our operations; (v) hire and train new employees; or (vi) respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated capital requirements. Our results of operations may fluctuate. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may affect our operating results include: (i) our ability to obtain new customers and retain existing customers; (ii) the cost of coal and electricity; (iii) the success and acceptance of U-GAS ® technology; (iv) our ability to successfully develop our licensing business and execute on our projects; (v) the ability to obtain financing for our projects; (vi) shortages of equipment, raw materials or feedstock; (vii) approvals by various government agencies; (viii) the inability to obtain land use rights for our projects; and (ix) general economic conditions as well as economic conditions specific to the energy industry. For example, our results of operation have been largely affected by the level of licensing and related service revenues and syngas production levels at our ZZ Joint Venture plant. Under the syngas purchase and sale contract, Hai Hua is required to pay the energy and capacity fee payments if the syngas produced by the plant meets certain minimum specifications. Hai Hua has not made the capacity fee payments to the ZZ Joint Venture since April 2011. The unpaid amount totals approximately $4.7 million as of June 30, 2012. Although we are continuing to work with Hai Hua on alternatives to resolve the issue, there can be no assurances that we will collect these amounts. In late September 2011, both the Hai Hua methanol plant and the ZZ Joint Venture plant were shut down for scheduled maintenance and the ZZ Joint Venture plant has been kept idle while we develop its revised commercial arrangement with Hai Hua. If a definitive agreement is signed and the additional capital is received, the commercial work and physical integration work would begin. This work is expected to take about six months to complete and we would continue to keep the plant idle until this commercial work is completed. Although Hai Hua is working collaboratively with SES to discuss the methanol integration project and to resolve the commercial issues, we can have no assurances as to when or if this will be completed or when the plant will come back online. 17 Table of Contents Our lack of operating history precludes us from forecasting operating results and our business strategies may not be accepted in the marketplace and may not help us to achieve profitability. Our lack of operating history or meaningful revenue precludes us from forecasting operating results based on historical results. Our proposed business strategies described in this annual report incorporate our senior management’s current best analysis of potential markets, opportunities and difficulties that face us. No assurance can be given that the underlying assumptions accurately reflect current trends in our industry, terms of possible project investments or our customers’ reaction to our products and services or that such products or services will be successful. Our business strategies may and likely will change substantially from time to time (such as our recent emphasis on licensing and related product offerings) as our senior management reassesses its opportunities and reallocates its resources, and any such strategies may be changed or abandoned at any time. If we are unable to develop or implement these strategies through our projects and our technology, we may never achieve profitability which could impair our ability to continue as a going concern. Even if we do achieve profitability, it may not be sustainable, and we cannot predict the level of such profitability. We may not be successful developing opportunities to license our technology. Although we have identified potential opportunities in the U.S., India, Australia, Vietnam and southern Africa, as well as other parts of Europe and Asia, we have only recently begun to develop our licensing and related service business and many of the relationships with potential customers are still being cultivated. Our ability to successfully develop licensing opportunities for the U-GAS® technology is uncertain and depends upon the strength of global markets as well as our continued capability to deliver technology licenses, components and services primarily through our China operations center. In addition, as with our other projects, we will be exposed to the risk of financial non-performance by our customers. Although we anticipate that we can generate revenues through engineering and technical service fees, as well as licensing fees and royalties on products sold by our licensees that incorporate our proprietary technology, there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so and our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation. We have performance guarantees under our third party licensing agreements. Under our license agreements, we typically provide a guarantee of the performance of the plant which is using our technology. Should we become liable under the performance guarantee, we could be held liable for the customer’s damages and we may be required to re-perform certain affected work and services. Although our liability for the performance guarantee is typically capped at 50% of the fees that we receive under the license agreement, our liability for damages or re-performance of our work could still have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Limited continuing rights of prior licensees of U-GAS® technology could limit the exclusivity of our license and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Prior to granting us an exclusive license, GTI licensed U-GAS® technology to five other entities, all of which have been terminated. We rely on our exclusive license with GTI for U-GAS® technology to negotiate, enter into and implement contracts with partners and customers and to further develop our business and operations. Certain predecessor licensees may have limited continuing rights under their license agreements with GTI or may have sublicensed the technology. Although neither we nor GTI are aware of any continued use or development of U-GAS® technology by any of these prior licensees or sublicensees, it is possible that the exclusivity of our license of U-GAS® technology may be restricted in certain areas of the world. If such rights do in fact exist, GTI does not intend to provide technical or any other support to such licensees. Despite GTI’s intentions, any such limitations on the exclusivity of the license could have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We face the potential inability to protect our intellectual property rights which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on proprietary technology licensed from GTI. Our license agreement with GTI for U-GAS® technology (described under “Description of Business—GTI Agreements”) is a critical component of our business. All of the prior patents granted around U-GAS® technology have expired. We are improving the technology and we plan to create new technologies around the core U-GAS® technology and have applied for new patents for these improvements and new technologies. Proprietary rights relating to U-GAS® technology are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents, maintained within trade secrets or maintained in confidence through legally binding agreements. There can be no assurance that patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, our ability to obtain patent protection may be affected by the terms of the New Agreement. In the absence of patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our technology or gain access to our proprietary information and technical know-how. In addition, we rely on proprietary information and technical know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. Proceedings initiated by us to protect our proprietary rights could result in substantial costs to us. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or that they will not use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe upon our patents. Pending or issued patents held by parties not affiliated with us may relate to our products or technologies. We may need to acquire licenses to, or contest the validity of, any such patents. We cannot assure you that any license required under any such patent would be made available on acceptable terms or that we would prevail in any such contest. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against us or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. If the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to us, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on the availability and cost of low rank coal and coal waste and our inability to obtain a low cost source could have an impact on our business. We believe that we have the greatest competitive advantage using our U-GAS® technology in situations where there is a ready source of low rank, low cost coal, coal waste or biomass to utilize as a feedstock. We intend to locate projects in areas where low cost coal and coal waste is available or where it can be moved to a project site easily without transportation issues and we are working to develop structured transactions that include securing options to feedstock resources including coal and biomass. The success of our projects and those of our customers will depend on the supply of low rank coal and coal waste. If a source of low cost coal or coal waste for these projects cannot be obtained effectively, our business and operating results could be seriously affected. The termination of our license agreement with GTI or any of our joint venture agreements or licensing agreements would materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The New Agreement, our joint ventures in China, our licensing and related service business and our joint venture with SRS are essential to us and our future development. The New Agreement terminates on August 31, 2016, but may be terminated by GTI upon certain events of default if not cured by us within specified time periods. In addition, after the two ten year extension periods provided under the New Agreement, which are exercisable at our option, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in obtaining an extension of the term of the license at a royalty rate that we believe to be reasonable or at all. Our joint venture agreements do not terminate for many years, but may be terminated earlier due to certain events of bankruptcy or default, or, in the case of Zao Zhuang, if the purchase and sale contract for syngas is terminated. Termination of any of our joint ventures would require us to seek another collaborative relationship in that territory. We cannot assure you that a suitable alternative third party would be identified, and even if identified, we cannot assure you that the terms of any new relationship would be commercially acceptable to us. In addition, any of our license agreements could be terminated by our customer if we default under the terms of the agreement and any such termination could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Our projects and projects of our customers are subject to an extensive governmental approval process which could delay the implementation of our business strategy. Selling syngas, methanol, glycol and other commodities is highly regulated in many markets around the world. We believe these projects will be supported by the governmental agencies in the areas where the projects will operate because coal-based technologies, which are less burdensome on the environment, are generally encouraged by most governments. However, in China and other developing markets, the regulatory environment is often uncertain and can change quickly, often with contradictory regulations or policy guidelines being issued. In some cases, government officials have different interpretations of such regulations and policy guidelines and project approvals that are obtained could later be deemed to be inadequate. Furthermore, new policy guidelines or regulations could alter applicable requirements or require that additional levels of approval be obtained. If we or our customers and partners are unable to effectively complete the government approval process in China and other markets in which we intend to operate, our business prospects and operating results could be seriously harmed. 19 Table of Contents For example, China’s State Council has recently issued an opinion further restricting new project approvals for wind power, polysilicon, steel cement, glass and coal to methanol and DME projects. At the same time, the government continues to encourage newer technologies that can cleanly process coal. Although we do not believe that China’s project approval requirements and slowing of approvals for new coal to methanol and DME projects will invalidate any of our existing permits, our future joint ventures will have to abide by these guidelines. We are dependent on our relationships with our strategic partners for project development. We are dependent on our relationships with our strategic partners to accelerate our expansion, fund our development efforts, better understand market practices and regulatory issues and more effectively handle challenges that may arise. Our future success will depend on these relationships and any other strategic relationships that we may enter into. We cannot assure you that we will satisfy the conditions required to maintain these relationships under existing agreements or that we can prevent the termination of these agreements. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into relationships with future strategic partners on acceptable terms. The termination of any relationship with an existing strategic partner or the inability to establish additional strategic relationships may limit our ability to develop our U-GAS® projects and may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our size and lack of operating history could inhibit the development of our third party licensing business. License agreements typically provide a guarantee of the performance of the plant which is using the U-GAS® technology. Due to our size and lack of operating history there could be a perception that we are not able to satisfy these obligations, even though liability is typically capped at 50% of the fees received under the license agreement. As a result, partners may choose to enter into agreements with our larger competitors due to the belief that they are in a greater position to stand by their performance guarantees. These perceptions could hinder the development of our third party licensing business and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may never be able to reach agreements regarding the completion of future projects. Other than the ZZ Joint Venture and the Yima Joint Ventures, all of our other potential development opportunities are in the early stages of development and/or contract negotiations. Our agreements with Hai Hua and Yima, discussed under “Description of Business—Current Operations and Projects,” are currently our only negotiated joint venture contracts with operations. Additionally, we have only recently begun to develop our licensing and related service business and many of the relationships with potential customers are still being cultivated. We are unsure of when, if ever, many of these contracts will be negotiated, executed and implemented. There are many reasons that we may fail in our efforts to negotiate, execute and implement contracts with our target customers to provide cost efficient energy services, including the possibilities that: (i) our products and services will be ineffective; (ii) our products and services will be cost prohibitive or will not achieve broad market acceptance; (iii) competitors will offer superior products and services; or (iv) competitors will offer their products and services at a lower cost. Joint ventures that we enter into present a number of challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our ZZ Joint Venture represents a substantial portion of our expected revenue in the near future. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we plan to enter into other joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. These transactions typically involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including the existence of unknown potential disputes, liabilities or contingencies that arise after entering into the joint venture related to the counterparties to such joint ventures, with whom we share control. We could experience financial or other setbacks if transactions encounter unanticipated problems due to challenges, including problems related to execution or integration. Any of these risks could reduce our revenues or increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, we are now a minority owner in the Yima Joint Ventures and we will be relying on Yima to provide the management and operational support for the project. As a result, the success and timing of development activities on the Yima project will depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control. Dependence on Yima, and other owners of future projects in which we have a minority interest, or extended negotiations regarding the scope of the projects, could delay or prevent the realization of targeted returns on our capital invested in these projects. 20 Table of Contents We also include the financial statements of the ZZ Joint Venture in our consolidated financial statements. We rely on personnel in China to compile this information and deliver it to us in a timely fashion so that the information can be incorporated into our consolidated financial statements prior to the due dates for our annual and quarterly reports. Any difficulties or delays in receiving this information or incorporating it into our consolidated financial statements could impair our ability to timely file our annual and quarterly reports. We or our joint venture partners will manage the design, procurement and construction of our plants. If our or their management of these issues fails, our business and operating results could suffer. For our ZZ Joint Venture, and possibly for other projects we may work on in the future, we have or expect to manage plant design, procurement of equipment and supervise construction. Most of this work has been or will be subcontracted to third parties. We are and will be coordinating and supervising these tasks. Although we believe that this is the most time and cost effective way to build gasification plants in China and elsewhere, we bear the risk of cost and schedule overruns and quality control. If we do not properly manage the design, procurement and construction of our plants, our business and operating results could be seriously harmed. Furthermore, as we continue to improve U-GAS® technology, we may decide to make changes to our equipment that could further delay the construction of our plants. Additionally, for certain of our projects, including projects for which we provide a license or related service, we will rely on our partners to manage the design, procurement and construction of the plant. The success and timing of work on these projects by others will depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control. A portion of our revenues will be derived from the merchant sales of commodities and our inability to obtain satisfactory prices could have a material adverse effect on our business. In certain circumstances, we or our partners plan to sell methanol, glycol, DME, synthetic gasoline, SNG, ammonia, hydrogen, nitrogen, elemental sulphur, ash and other commodities into the merchant market. These sales may not be subject to long term offtake agreements and the price will be dictated by the then prevailing market price. Revenues from such sales may fluctuate and may not be consistent or predictable. In particular, the market for commodities such as methanol is currently under significant pressure and we are unsure of how much longer this will continue. Our business and financial condition would be materially adversely affected if we are unable to obtain satisfactory prices for these commodities or if prospective buyers do not purchase these commodities. Increased development of shale gas in China could have an adverse effect on our business. According to an assessment published by the EIA in 2011, China has the world’s largest technically recoverable shale gas reserve resource, representing 20% of the world’s total shale gas resources. Sinopec, the Chinese state owned oil company, has recently drilled the first of nine planned shale gas wells. Although China currently lacks the infrastructure to develop this on a large scale, by 2020, their goal is for shale gas to provide 6 percent of its total energy needs. An increase in the development of shale gas would be a competitive alternative to syngas and SNG which is produced by our process and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation if successful. Economic uncertainty could negatively impact our business, limit our access to the credit and equity markets, increase the cost of capital, and may have other negative consequences that we cannot predict. Economic uncertainty in the United States could create financial challenges if conditions do not improve. Most recently, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the U.S. credit rating to AA+ from its top rank of AAA, which has increased the possibility of other credit-rating agency downgrades which could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world. Our internally generated cash flow and cash on hand historically have not been sufficient to fund all of our expenditures, and we have relied on, among other things, bank financings and private equity to provide us with additional capital. Our ability to access capital may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital. If our cash flow from operations is less than anticipated and our access to capital is restricted, we may be required to reduce our operating and capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our results and future operations. Ongoing uncertainty may also reduce the values we are able to realize in asset sales or other transactions we may engage in to raise capital, thus making these transactions more difficult and less economic to consummate. We are dependent on key personnel who would be difficult to replace. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and on the performance of our senior management and other key personnel. Our performance also depends on our ability to retain and motivate our officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we have employment arrangements, which include non-competition provisions, with Robert Rigdon, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Kevin Kelly, our Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, Francis Lau, our Chief Technology Officer, William E. Preston, our Senior Vice President — Global Business Development and Licensing and certain other members of senior management, as a practical matter, those agreements will not assure the retention of our employees and we may not be able to enforce all of the provisions in any such employment agreement, including the non-competition provisions. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In addition, because substantially all of our operations are currently in China, we will be required to retain personnel who reside in, or are willing to travel to, and who speak the language and understand the customs of, China. Our inability to retain these types of individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Payment of severance benefits could strain our cash flow. Certain members of our senior management have employment agreements that provide for substantial severance payments. In the event we terminate the employment of any of these employees, or in certain cases, if such employees terminate their employment with us, such employees will be entitled to receive certain severance and related payments. The need to pay these severance payments could put a strain on our financial resources. Our success will depend in part on our ability to grow and diversify, which in turn will require that we manage and control our growth effectively. Our business strategy contemplates growth and diversification. As we add to our services, our number of customers, and our marketing and sales efforts, operating expenses and capital requirements will increase. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require that we continue to expend funds to improve our operational, financial and management controls, as well as reporting systems and procedures. In addition, we must effectively recruit new employees, and once hired, train and manage them. From time to time, we may also have discussions with respect to potential acquisitions, some of which may be material, in order to further grow and diversify our business. However, acquisitions are subject to a number of risks and challenges, including difficulty of integrating the businesses, adverse effects on our earnings, existence of unknown liabilities or contingencies and potential disputes with counterparties. We will be unable to manage our business effectively if we are unable to alleviate the strain on resources caused by growth in a timely and successful manner. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our growth and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face intense competition. If we cannot gain market share among our competition, we may not earn revenues and our business may be harmed. The business of providing energy is highly competitive. In the gasification market, large multi-national industrial corporations that are better capitalized, such as General Electric, Shell, Phillips66 and Siemens (with entrained flow technologies), and smaller Chinese firms (with atmospheric pressure technologies) offer coal gasification equipment and services. Although we do not directly compete with the multi-national industrial corporations, their activities in the marketplace may negatively impact our operations and our ability to attract quality projects. In addition, new competitors, some of whom may have extensive experience in related fields or greater financial resources, may enter the market. Increased competition could result in a loss of contracts and market share. Either of these results could seriously harm our business and operating results. In addition, there are a number of gasification and conventional, non-gasification, coal-based alternatives for producing heat and power that could compete with our technology in specific situations. If we are unable to effectively compete with other sources of energy, our business and operating results could be seriously harmed. In our areas of operation, the projects we and our customers intend to build are subject to rigorous environmental regulations, review and approval. We cannot assure you that such approvals will be obtained, applicable requirements will be satisfied or approvals, once granted, will be maintained. Our operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, siting of facilities or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Numerous governmental agencies, such as various Chinese authorities at the municipal, provincial or central government level and similar regulatory bodies in other countries, issue regulations to implement and enforce such laws, which often require difficult and costly compliance measures that carry substantial potential administrative, civil and criminal penalties or may result in injunctive relief for failure to comply. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before construction and/or operations at a facility commence, restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with such activities, limit or prohibit construction activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, ecologically sensitive and other protected areas and impose substantial liabilities for pollution. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws and regulations. Although to date we have not experienced any material adverse effect from compliance with existing environmental requirements, we cannot assure you that we will not suffer such effects in the future or that projects developed by our partners or customers will not suffer such effects. 22 Table of Contents In China, developing, constructing and operating gasification facilities is highly regulated. In the development stage of a project, the key government approvals are the project’s environmental impact assessment report, or EIA, feasibility study (also known as the project application report) and, in the case of a Sino-foreign joint venture, approval of the joint venture company’s joint venture contract and articles of association. Approvals in China are required at the municipal, provincial and/or central government levels depending on the total size of the investment in the project. Prior to commencing full commercial operations, we also need additional environmental approvals to ensure that the facility will comply with standards adopted in the EIA. Although we have been successful in obtaining the permits that are required at this stage of our development, any retroactive change in policy guidelines or regulations, or an opinion that the approvals that have been obtained are inadequate, could require us to obtain additional or new permits, spend considerable resources on complying with such requirements or delay commencement of construction. For example, China has issued new project approval requirements for coal to methanol and DME which could be applied to our existing permits. Other developments, such as the enactment of more stringent environmental laws, regulations or policy guidelines or more rigorous enforcement procedures, or newly discovered conditions, could require us to incur significant capital expenditures. We may incur substantial liabilities to comply with climate control legislation and regulatory initiatives. Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases,” may be contributing to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. In response to such studies, many countries are actively considering legislation, or have already taken legal measures, to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Carbon dioxide, a byproduct of burning fossil fuels such as coal, is an example of a greenhouse gas. Plants using our technology may release a significant amount of carbon dioxide. Methane is another greenhouse gas. New legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business may require us or our customers to obtain additional permits, meet additional control requirements, install additional environmental mitigation equipment, or take other as yet unknown steps to comply with these potential regulations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Although we plan to use advanced technologies to actively utilize or sequester any greenhouse gas emissions, compliance with any future regulation of greenhouse gases, if it occurs, could be costly and may delay our development of projects. Even if we or out customers obtain all necessary permits, the air quality standards or the interpretation of those standards may change, thus requiring additional control equipment, more stringent permitting requirements, or other measures. Such requirements could significantly increase the operating costs and capital costs associated with any future development, expansion or modification of a plant. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Our management regularly reviews and updates our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls and procedures, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures, or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to maintain compliance with Section 404 or if the costs related to compliance are significant, our profitability, stock price and results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We are required to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 and the related Securities and Exchange Commission’s implementing rules, require that management disclose whether the CEO and CFO maintained internal control over financial reporting that, among other things, provides reasonable assurance that material errors in our external financial reports will be prevented or detected on a timely basis, and that we maintain support for that disclosure that includes evidence of our evaluation of the design and operation of our internal control. We are a small company with limited financial resources and our finance and accounting staff is very limited. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully maintain the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 or that we or our auditors will not identify material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting in the future. If we are unable to maintain compliance with Section 404, investors could lose confidence in our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Chinese Operations Chinese investment regulations could adversely impact our company and subject us to fines. Recent Chinese regulations relating to outbound investment activities, in particular, round-tripping investments by Chinese residents may increase our administrative burden, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity or otherwise adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy. Under the regulations of SAFE, Chinese residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect round tripping investments through a SPV, will be required to register with SAFE. In the case of any round tripping investment by the Chinese residents through an offshore entity which is not an SPV, as defined in the SAFE Circular 75, the onshore entities that are indirectly held by the Chinese residents is required to complete the foreign exchange registration process with a tag on it as “Non-SPV round tripping investment”. In addition, such SAFE registration is required to be filed or updated in the case of any material change involving its round-trip investment, capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. If any Chinese stockholder fails to make the required SAFE registration or filings, or if Chinese entities fail to be tagged as the “Non-SPV round tripping investment”, the Chinese subsidiary of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation, to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into their Chinese subsidiary. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under Chinese laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our stockholders who are Chinese residents will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our Chinese resident stockholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE regulations may subject our Chinese subsidiaries to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit them ability to distribute dividends to or obtain foreign-exchange dominated loans from our company. Nor can we provide assurance that our Chinese subsidiaries are accepted by SAFE to be tagged as “ Non-SPV round tripping investment” given that SAFE Circular 19 is a newly issued regulation and certain aspects therein still remain in uncertainty. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and obtaining foreign currency denominated borrowings, which may harm our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a Chinese domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. Under Chinese laws, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to a high level of scrutiny by Chinese tax authorities. Under Chinese laws, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by Chinese tax authorities. Under the Regulation on the Implementation of the Enterprise Income Tax Law, the “related party” means the enterprises, other organizations or individuals that have any of the following relations with an enterprise: • direct or indirect control relationship with respect to capital, management, sale or purchase, etc.; • directly or indirectly controlled by a common third-party; • any other relationship of interest. If any of the transactions we enter into with related parties are found not to be on an arm’s-length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in tax under Chinese law, Chinese tax authorities have the authority to disallow any tax savings, adjust the profits and losses of such possible future Chinese entities and assess late payment interest and penalties. A finding by Chinese tax authorities that we are ineligible for any such tax savings would in all likelihood substantially increase our possible future taxes and thus reduce our net income in future periods. Labor laws in China may adversely affect our results of operations. The Chinese Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly affects the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires certain terminations be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the Chinese Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost-effective manner, thus materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Foreign laws may not afford us sufficient protections for our intellectual property, and we may not be able to obtain patent protection outside of the United States. Despite continuing international pressure on the Chinese government, intellectual property rights protection continues to present significant challenges to foreign investors and, increasingly, Chinese companies. Chinese commercial law is relatively undeveloped compared to the commercial law in our other major markets and only limited protection of intellectual property is available in China as a practical matter. Although we have taken precautions in the operations of our Chinese subsidiaries to protect our intellectual property, any local design or manufacture of products that we undertake in China could subject us to an increased risk that unauthorized parties will be able to copy or otherwise obtain or use our intellectual property, which could harm our business. We may also have limited legal recourse in the event we encounter patent or trademark infringement. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system may adversely affect the operations of our Chinese subsidiaries. China has put in place a comprehensive system of intellectual property laws; however, incidents of infringement are common and enforcement of rights can, in practice, be difficult. If we are unable to manage our intellectual property rights, our business and operating results may be seriously harmed. Our operations in China may be adversely affected by evolving economic, political and social conditions. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business internationally. Such risks include the adverse effects on operations from war, international terrorism, civil disturbances, political instability, governmental activities and deprivation of contract and property rights. In particular, since 1978, the Chinese government has been reforming its economic and political systems, and we expect this to continue. Although we believe that these reforms have had a positive effect on the economic development of China and have improved our ability to do business in China, we cannot assure you that these reforms will continue or that the Chinese government will not take actions that impair our operations or assets in China. In addition, periods of international unrest may impede our ability to do business in other countries and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Long term offtake agreements could be difficult to obtain and, if obtained, enforce because of China’s underdeveloped legal system. Historically, it has been difficult to enter into or otherwise obtain long term offtake agreements in China. Even if we are able to enter into such agreements for syngas, power and other commodities in the future, we may have difficulty seeking remedies under the agreements due to less certainty under China’s legal system, as compared to Western countries. We will seek to mitigate this risk by (i) dealing with reliable partners, (ii) obtaining all requisite government approvals, (iii) developing projects with good underlying economics, (iv) developing modular plants that can be moved away in an extreme circumstance, (v) using local banks to finance a majority of our project costs, and (vi) including enforceable arbitration provisions in all project agreements. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to successfully negotiate, implement and manage the offtake agreements. As a result, our business and financial condition would be materially adversely affected if we are unable to enter into these agreements, or if entered to, to mitigate the risks associated with these agreements. Our results of operations would be negatively affected by potential currency fluctuations in exchange rates with foreign countries. Currency fluctuations, devaluations and exchange restrictions may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. Exchange rates are influenced by political or economic developments in China, the United States or elsewhere and by macroeconomic factors and speculative actions. In some countries, local currencies may not be readily converted into U.S. dollars or other hard currencies or may only be converted at government controlled rates, and, in some countries, the transfer of hard currencies offshore has been restricted from time to time. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, if at all. Fluctuations in exchange rates can have a material impact on our costs of construction, our operating expenses and the realization of revenue from the sale of commodities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to offset any such fluctuations and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our financial statements are expressed in U.S. dollars and will be negatively affected if foreign currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi Yuan, depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by exchange control regulations in China or other countries that restrict our ability to convert into U.S. dollars. 25 Table of Contents Chinese regulations of loans and direct investment by offshore entities to Chinese entities may delay or prevent us from utilizing proceeds of funds to make loans or additional capital contributions to our operations in China, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. We may make loans or additional capital contributions to our operations in China. Any loans to our Chinese operations are subject to Chinese regulations and approvals. Such loans by us cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the Chinese State Administration of Foreign Exchange or its local counterpart. We may also decide to finance our Chinese operations by means of capital contributions. This capital contribution must be approved by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our Chinese operations or any of their subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize our Chinese operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and ability to fund and expand our business. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar Chinese and worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and similar Chinese and worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that United States laws and regulations prohibit us from using. In order to effectively compete in some foreign jurisdictions, we utilize local agents and seek to establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. Although we have procedures and controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance, if we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others, including actions taken by our agents and our strategic or local partners, even though our agents and partners are not subject to the FCPA), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in China. China historically has been deficient in Western style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as in modern banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of employees who are qualified to assist us in application of such concepts and practices to work in China. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. 26 Table of Contents We face risks related to natural disasters and health epidemics in China, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be materially adversely affected by natural disasters or the outbreak of health epidemics in China. For example, in May 2008, Sichuan Province suffered a strong earthquake measuring approximately 8.0 on the Richter scale that caused widespread damage and casualties. In addition, in the last decade, China has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of avian influenza and severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. In April 2009, an outbreak of the H1N1 virus, also commonly referred to as “swine flu” occurred in Mexico and has spread to other countries. Cases of swine flu have been reported in Hong Kong and mainland China. The Chinese government and certain regional governments within China have enacted regulations to address the H1N1 virus, which may have an effect on our business. If the outbreak of swine flu were to become widespread in China or increase in severity, it could have an adverse effect on economic activity in China, and could require the temporary closure of manufacturing facility. Such events could severely disrupt our business operations and harm our results of operations. Any future natural disasters or health epidemics in China could also have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in China. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to Chinese laws and regulations including those applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, decided legal cases have little precedential value in China. In 1979, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation since 1979 has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. However, Chinese laws and regulations change frequently and the interpretation of laws and regulations is not always uniform and enforcement thereof can involve uncertainties. For instance, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we are entitled to by law or contract. However, since Chinese administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting statutory and contractual terms, it may be difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative court proceedings and the level of law enforcement that we would receive in more developed legal systems. Such uncertainties, including the potential inability to enforce our contracts, could limit legal protections available to you and us and could affect our business and operations. In addition, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the Chinese legal system, particularly with regard to the industries in which we operate, including the promulgation of new laws. This may include changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the availability of law enforcement, including our ability to enforce our agreements with Chinese government entities and other foreign investors. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our historic stock price has been volatile and the future market price for our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile. The public market for our common stock has historically been very volatile. Any future market price for our shares is likely to continue to be very volatile. Since we began trading on The NASDAQ Stock Market on November 2, 2007, our common stock has traded at prices as low as $0.41 per share and as high as $15.92 per share. This price volatility may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell shares when they want at prices that they find attractive. We do not know of any one particular factor that has caused volatility in our stock price. However, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Broad market factors and the investing public’s negative perception of our business may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Our common stock is thinly traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market. Although our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market, the trading volume has historically been low and we cannot assure investors that this will increase the trading volume or decrease the volatility of the trading price of our common stock. We cannot assure investors that a more active trading market will develop even if we issue more equity in the future. 27 Table of Contents The market valuation of our business may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control and the value of the investment of our stockholders may fluctuate correspondingly. The market valuation of energy companies, such as us, frequently fluctuate due to factors unrelated to the past or present operating performance of such companies. Our market valuation may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • Changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • Fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of energy companies; • Changes in market valuations of similar companies; • Announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new technologies, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • Variations in our quarterly operating results; • Fluctuations in coal, oil, natural gas, methanol and ammonia prices; • Loss of a major customer of failure to complete significant commercial contracts; • Loss of a relationship with a partner; and • Additions or departures of key personnel. As a result, the value of your investment in us may fluctuate. Investors should not look to dividends as a source of income. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, any economic return will initially be derived, if at all, from appreciation in the fair market value of our stock, and not as a result of dividend payments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 