ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risks and other information contained in this Report before you decide whether to buy, hold or sell our common stock. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks, or any additional risk not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, should occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business Our sales and profitability may suffer if ongoing economic uncertainties in any of our major markets inhibit people from spending their disposable income on aesthetic and skin health products. Virtually all of our products are purchased based on consumer choice due to the fact that all of our products are considered cosmetic in nature. As a result, they are typically paid directly by the patient out of disposable income and are not subject to reimbursement by third-party payors such as health insurance organizations. Adverse changes in the economy, such as the recent recession or ongoing economic uncertainties could accordingly have a significant negative effect on consumer spending for these products. If consumers reassess their spending choices, the demand for these products could decline significantly. If demand declines significantly in our major markets, such as North America, Asia and the Middle East, it would have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability and could lead to a decline in our stock price. Furthermore, if we are unable to successfully sell our products against competitive products or if consumer preferences in the marketplace shift to less costly alternative treatments, we may experience a decline in demand for our products, which could also have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Recent economic trends could adversely affect our financial performance and stock price. As widely reported, the global financial markets experienced extreme disruption in 2008 and the majority of 2009, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we saw these unprecedented global economic conditions have a negative impact on our revenue growth performance. Although we witnessed some modest signs of economic recovery in 2010, it is unclear whether the economy will show sustained growth and/or stability. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the improvement in revenue growth that we experienced in 2010 will be sustainable. While adverse economic conditions have not materially impacted our financial position as of December 31, 2010 or liquidity for the year ended December 31, 2010, we cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic recovery, and our financial condition could be negatively impacted in the future if the economy fails to sustain its recovery or if there are new events that contribute to additional deterioration in financial markets and major global economies. The recent recession also resulted in increased downward pressure on stock prices generally, including our own, which is unrelated to financial performance. Our revenues and financial results depend significantly on sales of our Obagi Nu-Derm System. If we are unable to manufacture or sell the Nu-Derm System in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner, or maintain physician and/or patient acceptance of the Nu-Derm System, our business will be materially and adversely impacted. To date, the majority of our revenues have resulted from sales of our principal product line, the Obagi Nu-Derm System and related products. The Nu-Derm System and related products accounted for approximately 52%, 54% and 56% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Although we currently offer other products such as Obagi-C Rx, Professional-C, ELASTIderm, CLENZIderm, Rosaclear, ELASTILash and Blue Peel RADIANCE, and we intend to introduce additional new products, we still expect sales of our Obagi Nu-Derm System and related products to account for a majority of our sales for the foreseeable future. Because our business is highly dependent on our Obagi Nu-Derm System and related products, factors adversely affecting the pricing of, or demand for, these products could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Sales of our Obagi Nu-Derm Systems also experience seasonality. We believe this is due to variability in patient compliance that relates to several factors such as a tendency to travel and/or engage in other disruptive activities during the summer months. Additionally, our commercial success depends in large part on our ability to sustain market acceptance of the Nu-Derm System. If existing users of our products determine that our products do not satisfy their requirements, or if our competitors develop a product that is perceived by patients or physicians to better satisfy their respective requirements, sales of the Nu-Derm System and related products may decline, and 20 our total net sales may correspondingly decline. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to manufacture these products in commercial quantities at acceptable costs. Our inability to do so would adversely affect our operating results and cause our business to suffer. We face intense competition, in some cases from companies that have significantly greater resources than we do, which could limit our ability to generate sales and/or render our products obsolete. The market for aesthetic and therapeutic skin health products is highly competitive and we expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future. We also expect to encounter increased competition as we enter new markets and as we attempt to penetrate existing markets with new products. We may not be able to compete effectively in these markets, may face significant pricing pressure from our competitors and may lose market share to our competitors. Our principal competitors are large, well established companies in the fields of pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, medical devices and health care. Our largest direct competitors generally include La-Roche Posay, SkinMedica, Inc., Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, SkinCeuticals, a division of L’Oreal S.A., Allergan, Inc., IS Clinical and PhotoMedex, Inc. Our indirect competitors, who generally sell skin care products directly to consumers, generally consist of large well known cosmetic companies, including but not limited to, The Estee Lauder Companies Inc., Helene Curtis Industries, Inc., L’Oreal S.A., Matrix Essentials, Inc., a division of L’Oreal S.A, Procter & Gamble Company, Neutrogena, a division of Johnson & Johnson, Revlon, Inc. and Unilever N.V. We also face competition from medical device companies offering products to physicians that are used to enhance the skin’s appearance. Many of these competitors have greater resources than we have. This enables them, among other things, to make greater research and development investments and spread their research and development costs, as well as their marketing and promotion costs, over a broader revenue base. It is also possible that developments by our competitors could make our products or technologies less competitive or obsolete. The treatment of skin conditions and the enhancement of the appearance of skin, which is what all of our products target, are the subjects of active research and development by many potential competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies and specialized biotechnology firms, such as those listed above, as well as universities and other research institutions. Competitive advances may also include the potential development of new laser or radio frequency therapies to treat hyperpigmentation and photodamaged skin. While we intend to expand our technological capabilities to remain competitive, research and development by others may result in the introduction of new products by competitors that represent substantial improvements over our existing products. If that occurs, sales of our existing products could decline rapidly. Similarly, if we fail to make sufficient investments in research and development programs, our current and planned products could be surpassed by more effective or advanced products developed by our competitors. We may not be able to successfully expand the use of our current product lines or develop new products. We are working to improve, extend and reformulate many of our existing products. Continued market acceptance of our products will depend on our ability to successfully develop additional applications of our existing products. The development of additional applications will require significant commitments of personnel and financial resources and we cannot assure you that we will be successful. If the attempted extensions of our product lines are not commercially successful, our business will be adversely affected. We are also developing new product lines by applying our Penetrating Therapeutics technology to new agents. In addition, we have acquired rights to technologies described in certain patent applications relating to additional methods and formulations. New products, in various stages of development, include other applications for our acne and skin elasticity products and other new systems. These development activities, as well as clinical studies, which must be completed before these products can be marketed and sold, will require significant commitments of personnel and financial resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop new products or technologies in a timely manner, or at all. Delays in the development or testing processes will cause a corresponding delay in revenue generation from those products. Regardless of whether such new products or technologies are ever released to the market, the expense of such processes, which may be considerable, will have already been incurred and we may not be able to recover such expenses. We reevaluate our development efforts regularly to assess whether our efforts to develop a particular new product or technology are progressing at a rate that justifies our continued expenditures. On the basis of these reevaluations, we have abandoned in the past, and may abandon in the future, our efforts on a particular product or technology. In addition, new products that we develop may not be successfully commercialized. For instance, in August 2008, we entered the pharmacy channel for the first time by launching SoluCLENZ Rx Gel. However, after closely monitoring the progress of the launch and weekly sales data, we determined that the distribution of a single prescription product through the pharmacy channel and the ongoing investment to support that channel had become cost-prohibitive. Accordingly, in April 2009 we announced that we would no longer sell SoluCLENZ in the pharmacy channel. If we fail to take any other product or technology from the development stage to market on a timely basis or fail to gain successful market adoption of such product, we may incur significant expenses without a near-term or any financial return. 21 Our failure to successfully in-license or acquire additional products and technologies would impair our ability to grow. We intend to in-license, acquire, develop and market new products and technologies. Because we have limited internal research capabilities, our business model depends in part on our ability to license patents, products and/or technologies from third parties. The success of this strategy also depends upon our ability and the ability of our third-party formulators to formulate products under such licenses, as well as our ability to manufacture, market and sell such licensed products. We may not be able to successfully identify any new products to in-license, acquire or internally develop. Moreover, negotiating and implementing an economically viable acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the acquisition of products. We may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to such products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. As a result, our ability to grow our business or increase our profits could be adversely impacted. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain other qualified personnel, we may be unable to execute our business plan and our business would be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2010, we had 203 employees. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, business development, sales and marketing, product development and other personnel. In the future we may not be able to recruit and retain qualified personnel, particularly for senior sales and marketing and research and product development positions due to intense competition for personnel among businesses like ours. The failure to do so could have a significant negative impact on our future product sales and business results. In addition, some options granted to employees have an option price greater than our current market price. This may hinder our ability to retain qualified personnel. As previously announced, effective October 8, 2010, Steven R. Carlson resigned from his positions as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our Board of Directors. Albert F. Hummel, a member of our Board of Directors since 2005, assumed the responsibilities of President and Chief Executive Officer. Our success depends on the efforts and abilities of Mr. Hummel, Preston Romm, our Chief Financial Officer, and David Goldstein, our Executive Vice President of Global Sales and Field Marketing, as well as other members of our senior management team and our scientific and technical personnel. We may not be able to retain the services of these individuals. In addition, we do not have “key person” insurance policies on any of our executive officers that would compensate us for the loss of their services. If we lose the services of one or more of these individuals, finding a replacement could be difficult, may take an extended period of time and could significantly impede the achievement of our business objectives. This may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To grow, we will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If we are able to successfully develop additional products and extend the use of our current products, we may experience growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations. To the extent that we acquire and launch additional products, the resulting growth and expansion of our sales force will place a significant demand on our financial, managerial and operational resources. Since many of the new products or systems we are working on may involve new technologies or entering new markets, we may not be able to accurately forecast the number of employees required and the timing of their hire or the associated costs. The extent of any expansion we may experience will be driven largely by the success of our new products and systems. As a result, management’s ability to project the size of any such expansion and its cost to the company is limited by the following uncertainties: (i) we will not have previously sold any of the new products and technologies and the ultimate success of these new products and technologies is unknown; (ii) we will be entering new markets; and (iii) the costs associated with any expansion will be partially driven by factors that may not be fully in our control (e.g., timing of hire, market salary rates). As of December 31, 2010, due to the continued uncertainties in the economic markets, our current business plan does not anticipate that we hire a substantial number of new employees in 2011. However, since we are unable to ascertain whether the economy will continue to show signs of recovery or growth, we could be in a position to hire significant numbers of new employees on a relatively short time frame to support the launch of new product lines or increases in sales by physicians once the global markets show evidence of a sustained recovery. Due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of new product lines or the stabilization of the global markets, our costs to hire significant numbers of new employees could be higher than anticipated. Our success will also depend on the ability of our executive officers and senior management team to continue to implement and improve our operational, information management and financial control systems, and to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our inability to manage growth effectively could cause our operating costs to grow even faster than we currently anticipate and adversely affect our results of operations. Because we have limited research and development capabilities, we will be dependent on third parties to perform research and development and product formulation activities for us. We have limited internal research and development capabilities and currently outsource all of our product research and development and formulation activities to third-party research labs. In particular, we have licensed technologies that may issue as patents under certain patent applications filed by JR, and in the past have relied heavily on services provided by JR in the development of 22 new products to address acne and skin elasticity. We have received sufficient support from other third-party research labs to drive our current new product development; however, our current agreement with JR expired in September 2010 and since that time we have had to locate alternative third-party research and development companies to assist us. There are a limited number of third-party research and development companies that specialize in or have the expertise required to achieve our product development objectives. As a result, it may be difficult for us to engage research and development labs and personnel for our anticipated future needs. If we are unable to arrange for third-party research and development of our products, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to develop new products or expand the application of our existing products. Reliance on third-party research and development labs entails risks to which we would not be subject if we performed the research and development ourselves. These risks include reliance on the third party for maintaining the confidentiality of the proprietary information relating to the product being developed and for maintaining quality assurance (including adequate stability, safety and other data), the possibility of breach of the research and development agreement by the third party, and the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party. Dependence upon third parties for the research and development of our future products may limit our ability to commercialize and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis and quality assurance issues encountered with these third parties may require us to postpone a product launch or discontinue product sales until appropriate formulation adjustments and testing are performed. Because we currently have limited commercial manufacturing capabilities, we will continue to be dependent on third parties to manufacture products for us for some time. We have limited commercial manufacturing experience and currently outsource all of our non-BPO product manufacturing to third-party contract manufacturers. Although we have received sufficient material from our manufacturers to meet our current needs, we do not have long-term contracts with most of these third parties. Although we have two or more qualified manufacturers for most of our key products, certain products, including some of our sun protection products and our products containing hydroquinone, are currently supplied by a single source. In the event that this supplier or any of our other third-party manufacturers terminates its supply arrangement with us, experiences financial difficulties, encounters regulatory or quality assurance issues, or suffers any damage to its facilities, we may experience delays in securing sufficient amounts of our products, which could harm our business, reputation and relationships with customers. Triax and Spear are our only suppliers and manufacturers of tretinoin. We have contracts with Triax and Spear that have initial termination dates in 2014. While there are several other manufacturers of generic tretinoin, the termination of those agreements or any loss of services under those agreements could be difficult for us to replace. Refissa tretinoin manufactured by Spear is the only tretinoin currently permitted to be marketed for on-label use to treat fine lines and wrinkles. If this agreement were terminated, it would currently be impossible for us to replace with another product that would allow us to make such claims. We expect to continue to rely on third parties to produce materials required for clinical trials and for the commercial production of our products. There are a limited number of third-party manufacturers that operate under the FDA’s current cGMP, regulations and that have the necessary expertise and capacity to manufacture our products. As a result, it may be difficult for us to locate manufacturers for our anticipated future needs. If we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing of our products, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to complete development of, market and sell our new products. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance. To the extent that any of our third-party manufacturers fails to comply with regulatory requirements or encounters quality assurance issues, we may experience an interruption in the supply of products, which could impair our customer relationships and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, reliance on third-party manufacturers subjects us to the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party, and the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party. We have developed a manufacturing facility dedicated to the production of our CLENZIderm M.D. Serum Gel and Therapeutic Lotion. However, we are in the process of transferring the technology and manufacturing processes of these products to our current third-party manufacturers. We cannot assure you that we will successfully transfer the technology and manufacturing processes of the these products, which may make it difficult for us to maintain and grow sales of CLENZIderm M.D. Systems, or launch other new products and compete effectively. Dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may also reduce our profit margins or the sale of our products, and may limit our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. Our products may cause undesirable side effects that could limit their use, require their removal from the market or prevent further development. The most common side effects associated with our therapeutic products are temporary redness, stinging, burning sensation, skin peeling, flaking, acne flare-ups and photo-sensitivity normally experienced within approximately the first ten weeks of use. While these side effects generally are not severe, they may limit the use of our products, particularly if physicians or patients perceive that the risks or discomfort outweigh the benefits, or if they perceive that the side effects of competitive products are less significant. 23 Undesirable side effects caused by our products could interrupt, delay or halt our development programs, including clinical trials, and could result in adverse regulatory action by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. More severe side effects associated with our products may be observed in the future. Even if we are able to complete the development of a new product and obtain any required regulatory approval, undesirable side effects could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product. Negative publicity concerning our products, whether accurate or inaccurate, could also reduce market or regulatory acceptance of our products, which could result in decreased product demand, removal from the market or an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not such claims have merit. The FDA issued a proposed rule that cites evidence that an active ingredient contained in some of our Obagi Nu-Derm, Obagi-C Rx and ELASTIderm Décolletage Systems may have negative side effects. In August 2006, the FDA issued a proposed rule that cites some evidence that hydroquinone may be a carcinogen, if orally administered, and may be related to a skin condition called ochronosis, which results in the darkening and thickening of the skin, and the appearance of small bumps and grayish-brown spots. Hydroquinone is an active ingredient contained in our: (i) Obagi Clear, Obagi Blender and Obagi Sunfader products, which are part of our Nu-Derm and Condition & Enhance Systems; (ii) Obagi-C Rx C-Clarifying Serum and Obagi-C Rx C-Night Therapy products, which are part of our Obagi-C Rx Systems; and (iii) Décolletage Skin Lightening Complex, which is in the ELASTIderm product family. The FDA also concluded that it could not rule out the potential carcinogenic risk from topically applied hydroquinone. In the proposed rule, the FDA recommended that additional studies be conducted to determine if there is a risk to humans from the use of hydroquinone. The FDA nominated hydroquinone for further study by the NTP, and in December 2009 the NTP Board of Scientific Counselors approved the nomination. As a result, the following three NTP studies will be conducted: • Comparative metabolism studies in rats and mice by oral and dermal routes; • Reproductive toxicity study in rats and mice by oral route; and • Dermal carcinogenicity studies of hydroquinone in mice and rats. There are several more steps to the nomination process before the studies will commence, and the studies themselves can take two years or more to complete. The FDA has noted that, in the interim, it believes that hydroquinone at concentrations of 2% or less should remain available as an OTC drug product. However, if the NTP studies eventually conclude that hydroquinone is a carcinogen, we could be required to suspend the marketing of our products that contain hydroquinone, conduct additional safety tests and potentially cease the sale of affected products, which would harm our business. In addition, patients who experience side effects from our products may bring product liability claims against us. All of our products that contain hydroquinone are prescription-based. The FDA was considering regulating all hydroquinone products, including prescription-based hydroquinone products, as new drugs, and may conclude that the continued use of prescription-based hydroquinone products will require the submission and approval of a NDA. It is our understanding that the FDA is not intending to take any action with respect to regulation of products containing 4% hydroquinone until the NTP studies have been conducted. If, at the conclusion of the NTP studies, the FDA requires us to submit a NDA for our prescription-based hydroquinone products, we believe that the FDA may allow us to continue to market these products while we are preparing, submitting and waiting for approval of such NDA. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to market our products during the NDA process, and we may be required to suspend marketing of our prescription-based hydroquinone products until such time as a NDA is approved. In addition, we cannot assure you that any NDA we submit for our prescription-based hydroquinone products will be approved. If we are required to suspend or cease marketing of our prescription-based hydroquinone products, our business would be adversely affected. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our products. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent to the development, clinical testing and marketing of aesthetic and skin health products. These lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forgo further commercialization of those products. Although we maintain general liability and product liability insurance in amounts that we believe are reasonably adequate to insulate us from potential claims, this insurance may not fully cover potential liabilities. In addition, our inability to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of our products, which would adversely affect our business. 24 We are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our international sales currently depend upon the marketing efforts of and sales by certain distributors and licensees, particularly Rohto, a licensee of certain of our trademarks and products for the retail drug store channel in Japan, from whom we receive royalties that accounted for approximately 4% of our net sales for both of the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, and approximately 4% and 5% of our gross margin for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Because incremental costs associated with this agreement are minimal, a material decline in licensing revenues from or termination of this agreement would have a material adverse effect on our net income. While no other international distribution or license partner accounted for more than 5% of our net sales for either of the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: • adverse changes in tariff and trade protection measures; • unexpected changes or differences in foreign regulatory requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • the potential business failure of one or more of our distribution partners; • changing economic conditions in countries where our products are sold or manufactured; • exchange rate risks; • potential political unrest and hostilities; • differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; and • difficulties in coordinating foreign distribution. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we can successfully manage these risks or avoid their effects. During 2010, we entered into discussions with a non-performing international distributor in an attempt to renegotiate its distribution agreement and develop a payment schedule for the distributor’s outstanding accounts receivable balance due to us related to sales in prior periods. This distributor had notified us that it believed that we had violated certain provisions of the distribution agreement. We believe such assertions were unfounded. We terminated the agreement with that distributor in November 2010, as we were unable to reach an agreement with respect to these matters. Due to the fact that we were unable to renegotiate the agreement, it is possible that either of the parties may institute litigation asserting various breach of contract claims. Although we have recorded reserves in our financial statements for the inventory held by this distributor and for the outstanding receivables owed by this distributor, if legal action is commenced, we may incur material costs in prosecuting and potentially defending such action. Potential business combinations could require significant management attention and prove difficult to integrate with our business, which could distract our management, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. If we become aware of potential business combination candidates that are complementary to our business, we may decide to combine with such businesses or acquire their assets in the future. Business combinations generally involve a number of additional difficulties and risks to our business, including: • failure to integrate management information systems, personnel, research and development and marketing, operations, sales and support; • disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management’s attention from other business matters; • potential loss of the acquired company’s customers; • failure to develop further the acquired company’s technology; 25 • unanticipated costs and liabilities; and • other accounting consequences. In addition, we may not realize benefits from any business combination that we undertake in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such businesses, or the technologies associated with such business combinations into our company, the revenue and operating results of the combined company could be adversely affected. Any integration process would require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. If our customers are uncertain about our ability to operate on a combined basis, they could delay or cancel orders for our products. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or accurately forecast the financial impact of a combination, including accounting charges or volatility in the stock price of the combined entity. If we fail to successfully integrate other companies with which we may combine, our business could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Our ability to commercially distribute our products and our business may be significantly harmed if the regulatory environment governing our products changes, if the FDA takes enforcement action against us or our competitors marketing similar products, if a third party obtains FDA approval of a NDA for a 4% hydroquinone product for the same uses for which we market our hydroquinone products, or if our contract manufacturers fail to comply with cGMPs. The FDA and comparable agencies of other countries regulate our products. In the United States, FDA regulations govern, among other things, the activities that we perform, including product development, product testing, product labeling, product storage, manufacturing, advertising, promotion, product sales, reporting of certain product adverse events and failures, and distribution. Individual state regulations may also govern drug product manufacturing, distribution, advertising and promotion. The Obagi Nu-Derm, Obagi Condition & Enhance, Obagi-C Rx and ELASTIderm Décolletage Systems contain products that include 4% hydroquinone as an active ingredient and are marketed in the United States without a FDA-approved marketing application under the CPG. We believe that these products are not currently subject to FDA pre-market approval. In August 2006, the FDA issued a proposed rule that, if adopted in its current form, would establish that OTC skin bleaching drug products, such as hydroquinone, are not generally recognized as safe and effective and are misbranded, and could seek to require NDAs for new products using skin bleaching drug products, including prescription skin bleaching drug products. The FDA had indicated that upon adoption of the final rule it intended to consider all skin bleaching drug products, whether currently marketed on a prescription or OTC basis, to be new drugs requiring an approved NDA for continued marketing. In the proposed rule, the FDA recommended that additional studies be conducted to determine if there is a risk to humans from the use of hydroquinone. The FDA nominated hydroquinone for further study by the NTP, and in December 2009 the NTP Board of Scientific Counselors approved the nomination. As a result, the NTP will conduct further studies on hydroquinone. However, there are several more steps to the nomination process before the studies will commence, and the studies themselves can take two years or more to complete. The FDA has noted that, in the interim, it believes that hydroquinone at concentrations of 2% or less should remain available as an OTC drug product. It is our understanding that the FDA is no longer evaluating this proposal and is not intending to take any action with respect to regulation of products containing 4% hydroquinone until the NTP studies have been conducted. However, should the FDA reverse this position or decide upon conclusion of the NTP studies that all skin bleaching products are new drugs requiring an approved NDA, we may be required to withdraw certain products in the Nu-Derm, Condition & Enhance, Obagi-C Rx and ELASTIderm Décolletage Systems until required clinical trials are performed and new drug approvals are obtained, in effect foreclosing us from selling these products. If we are required to seek new drug approval for these products, our attention and resources will be dedicated to the process of obtaining new drug approval, which may be time-consuming and expensive. In addition, we may not successfully obtain such approval or may be delayed in obtaining such approval if one of our competitors obtains approval and nonpatent exclusivity for the same uses for which we seek approval. Other manufacturers of 4% prescription hydroquinone include SkinMedica, Inc., Taro Pharmaceuticals Inc., Valeant Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. If we are unable to obtain such approval we would be prohibited from selling the Nu-Derm, Condition & Enhance and Obagi-C Rx Systems and ELASTIderm Décolletage Skin Lightening Complex, which would have a material adverse impact on our business. As discussed above, the August 2006 proposed rule cites some evidence that hydroquinone may be a carcinogen and may be related to ochronosis. If the NTP studies conclude that hydroquinone is a carcinogen and the FDA determines that such potential health risks warrant a ban on the sale of 4% hydroquinone products, such determinations would have a material adverse effect on our sale of the Nu-Derm, Condition & Enhance, Obagi-C Rx and ELASTIderm Décolletage Systems. The FDA’s proposed rulemaking itself, and the concerns expressed therein relating to the use of hydroquinone, could have an adverse impact on the sales of these products. Certain of our competitors are attempting to use the FDA’s proposed rulemaking to convince physicians and patients not to use our products containing hydroquinone. To date, these marketing efforts by our competitors have not had a negative impact on our sales levels. However, we cannot assure you that such marketing efforts will not have a negative impact on our sales levels in the future. 26 Finally, the contract manufacturers of our hydroquinone products are also subject to regulation by the FDA, especially for compliance with cGMPs. The FDA has increased the requirements for cGMPs. Should the FDA conclude that one of our contract manufacturers or any of its ingredient suppliers is not in compliance with cGMPs, it could allege that our hydroquinone products fall outside the CPG safe harbor. FDA and FTC regulations limit the type of marketing claims we can make about our products. If the FDA determines that any of our marketing claims are false or misleading, or suggest a clinical benefit that is not supported in the studies we have done, we may be required to cease making the challenged marketing claims, issue corrective communications, pay fines, or stop selling products until the incorrect claims have been corrected. FDA or FTC enforcement actions regarding promotional claims, including warning letters, would also divert our management’s attention and create public relations issues for our customers and opportunities for our competitors. We are also subject to review, periodic inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA and comparable state agencies to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. Our manufacturing processes, any clinical trials that we perform, our distribution and our promotional activities are subject to ongoing regulatory compliance. In addition, state agencies also may require registration, licensure and inspection of manufacturing or distribution facilities and may require reporting of promotional activities. If the FDA or any state or comparable agency finds that we have failed to comply with these requirements or later discovers previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or any of our manufacturers or manufacturing processes, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions, including: • fines, injunctions and civil penalties; • recall or seizure of our products; • restrictions on our products, manufacturing processes, or distribution systems, including operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • denial of requests for approvals of product candidates; • withdrawal of approvals already granted; • disgorgement of profits; and • criminal prosecution. Any of these enforcement actions could affect our ability to commercially distribute our products in the United States and may also harm our ability to conduct the clinical trials necessary to support the marketing, clearance or approval of these products, which would materially and adversely affect our business. New regulations could prohibit physicians from dispensing our products directly. In our primary market, the United States, we market our products and systems directly to physicians to dispense in their offices. Most of the products and systems we sell are dispensed by physicians directly to their patients in their offices, although some patients choose to have prescriptions for our tretinoin and metronidazole products filled by pharmacies instead of the treating physician in order to obtain insurance coverage for such products. Although several of the products in our systems contain 4% hydroquinone, our products are not currently available by prescription in the pharmacy. In the event state regulations change to limit or prohibit the ability of physicians to dispense our products directly to patients in their offices or change to limit or prevent our ability to distribute products directly through physicians, patients may be unable to obtain many of our products, as they are not currently available in pharmacies. In addition, several states have recently taken action against a number of our customers who also sell our products to patients over the internet, questioning whether these practices are consistent with such states’ pharmacy licensure and physician dispensing rules. An adverse outcome by any of these states against any of these customers may result in the inability of such customers (including other customers in the state) to continue selling our products over the internet or at all. In November 2009, we received a letter (the “Letter”) from the Texas Department of State Health Services (the “Agency”). In the Letter, the Agency refers to inspections of certain retail businesses in Texas that were selling certain of our products. In that regard the Agency alleged that we are distributing unapproved new drug articles to these establishments in violation of certain Texas statutes. We submitted our response to the Agency in January 2010 indicating why we believe we are in compliance with the Texas statutes. In June 2010, we had an in-person meeting with officials from the Agency to further discuss its concerns. In August 2010, we submitted additional information to the Agency in response to the questions raised at the June meeting but have not had further communication with the Agency at this time. If patients are unable to purchase our products directly from physicians or our customers are prohibited from selling our products in their current manner or at all in Texas or other states, then both customers and patients may purchase less of our products than they otherwise would, which would harm our business. 27 Failure to obtain regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products internationally. We market our products outside of the United States. In order to market our products in many non-U.S. jurisdictions we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. In others, we do not have to obtain prior regulatory approval but do have to comply with other regulatory restrictions on the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products. We may be unable to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing and data review. The time required to obtain approval in non-U.S. jurisdictions may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. If we get approval by the FDA, that does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The failure to obtain these approvals could harm our business. If we or any of our third-party manufacturers do not operate in accordance with cGMPs, we could be subject to FDA enforcement actions, including the seizure of our products and the halt of production of our products. Third-party manufacturers that we currently rely on or will rely on in the future (including ingredient suppliers that these third party manufacturers purchase from) must continuously adhere to the cGMPs set forth in the FDA’s regulations and guidance documents. In complying with cGMPs, we and our third-party manufacturers must expend significant time, money and effort in development, testing, production, record keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other regulatory requirements. The failure to comply with these specifications and other requirements could result in an FDA enforcement action, including the seizure of products and shutting down of production. Our third-party manufacturers may also be subject to comparable or more stringent regulations of foreign regulatory authorities. If our third-party manufacturers (or their ingredient suppliers) or we are unable to comply with cGMPs and applicable foreign regulatory requirements, our ability to develop, produce and sell our products could be impaired. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely primarily on maintaining the confidentiality of our trade secrets and the protection of trade secret laws, as well as a combination of patent, copyright, and trademark (including common law trademark) laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions, to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. For example, our trade secrets may be misappropriated by current or former employees, contractors, or parties with whom we partner, or may be inadvertently disclosed or obtained by breach of a confidentiality agreement. We have recently applied for several patents both in the United States and abroad. These patent applications may not issue as patents at all, or the applications may not issue as a patent in a form that will be advantageous to us or may issue and be subsequently successfully challenged by others and invalidated or rendered unenforceable. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time-consuming and expensive. Competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes comparable to ours even without misappropriating our trade secrets. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, including entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. Further, the parties with whom we enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements could dispute the ownership of intellectual property developed under these agreements. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we are involved in intellectual property claims and litigation, the proceedings may divert our resources and subject us to significant liability for damages, substantial litigation expense and the loss of our proprietary rights. In order to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may initiate litigation. In addition, others may initiate litigation related to intellectual property against us. Companies against whom we might initiate litigation or who might initiate litigation against us may be better able to sustain the costs of litigation because they have substantially greater resources. We may become subject to interference proceedings conducted in patent and trademark offices to determine the priority of inventions. There are numerous issued and pending patents in the skin care product field. The validity and breadth of such patents may involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles may remain unresolved. If third parties file oppositions to our patent applications in foreign countries, we may also have to participate in opposition proceedings in foreign tribunals to defend the patentability of our filed foreign patent applications. We also have worked with consultants in developing our intellectual property portfolio. To the extent any of these consultants are engaged in litigation involving intellectual property related to us, we may also become a party to such actions or otherwise be adversely affected by virtue of our relationships with the consultants. For example, JR, 28 a consultant who helped us develop CLENZIderm, and has granted us a license under certain patent applications that cover CLENZIderm, was involved in a lawsuit in which a third party plaintiff claimed that the owner of JR misappropriated the plaintiff’s trade secrets. A settlement has been reached between JR and the plaintiff, which they claim prohibits our ability to develop new delivery systems or products containing solubilized BPO, the active ingredient in the CLENZIderm products. In January 2005, we entered into a Consulting Services and Confidentiality Agreement with JR, under which, among other things, we hired JR to perform research and development activities including product formulation, product development and regulatory work, as detailed in various statements of work. The initial term of the JR Agreement was for five years; however, in April 2010, we reached what we believed was an agreement in principle for amending the JR Agreement. Although that amendment was never executed, the parties operated under the terms of the agreement, as amended, from June 2010 to September 2010, at which time the JR Agreement terminated. We are currently in discussions with JR on a variety of matters. We have been advised by JR that it believes that certain of our products, including the ELASTIderm line of products, CLENZIderm and Rosaclear, are covered by both issued and pending patents which JR contends are owned by it and which it believes were licensed to us under the JR Agreement. JR contends that such license and our right to continue to sell such products terminated when the JR Agreement terminated. We disagree with JR’s position on this issue and are seeking to resolve this and other issues in our current negotiations with JR. Should we fail to reach agreement with respect to these current discussions, the parties could end up in litigation regarding the ownership rights to these technologies, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely effected. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 15%, 15% and 14% of our net sales, respectively, were related to products that contained technologies covered by the JR Agreement. See Part I, Item 1 “Business – Certain Material Agreements – Jose Ramirez and JR” in this Report for further information. Litigation may be necessary for us to assert or defend against infringement claims, enforce our issued and licensed patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Our involvement in intellectual property claims and litigation could: • divert existing management, scientific and financial resources; • subject us to significant liabilities; • result in a ruling that allows our competitors to market competitive products without obtaining a license from us; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all; or • force us to discontinue selling or modify our products, or to develop new products. If any of these events occurs, our business will be materially and adversely affected. We and our manufacturers and suppliers license certain technologies and patents from third parties. If these licenses are breached, terminated or disputed, our ability to commercialize products dependent on these technologies and patents may be compromised. We have licensed eighteen patents, including patents related to our Vitamin C serums that we have licensed from Avon. We entered into our license with Avon in June 2003, for an initial three-year term, and the license is renewed year to year thereafter, at our option through the life of the last patent to expire (which will be in 2018). These licensed patents contain claims that cover our Obagi-C Rx C-Clarifying serum, Professional-C 5% serum, Professional-C 10% serum, Professional-C 15% serum and Professional-C 20% serum. If one or more of our licenses with Avon or licenses that we have with other parties terminate, or if we violate the terms of our licenses or otherwise lose our rights to these patents, we may be unable to continue developing and selling our products that are covered by claims in these patents. Our licensors or others may dispute the scope of our rights under any of these licenses. The licensors under these licenses may breach the terms of their respective agreements or fail to prevent infringement of the licensed patents by third parties. Loss of any of these licenses for any reason could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. See “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Intellectual Property: If we are involved in intellectual property claims and litigation, the proceedings may divert our resources and subject us to significant liability for damages, substantial litigation expense and the loss of our proprietary rights” and Part I, Item 1, “Business – Certain Material Agreements – Jose Ramirez and JR” in this Report for a description of current negotiations with JR. Further, we purchase products from manufacturers and suppliers who have licensed patent rights to use and sell these products from third-party licensors, and if any dispute arises as to these licensed rights, the third-party licensors may bring legal actions against us, our respective licensees, suppliers, customers or collaborators, and claim damages and seek to enjoin the manufacturing and marketing of such products. 29 In addition, if we determine that our products do not incorporate the patented technology that we have licensed from third parties, or that one or more of the patents that we have licensed are not valid, we may dispute our obligation to pay royalties to our licensors. Any dispute with a licensor could be complex, expensive and time-consuming and an outcome adverse to us could materially and adversely affect our business and impair our ability to commercialize our patent-licensed products. Risks Related to Our Capital Requirements and Finances Litigation, including the Litigation and Arbitration Demand Initiated By Dr. Zein Obagi and Affiliates, Could Materially Impact our Financial Results. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures, distract our management and disrupt our business. For example, if the lawsuit initiated by Dr. Zein Obagi, ZO Skin Health, Inc. and related affiliates resulted in an unfavorable outcome it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, substantial costs will likely be incurred regardless of the ultimate outcome. See Part I, Item 3 of this Report, “Legal Proceedings” and see Note 10, “Litigation” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information concerning this matter. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations, we will be unable to continue to develop and commercialize new products. We expect capital and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we expand our infrastructure, and our commercialization, clinical trial, research and development and manufacturing activities. We believe that our net cash provided by operating activities and existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our operations for the foreseeable future. However, our present and future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, among other things: • the level of research and development investment required to maintain and improve our competitive position; • the success of our product sales and related collections; • our need or decision to acquire or license complementary businesses, products or technologies; • costs relating to the expansion of the sales force, management and operational support; • competing technological and market developments; and • costs relating to changes in regulatory policies or laws that affect our operations. In addition, our future liquidity may be impacted by other factors not related to the funding requirements described above. For instance, in October 2010, we announced that our Board of Directors has given us authority to repurchase up to $45.0 million of our outstanding stock depending on market conditions and other factors. Pursuant to such authority, in November 2010 we repurchased a total of 3,556,910 shares of our common stock from two former stockholders, the Stonington Capital Appreciation 1994 Fund, L.P. and the Zein and Samar Obagi Family Trust (the “selling stockholders”), for a total purchase price of $35.0 million in accordance with the provisions of the Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, among such selling stockholders and us. Additional repurchases under this authorization may include repurchases made through open market or privately negotiated transactions. If our net cash provided by operating activities and existing cash and cash equivalents are not sufficient to fund our operations in the future, we may need to draw down on our revolving line of credit (the “Facility”) or term loans (“Term Loans”) with Comerica Bank or raise additional funds, and we cannot be certain that such funds will be available to us on acceptable terms when needed, if at all. If we are required to draw down on our Facility and/or Term Loans, our ability to in-license new technologies, develop future products or expand our pipeline of products could all be negatively impacted, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business and remain competitive in our marketplace. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, we may be required to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our future products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to expand our operations, develop new products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. Our quarterly operating results are variable, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly results of operations have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: 30 • demand for and market acceptance of our products; • the development of new competitive products by others; • changes in regulatory classifications of our products; • changes in physician or patient acceptance of the use of physician-dispensed products; • changes in treatment practices of physicians who currently prescribe our products; • reduced demand for our products during the summer months due to variability of patient compliance resulting from travel and other disruptive activities, particularly during July and August; • delays between our expenditures to acquire new product lines or businesses and the generation of revenues from those acquired products or businesses; • the timing, release and competitiveness of our products; • increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our products; • the mix of products that we sell during any time period; • increased price competition; and • adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the United States and other major regions in which we do business. Due to the factors summarized above, we do not believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are necessarily meaningful and should not necessarily be relied upon to predict future results of operations. In addition, due to the reduced demand for our products during the summer months as discussed above, our results of operations for the third quarter have historically been lower than our results of operations for the second quarter. We do not expect that this will change in the future. It is also possible that in future periods, our results of operations will not meet the expectations of investors or analysts, or any published reports or analyses regarding our company. In that event, the price of our common stock could decline, perhaps substantially. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or require us to change our policies. Changes to, or interpretations of, accounting methods or policies in the future may require us to reclassify, restate or otherwise change or revise our financial statements, including those contained in this Report. For example, on January 1, 2007, we adopted authoritative guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), included under the Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 740, Income Taxes (“ASC 740”), for uncertainties in our tax positions. We provide for uncertain tax positions when such tax positions do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement standards prescribed by ASC 740. Changes to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, impact our effective tax rate. When particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the effective tax rate. Any resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. Impairment of our significant intangible assets may reduce our profitability. The costs of our goodwill, acquired product rights, distribution rights, and trademarks are recorded as intangible assets and all, except for goodwill, are amortized over the period that we expect to benefit from the applicable assets. As of December 31, 2010, acquired net intangible assets and goodwill comprised approximately 15% of our total assets. We evaluate periodically the recoverability and the amortization period of our intangible assets. Some factors we consider important in assessing whether or not impairment exists include performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of our use of the assets or the strategy for our overall business, and significant negative industry or economic trends. These factors, assumptions, and changes in them could result in an impairment of our long-lived assets. Any impairment of our intangible assets may reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 31 Fluctuations in demand for our products could create inventory maintenance uncertainties and could adversely affect our business. As a result of customer buying patterns, a substantial portion of our revenues has been recognized in the last month of each quarter and the last month of the year. We schedule our inventory purchases to meet anticipated customer demand. As a result, relatively small delays in the receipt of manufactured products by us could result in revenues being deferred or lost. Our operating expenses are based upon anticipated sales levels, and a high percentage of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. Consequently, variations in the timing of sales, or reductions in sales due to ongoing global economic uncertainties, could cause significant fluctuations in operating results from period to period and may result in unanticipated periodic earnings shortfalls or losses. If we overestimate demand, we may be required to write-off inventories and increase our reserves for product returns. If we underestimate demand, we may not have sufficient inventory of products to ship to our customers. Our products have expiration dates that range from 24 to 36 months from the date of manufacture. We establish reserves for potentially excess, dated or otherwise impaired inventories. We may not be able to accurately estimate the reserve requirement that will be needed in the future. Although our estimates are reviewed quarterly for reasonableness, our product return activity could differ significantly from our estimates. Judgment is required in estimating these reserves and we rely on data from third parties, including, but not limited to, distributor forecasts and independent market research reports. The actual amounts could be different from our estimates, and differences are accounted for in the period in which they become known. If we determine that the actual amounts exceed our reserve amounts, we will record a charge to earnings to approximate the difference. A material reduction in earnings resulting from a charge would have a material adverse effect on our net income, results of operations and financial condition. The agreements governing our Facility and Term Loans impose restrictions on our business that may limit our business opportunities and hinder our ability to execute our business strategy. In November 2010, we entered into a new credit facility and term loan agreement (the “Credit and Term Loan Agreement”) with Comerica Bank that superseded and replaced our former credit facility with Comerica Bank (the “Former Credit Facility”). The Credit and Term Loan Agreement contains, and other agreements we may enter into in the future may contain, covenants imposing restrictions on our business, and requires us to maintain certain financial covenants. These restrictions and covenants may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants place restrictions on our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt, create liens, make investments, enter into transactions with affiliates, sell assets, guarantee debt, declare or pay dividends, redeem common stock or make other distributions to stockholders, and consolidate or merge. As of January 31, 2009, we were not in compliance with the non-financial covenant under our Former Credit Facility requiring us to report monthly, a listing of our intellectual property. In February 2009, we obtained a waiver for the month of January 2009 with respect to this covenant. Although we believe we were in compliance with all of our non-financial and financial covenants under the Credit and Term Loan Agreement as of December 31, 2010, our future ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial, and industry conditions. In the event we ever borrow under the Credit and Term Loan Agreement, an event of default under the Credit and Term Loan Agreement would permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we were unable to repay any debt owed, the lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to comply with Section 404 in a timely manner it may affect the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the SEC rules and regulations require an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and an attestation report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Although our independent registered public accounting firm did not identify material weaknesses in connection with its audit of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, we cannot assure you that we will maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future. If we are not able to adequately comply with the requirements of Section 404 we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or the Nasdaq Global Market. Moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have an a material adverse effect on us. Our Board of Directors can issue preferred stock without stockholder approval of the terms of such stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions granted to or imposed upon the preferred stock, including voting rights, dividend rights, conversion rights, terms of redemption, liquidation 32 preference, sinking fund terms, subscription rights, and the number of shares constituting any series or the designation of a series. Our Board of Directors can issue preferred stock with voting and conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock, without stockholder approval. As of December 31, 2010, no shares of preferred stock were outstanding and we have no present plan to issue any shares of preferred stock. Risks Related to Owning our Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. The market price for our common stock has been and will continue to be affected by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • downturns in the global financial markets; • changes in earnings estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earnings estimates; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; • announcements related to litigation; • developments in our industry; and • general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage a takeover you may consider favorable or could cause current management to become entrenched and difficult to replace. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws, as well as Delaware law, could make it more difficult for other companies to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may inhibit an acquisition of our company by a third party: • advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings; • a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; and • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue up to 10 million shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our Board of Directors. Any of these restrictions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. We do not currently intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain all future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS None. 33 