Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Global market and economic conditions may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, resulting in adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operation. In the United States and throughout the world, recent market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower growth through the second half of 2008. In recent months, continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S. economy. During 2008, added concerns fueled by the federal government conservatorship of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Federal National Mortgage Association, the declared bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the U.S. government-provided loans to American International Group Inc. and other federal government interventions in the U.S. credit markets lead to increased market uncertainty and instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. If these market conditions continue, they may limit the ability of our customers to timely replace maturing liabilities, and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and within each period, which makes our operating results difficult to predict and could cause our revenues, expenses and profitability to fall short of expectations during certain periods. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period or within certain periods as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of future performance, as our operating results in the future may fall below expectations, expenses could increase and revenues could decrease. Each of the risks described in this section, as well as other factors, may affect our operating results. For example, our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, our lengthy sales cycle, the proportion of revenues attributable to license fees versus services and maintenance revenue, changes in the level of fixed operating expenses, demand for our products and services, the introduction of new products and product enhancements or upgrades by us or our competitors, changes in customer budgets and capital expenditure plans, competitive conditions in the industry and general economic conditions. In addition, many customers make major software acquisitions near the end of their fiscal years, which tends to cause our revenues to be higher in the third and fourth calendar quarters which coincide with the fiscal year ends of many government agencies and corporations, and lower in the first calendar quarter. In addition, many customers tend to make software acquisitions or purchases near the end of a particular quarter, which tends to make our revenues for a particular period unpredictable for a significant portion of the period in question until software purchase decisions have been made. Since our EnCase® Enterprise product sales are generally large scale license agreements, a short delay in just one of these software sales from one quarter into a subsequent quarter or a loss of one of these potential sales could cause us to deliver results for a quarter that are below projections of securities analysts that follow our results. This could cause our stock price to decline significantly. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address these risks, and we may not be profitable in any future period. If the corporate market for digital investigation software were not to develop, we would not be able to maintain our growth, and our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. The market for digital investigation software is new and is being developed largely through our efforts. Our growth is dependent upon, among other things, the size and pace at which the market for such software develops. If the market for such digital investigation software decreases, remains constant or grows more slowly than we anticipate, we will not be able to maintain our recent rate of growth. Continued growth in the demand for our products is uncertain because of, among other things: • customers and potential customers may decide to use traditional methods of conducting enterprise investigations, such as reliance on in-house professionals or outside consultants to conduct manual investigations; • customers may experience technical difficulty in utilizing digital investigation software or otherwise not achieve their expected return on their investment in such software; and • marketing efforts and publicity related to digital investigation software may not be successful. Even if digital investigation software gains wide market acceptance, our software may not adequately address market requirements and may not continue to gain market acceptance. If digital investigation software generally, or our software specifically, do not gain wide market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain our recent rate of growth and our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. Additional pricing models for our EnCase® Enterprise eDiscovery product could negatively impact our revenue. In the third quarter of 2008, we announced our intention to release a version of our EnCase® Enterprise eDiscovery software that will be billed to customers based upon the volume of data searched, collected, and processed using the software. We refer to this as our Pay-Per-Use model, and we released this software in the fourth quarter of 2008. Traditionally, our pricing model for this software has been based upon a perpetual license, 20 Table of Contents in which the license revenue is recorded once we deliver the product to our customer (presuming all other criteria of revenue recognition have been met). Under this new model, revenue will be recorded as our customers use the software to search, collect and process data, not at the point in which the software is delivered. During the second half of 2008, we signed Pay-Per-Use agreements with approximately 20 new customers which are expected to begin generating revenue in 2009. In the event that customers in our current pipeline choose our Pay-Per-Use pricing model instead of a perpetual license model, we could see a decrease in license revenue from our eDiscovery product. The failure of the legal community to adopt our eDiscovery solution could negatively affect future sales of EnCase® Enterprise, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We expect to derive a significant amount of sales of EnCase® Enterprise from continuing demand for our EnCase® eDiscovery solution. However, widespread adoption of eDiscovery best practices will require a shift in the way the legal community approaches discovery of electronic documents and other electronically stored data. Currently, most large scale electronic discovery projects are conducted by outsourced service providers that manually retrieve documents from each computer subject to review. These service providers have longstanding and entrenched relationships with the corporations that are subject to large-scale discovery inquiries or security breaches and the large law firms that are typically retained in connection with such discovery projects. Corporations and law firms may continue to prefer to use service providers because of these ongoing established relationships, and because the service providers are widely known and accepted within the legal community, and may resist adoption of our EnCase® eDiscovery solution. Moreover, the expense of relying on an outsourced service provider may frequently be covered by the corporation’s insurance policy that is otherwise covering the expense of the litigation, including complying with requests for discovery, while implementation of EnCase® Enterprise and our EnCase® eDiscovery would require a significant unreimbursed capital expenditure by the corporation. The failure of corporations and law firms to adopt our EnCase® eDiscovery solution for eDiscovery could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Courts could reject the use of our products, which would harm our reputation and negatively affect future sales of our products and services. Our software products and services are often used in connection with legal investigations, civil litigation and criminal prosecutions. The admissibility of results generated by our products as evidence in civil and criminal trials is a key component of our customer value proposition. Evidence and the manner used to collect evidence is regularly the subject of challenges in legal investigations and litigation, and our products or personnel may be the direct or indirect subject of such legal challenges. Persons involved in litigation may, for example, challenge the reliability of our products, the admissibility of evidence generated, discovered or collected using our products, and/or the expertise, credibility or reliability of our personnel. Other unpredictable legal challenges may be brought that could reflect upon the reputation of our products or personnel. To date, courts that have addressed challenges to our products or services have ruled against such challenges. If in the future a court were to find that our products are not reliable or that persons representing us or users of our product are not credible, reliable or lack the expertise necessary to serve as a witness or to authenticate evidence, or that our training and certification process does not adequately prepare individuals to conduct competent digital investigations, this could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. We are dependent on our management and research and development teams, and the loss of any key member of either of these teams may prevent us from executing our business strategy. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. In particular, Shawn McCreight, our founder, Chairman and Chief Technology Officer, has been significantly responsible for the development of our products. In addition, Victor Limongelli, our President and Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for a number of our significant strategic initiatives. We are also substantially dependent on the continued services of our existing research and development personnel. We have 21 Table of Contents fewer research and development employees than many competitors of comparable size due to the high degree of expertise required to work with our complex technology and our stringent hiring standards. The loss of one or more of our key employees, and in particular our research and development personnel, could seriously harm our business development, culture and strategic direction. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our executives. Any key person life insurance policy we maintain now or in the future would not be sufficient to cover the loss of any of our key personnel and any such loss could seriously harm our business and our ability to execute our business strategy. We do not have agreements that provide severance benefits for three of our five Named Executive Officers, including Shawn McCreight, our Chief Technology Officer, Larry Gill, our Senior Vice President of Sales, and Mark Harrington, our General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Our failure to retain these key employees could negatively impact our ability to execute our business strategy. John Patzakis, our Chief Strategy Officer, has notified the Company that he will be terminating his employment as of March 31, 2009, to pursue other interests. Changes or reforms in the law or regulatory landscape could diminish the need for our solutions, and could have a negative impact on our business. One factor that drives demand for our products and services is the legal and regulatory framework in which our customers operate. Laws and regulations are subject to drastic changes and these could either help or hurt the demand for our products. Thus, certain changes in the law and regulatory landscape, such as tort law or legislative reforms that limit the scope and size of electronic discovery requests or the admissibility of evidence generated by such requests, as well as court decisions, could significantly harm our business. Changes in domestic and international privacy laws could also affect the demand and acceptance of our products, and such changes could have a material impact on our revenues. We face direct and indirect competition from other software companies, as well as other companies that provide training, consulting and certification services in computer forensics, which could limit our growth and market share. The markets for our software products and services are competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapidly changing technology, shifting customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future as new companies enter our markets, existing competitors develop stronger capabilities and we expand into other markets. Many of our current competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and substantially more extensive resources than we have. They may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can to ours, which could allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new technologies and changes in customer needs and achieve wider market acceptance. Because the barriers to entry into software industry segments are generally low, we expect to continue to face competition from new entrants, particularly as we expand into other segments of the software industry. Several competing companies provide digital investigation software and applications that directly compete or will compete with our products, or offer solutions our products do not address. In addition, if the market for digital investigation software develops as we anticipate, other companies could enter this market through their own software development or through the acquisition of one of our current competitors. If these companies are more successful in providing similar, better or less expensive digital investigation solutions compared to those that we offer, we could experience a decline in customers and revenue. These companies include computer forensic companies, managed security services companies and consulting companies, such as the “Big 4” consulting/accounting firms, many of which have substantially greater resources and customer bases than we do. If our competitors are more successful than we are at generating professional services engagements, our growth rate or revenues may decline. We also compete with companies or organizations that have developed or are developing and marketing software and services that diminish the need for our solutions or the budget available to our customers to 22 Table of Contents purchase our solutions. These companies include traditional security companies, data storage infrastructure and data archiving companies, information management, records management and internal IT organizations that develop their own solutions. Computer hackers may damage our products, services and systems, which could cause interruptions in our service and harm to our business, and hackers could gain access to our customers’ personal information which could result in the loss of existing clients, negative publicity and legal liability. Computer hackers often attempt to access information, including personal information for purposes of identify theft and other criminal activity. In particular, due to the nature of our business, the products and services that we offer and the industry in which we operate, we are more likely to be the target of computer hackers who would like to undermine our ability to offer the products and services that we provide to our customers and possibly retaliate for the results or evidence that our products and services generate. For example, in December 2005, we became aware of a security breach of our electronic records which contained, among other things, credit card information of approximately 5,000 customers. We promptly notified law enforcement authorities as well as each of the customers whose information may have been compromised. We conducted a forensic examination of the incident and took a number of steps to both remediate the underlying cause and strengthen our internal security system, including enhancing our internal information technology security department and redesigning our network architecture. In early January 2006, the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) commenced an inquiry into the December 2005 security breach. In September 2006, we executed a consent decree proposed by the FTC that includes no monetary penalties. The consent decree finds that we failed to implement proper security measures to protect consumers’ data, and requires us to provide the FTC with initial and biennial third-party assessments of our IT security for a period of 10 years. Additionally, the consent decree requires us to maintain a comprehensive IT security program, retain documentation of such program and provide notice of the consent decree to our executives and employees for a period of 20 years. The FTC formally approved the consent decree on November 15, 2006 and subsequently issued a press release announcing the investigation and its conclusion. In April 2007, we received formal notice and service of the decree from the FTC, effectively ending the inquiry. In October 2007, we timely filed the first compliance report required by the consent decree. Given the incident, any subsequent breach of our security could be especially damaging to our reputation and business and may result in monetary penalties if the FTC were to find that the circumstances that lead to the breach constituted a violation of our obligations under the consent decree. In addition, from time to time we may be the targets of computer hackers who, among other things, create viruses to sabotage or otherwise attack companies’ networks, products and services. For example, there was recently a spread of viruses, or worms, that intentionally deleted anti-virus and firewall software. Our products, networks, websites and systems, may be the target of attacks by hackers. If successful, any of these events could damage our computer systems, force us to incur substantial costs to fix technical problems or result in hackers gaining access to our technical and other proprietary information, which could harm our business and results of operations. The complexity of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, could materially affect our financial results for a given period. Although we use standardized sales agreements designed to meet current revenue recognition criteria under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we must often negotiate and revise terms and conditions of these standardized agreements, particularly in multi-product license and services transactions and Pay Per Use agreements. As our transactions have increased in complexity, particularly with the sale of larger, multi-product licenses, negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions may require us to defer 23 Table of Contents recognition of revenue on such licenses. We believe that we are in compliance with Statement of Position 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition,” as amended; however, more complex, multi-product license transactions require additional accounting analysis to account for them accurately. The professional technical guidance available regarding the application of software revenue recognition is very conceptual, and silent to specific implementation matters. As a consequence of this, we have been required to make assumptions and judgments, in certain circumstances, regarding the application of software revenue recognition. Incorrect assumptions or judgments as well as changes in, or clarification to accounting interpretations, could lead to unanticipated changes in our revenue accounting practices and may affect the timing of revenue recognition, which could adversely affect our financial results for any given period. If we discover that we have interpreted and applied revenue recognition rules differently than prescribed by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we could be required to devote significant management resources, and incur the expense associated with an audit, restatement or other examination of our financial statements. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. In preparing our quarterly and annual consolidated financial statements, we estimate our income tax liability in each of the foreign and domestic jurisdictions in which we operate by estimating our actual current tax exposure and assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and financial statement purposes. Our judgments, assumptions and estimates relative to the current provision for income tax take into account current tax laws and our interpretation of current tax laws. Although we believe our judgments, assumptions and estimates are reasonable, changes in tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of any future tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. We calculate our current and deferred tax provisions based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are generally recorded in the period when the tax returns are filed and the global tax implications are known and could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes. Our operating results and business would be seriously impaired if our revenues from our EnCase® Enterprise product were to decline. Historically, we have derived substantially all of our license revenues from sales of our EnCase® Forensic and EnCase® Enterprise product offerings. Although we have introduced new software modules, we expect that our EnCase® Enterprise product offering will account for the largest portion of our software product revenues for the foreseeable future. Although we have no reason to believe that sales of EnCase® Forensic will decline in future periods, we believe that the degree of penetration for our EnCase® Forensic product in the law enforcement market makes it unlikely that revenue from sales of EnCase® Forensic will contribute dramatically to future revenue growth. For this reason, we are dependent on increased sales of EnCase® Enterprise and related products to drive future growth. As a result, if for any reason revenue from our EnCase® Enterprise product offerings declines or does not increase as rapidly as we anticipate, our operating results and our prospects for growth will be significantly impaired. Further, if these products fail to meet the needs of our existing and target customers, or if they do not compare favorably in price and performance to competing products, our business will be adversely affected. We may be limited in our ability to utilize indirect sales channels, such as value-added resellers, corporate resellers, professional services firms and other third-party distributors for the sale and distribution of our products, which may limit our ability to expand our customer base and our revenues. We may be limited in our ability to market and distribute our products through value-added resellers, corporate resellers, professional services firms and other third-party distributors, which we collectively refer to as 24 Table of Contents third-party resellers, due to various factors. Due to the complex nature of our products, sales professionals generally require a significant amount of time and effort to become sufficiently familiar with our products in order to be able to market them effectively, which makes our products unattractive to third-party resellers. In addition, our competitors include professional services organizations, such as accounting, consulting and law firms, that would otherwise serve as a natural distribution channel for our products and related services. Moreover, there is significant competition in our industry for qualified third-party resellers. Even if we were to succeed in attracting qualified and capable third-party resellers, we would likely have relatively short-term contracts and no minimum purchase commitments with any existing and future third-party resellers. In addition, agreements with such third-party resellers are generally renewable annually, not exclusive and may be terminated by either party within 30 days after the initial six-month period of the agreement, and with 30 days notice after the initial one-year period. If we are not able to recruit new qualified third-party resellers, our sales growth may be constrained and our results of operations would suffer. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and if we are unable to protect our proprietary technologies and defend infringement claims, we could lose our competitive advantage and our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary products and services and to defend against infringement claims. If we are unable to do so, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret law, confidentiality restrictions in contracts with employees, customers and other third parties, software security measures, and registered copyrights, trademarks and patents. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors may gain access to our technology, and our business may be harmed. Any of our patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation proceedings. In addition, we may be unable to obtain patent, copyright or trademark protection on products that we spend significant time and expense to develop in the future. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology, unauthorized persons may be able to copy, reverse engineer or otherwise use some of our proprietary technology. Furthermore, existing patent and copyright laws may afford only limited protection, and the laws of certain countries in which we operate do not protect proprietary technology as well as established law in the United States. For these reasons, we may have difficulty protecting our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use. If any of these events happen, there could be a material adverse effect on the value of our proprietary technology and on our business and financial results. In addition, litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. This type of litigation is often costly and time-consuming, with no assurance of success. Claims that we misuse the intellectual property of others could subject us to significant legal liability and disrupt our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because of the nature of our business, we may become subject to material claims of infringement by competitors and other third parties with respect to our current or future software applications, trademarks or other proprietary rights. The legal framework for software patents is rapidly evolving and we expect that software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of software applications and competitors in our industry segment grows. In certain circumstances, the owners of proprietary software could make copyright and/or patent infringement claims against us in connection with such activity. Any such claims, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming and difficult to defend against, result in costly litigation, cause shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties, which may not be available on terms that we deem acceptable, if at all. Any of these claims could disrupt our business, make it difficult to add or retain important features in our products and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents If we are unable to continue to obtain government licenses, approvals or authorizations regarding the export of our products abroad, or if current or future export laws limit or otherwise restrict our business, we could be prohibited from shipping our products to certain countries, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must comply with United States laws regulating the export of our products to other countries. Our products contain encryption and decryption technologies that require us to obtain certain licenses from the United States government in order to export certain of our products abroad. In addition, we are required to obtain licenses from foreign governments in order to import our products into these countries. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining such licenses, approvals and other authorizations required from applicable governmental authorities to export our products. The export regimes and the governing policies applicable to our business are subject to change, and we cannot assure you that such export approvals or authorizations will be available to us or for our products in the future. Our failure to receive any required export license, approval or authorization would hinder our ability to sell our products and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have grown rapidly, and if we are not able to effectively manage and support our growth or retain and attract highly skilled employees, our business strategy might not succeed. In the past we have grown rapidly and we will need to continue to grow in all areas of our operations to execute our business strategy. Managing and sustaining our growth will place significant demands on management as well as on our administrative, operational, technical and financial systems and controls and other resources. We may not be able to expand our product offerings, our customer base and markets, or implement other features of our business strategy at the rate or to the extent presently planned. In addition, our traditionally high level of customer service may suffer as we grow, which could cause our software sales to suffer. If we are unable to successfully manage or support our future growth, we may not be able to maximize revenues or profitability. In addition, in order to be able to effectively execute our rapid growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We will need to hire additional personnel in virtually all operational areas, including selling and marketing, research and development, professional services, training, customer service and administration. Competition in our industry for experienced and qualified personnel in these areas is extremely intense, especially for software developers with high levels of experience in designing and developing software products and sophisticated technical sales people experienced in selling our complex type of software products and selling into government agencies. In order to expand sales of EnCase® Enterprise, we may need to continue to hire highly qualified commissioned sales personnel to directly target potential EnCase® Enterprise customers. These new commissioned sales personnel require several quarters of training and experience before being able to effectively market EnCase® Enterprise, and, as a result of these hires, our sales and marketing expense may increase at a greater rate than our revenue, at least in the short term. The expense of hiring and training these commissioned sales personnel may never generate a corresponding increase in revenue. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining the necessary qualified personnel that our growth plan requires. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we fail to attract new personnel or retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. We also believe that a critical contribution to our successful rapid growth has been our corporate culture which fosters innovation, teamwork and excellence. As our organization grows and we are required to implement more complex organizational structures and institutional programs, we may find it difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture, which could negatively affect our ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced personnel and therefore our future success in continuing to maintain our rapid growth. 26 Table of Contents Our failure to offer high quality training and to attract and retain high quality training personnel could have a material adverse effect on our sales of software applications and therefore have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our services offerings include training programs designed to instruct current and potential customers on the proper process of conducting a competent digital investigation and the most efficient operation of our products. To a significant degree, the pool of potential users of our products is created by the training services we and our partners provide. A high level of training is critical for the successful marketing, sale and implementation of our software products. Finding qualified third-party providers of training services for our complex software products is difficult and time-consuming, and to date we have approved only five such providers. If we or our partners do not effectively train our customers to properly use our software applications, or succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, it would adversely affect our ability to sell additional software products to existing customers in the future and could harm our reputation with potential customers of software products. As a result, our failure to attract and maintain high quality training representatives and personnel would have a material adverse effect on our sales of software applications and therefore negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our software applications may be perceived as, or determined by the courts to be, a violation of privacy rights. Any such perception or determination could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Because of the nature of digital investigations, our potential customers and purchasers of our products or the public in general may perceive that use of our products for these investigations result in violations of individual privacy rights. In addition, certain courts, legislative and regulatory authorities could determine that the use of our software solutions or similar products are a violation of privacy rights, particularly in jurisdictions outside of the United States. Any such determination or perception by potential customers, the general public, government entities or the judicial system could harm our reputation and adversely affect the sales of our products and our results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected based on the fact that, prior to June 2007, we entered into United States General Services Administration (GSA) contracts as a procurement vehicle for federal government agencies that purchase certain of our products and services. These GSA contracts required that we provide our best corporate prices to the government agencies and give the government agencies the right to conduct administrative audits of our performance under such GSA contracts. If we have an unfavorable administrative audit we may be required to reimburse the United States government for costs that they have expended under such contracts. Prior to June 2007, we have entered into GSA contracts in connection with the sale of certain of our products and services. These GSA contracts were intended to facilitate efficient sales to government agencies and provide the government agencies with “most-favored nation” type pricing for the respective products and services on a comparable basis with sales to other third parties. Since June 2007, we no longer contract directly with the GSA and operate under a Government Reseller Agreement with immixTechnology to sell our products via the immixTechnology General Services Administration (GSA) contract to government customers. The GSA and government agencies which purchase our products and services pursuant to GSA contracts are permitted to conduct administrative audits of us as part of their routine audits and investigations of government contracts. For example, the GSA conducted an audit of Guidance for 2005 and issued us an administrative report card with a rating of “successful.” As part of the audit process, the GSA or a government agency may review our performance under the contract, cost structure, including the cost of comparable products and services to third parties, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The GSA or a government agency may also review the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal controls systems and policies, including our purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. If any of our pricing is found to be improperly discounted to a specific contract, the revenue received by us may have to be refunded and 27 Table of Contents an additional penalty may have to be paid by us. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our billings from federal government contracts procured through the GSA were 17% of total billings; such billings in 2007 and 2008 were not significant. Although our risk has been mitigated through our reseller arrangement, we remain subject to audit for periods prior to June 2007. A future audit with unfavorable results could materially affect our competitive position and result in a material adjustment to our financial results. In addition, if a GSA or government agency audit uncovers improper or illegal activities on our part, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including, but not limited to, termination of existing contracts, forfeiture or disgorgement of profits, suspension of future payments owed, fines and suspension from doing future business with the federal government through the GSA. Furthermore, our reputation could suffer serious or irreparable harm if allegations of impropriety were levied against us. If we were suspended from contracting through the GSA, our reputation or relationships with federal government agencies were impaired, or the GSA or these agencies otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business they do with us, our revenues and prospects would be materially harmed. Our business depends, in part, on sales to governments and governmental entities and significant changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of governments and governmental entities could have a material adverse effect on our business. We derive a portion of our revenues from contracts with federal, state, local and foreign governments and government agencies, and we believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to depend on our successful procurement of government contracts. Accordingly, changes in government contracting policies or government budgetary constraints could directly affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Among the factors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations are: • changes in fiscal policies or decreases in available government funding; • changes in government programs or applicable requirements; • the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations; • changes in political or social attitudes with respect to security issues, computer crimes, discovery of computer files and digital investigations; • potential delays or changes in the government appropriations process; and • delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. These and other factors could cause governments and governmental agencies to refrain from purchasing the products and services that we offer in the future, the result of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of our government customers are subject to stringent budgetary constraints. The award of additional contracts from government agencies could be adversely affected by spending reductions or budget cutbacks at government agencies that currently use or are likely to utilize our products and services. Because we offer our EnScript® programming language for customization of and the creation of add-ons for EnCase®, customers or third-party programmers may be able to develop products that compete with our products or reduce the marketability or value of our products. We have developed many of our major products, including EnCase® eDiscovery and EnCase® Information Assurance, to function as applications running on the EnCase® Enterprise platform. We created these applications using the EnScript® programming language. In order to enhance the attractiveness of EnCase® to potential customers and position EnCase® as a standard software for digital investigations, we have made available without charge the EnScript® programming language, which permits users of EnCase® to develop 28 Table of Contents customized add-on features for their own or others’ use, and we have trained our customers on how to write add-on programs using the EnScript® programming language, which is similar to Java or C ##. As part of this strategy, we have encouraged the development of an active community of EnScript® programmers similar to those which have emerged for other software products. While we believe widespread use of our EnScript® programming language will ultimately create demand for our products, customers in the past have developed, and may in the future develop, software for use with EnCase® using the EnScript® programming language, rather than purchasing certain of our product offerings. Losses of sales to potential customers could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. Our success depends in part upon our ability to develop new products and enhance our existing products. Failure to successfully introduce new or enhanced products to the market may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends in part on our ability to develop enhancements to our existing products and to introduce new products that keep pace with rapid technological developments and changes in customers’ needs. Although our products are designed to operate on a variety of network hardware and software platforms, we must continue to modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in network platforms, operating systems, software technology and changing customer demands. We may not be successful in developing and documenting these modifications and enhancements or in bringing them to market in a timely manner. Any failure of our products to operate effectively with future network platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our products and result in customer dissatisfaction. In addition, our products incorporate document viewer technology that we license from Oracle USA, Inc. Our license agreement with Oracle expires in November 2012. In addition, Oracle may terminate this license agreement prior to the expiration of its term if we fail to make timely payments or fail to comply with any other material term of the license agreement. We may be unable to replace this technology if Oracle terminates this license agreement or it expires, or if the Oracle technology becomes obsolete or incompatible with our products. Furthermore, any new products that we develop may not be released in a timely manner and may not achieve the market acceptance necessary to generate significant sales revenues. As a result, we may expend significant time and expense towards research and development for new or enhanced products, which may not gain market acceptance or generate sufficient sales to offset the costs of research and development. If we are unable to successfully develop new products or enhance and improve our existing products, or if we fail to position or price our products to meet market demand, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Errors in our products could adversely affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us, impair our ability to market our products and expose us to legal liability, any of which may adversely affect our operating results. Products as complex as ours can contain undetected errors or failures. Despite extensive testing by us and by our customers, we have in the past discovered errors in our software applications and will likely continue to do so in the future. As a result of past discovered errors, we experienced delays and lost revenues while we corrected the problems in those software applications. In addition, customers in the past have brought to our attention “bugs” in our software exposed by the customers’ unique operating environments. Although we have been able to fix these software bugs in the past, we may not always be able to do so in the future. In addition, our products may also be subject to intentional attacks by viruses that seek to take advantage of these bugs, errors or other weaknesses. Any of these events may result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and services, which would seriously harm our sales, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we believe that our reputation and name recognition are critical factors in our ability to compete and generate additional sales of our products and services. Promotion and enhancement of our brand name will depend largely on our success in continuing to provide effective software applications and services. 29 Table of Contents The occurrence of errors in our software applications or the detection of bugs by our customers may damage our reputation in the market as well as our relationships with existing customers, which may result in our inability to attract or retain customers. In addition, because our products are used in security and forensic functions that are often critical to our customers, the licensing and support of our products makes us potentially subject to product liability claims. Any product liability insurance we carry may not be sufficient to cover our losses resulting from any such product liability claims. The successful assertion of one or more large product liability claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Incorrect or improper use of our products, our failure to properly train customers on how to utilize our software products or our failure to properly provide consulting and implementation services could result in negative publicity and legal liability. Our products are complex and are deployed in a wide variety of network environments. The proper use of our software requires extensive training by the end user and, if our software products are not used correctly or as intended, inaccurate results may be produced. Our customers or our professional services personnel may incorrectly implement or use our products. Our products may also be intentionally misused or abused by customers or non-customer third parties who obtain access and use of our products. Because our customers rely on our product and service offerings to manage a wide range of sensitive investigations and security functions, the incorrect or improper use of our products, our failure to properly train customers on how to efficiently and effectively use our products or our failure to properly provide consulting and implementation services to our customers may result in negative publicity or legal claims against us. We cannot predict our future capital needs and we may be unable to obtain additional financing to develop new products, enhance existing products, offer additional services or fund strategic acquisitions, the failure of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to develop new products, enhance existing products, offer additional services or make strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, technologies, products or services. Any required additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, you will experience dilution of your ownership interest, which could be significant, and the newly-issued securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational and financial flexibility and would also require us to incur additional interest expense. If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance our software products and services through internal research and development or acquisitions in order to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could negatively impact our software products and services offerings and sales revenues, the failure of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions that we may undertake in the future involve risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses, technologies, products or services that we believe complement or expand our existing business, products and services. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • diversion of management’s attention during the acquisition and integration process; • costs, delays and difficulties of integrating the acquired company’s operations, technologies and personnel into our existing operations and organization; 30 Table of Contents • adverse impact on earnings as a result of amortizing the acquired company’s intangible assets or impairment charges related to write-downs of goodwill related to any acquisition; • issuance of equity securities to pay for acquisitions, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders; • potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired companies; • impact on our financial condition due to the timing of the acquisition or our failure to meet operating or synergy expectations for any acquired business; and • assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired company. To date, we have not completed an acquisition. Any acquisitions of businesses, technologies, products or services that we may undertake in the future may not generate sufficient revenues or cost-saving synergies necessary to offset the associated costs of the acquisitions or may result in other material adverse effects. Our international sales and operations are subject to factors that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have significant sales and services operations outside the United States, and derive a substantial portion of our revenues from these operations. We also plan to expand our international operations in the future. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, we derived approximately 23% and 21%, respectively, of our revenues from sales of products and services outside the United States. Our international operations are subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many countries, which risks include, but are not limited to: • difficulties in staffing and managing our international operations; • the fact that foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; • the general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries; • the imposition of, or unexpected adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those pertaining to export duties and quotas, trade and employment restrictions; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • U.S. and foreign import and export laws; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including tax, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; • costs and delays associated with developing software, documentation and training materials in multiple languages; and • political unrest, war or acts of terrorism occurring in the foreign countries in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we currently do business or intend to do business in the future. Furthermore, the occurrence of any of the foregoing factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Insiders control a majority of our outstanding stock, and this may delay or prevent a change of control of our company or adversely affect our stock price. As of February 27, 2009, our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities together beneficially own approximately 56.5% of our common stock outstanding, including 45.3% of our outstanding common stock held by our founder, Shawn McCreight, and his wife. As a result, these stockholders will have control over matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Corporate actions favored by these stockholders might be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control that other stockholders may view as beneficial. Our charter documents and Delaware law may deter potential acquirers of our business and may thus depress our stock price. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company that our stockholders might consider favorable. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may discourage, delay or prevent certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our charter documents may make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, including delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest or other change of control transaction involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction could cause stockholders to lose a substantial premium over the then current market price of their shares. The trading price of our common stock is volatile. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies have historically been highly volatile. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations since our initial public offering in December 2006. Factors that may affect the trading price of our common stock include: • variations in our financial results; • announcements of technological innovations, new solutions, pricing models, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our financial results or changes in the recommendations of any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; and • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole. In addition, if the market for software or other technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences continued or greater loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business or financial results. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. All of our outstanding shares are eligible for sale in the public market, subject in certain cases to volume limitations under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Also, shares subject to outstanding options and rights under our First Amended and Restated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. If these shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. 32 Table of Contents In addition, our founder, Shawn McCreight, and his wife, continue to hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock, as does our Chief Strategy Officer, John Patzakis. Sales by Mr. McCreight or his wife or Mr. Patzakis of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. If our prior S Corporation election was not properly made and maintained, we would be liable for federal and certain state income taxes In October 1998, we elected to be treated for federal income tax purposes as an “S Corporation” under Subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, we elected or were otherwise treated as an S Corporation for certain state tax purposes. As an S Corporation, our earnings were included in the income of our stockholders for federal and certain state income tax purposes. We filed an election to revoke our S Corporation status in December 2006. If our S Corporation election was not properly made and maintained prior to its revocation, we would be liable for federal and certain state income taxes during prior open periods, together with interest thereon and, possibly, penalties. Such taxes and penalties may be material to our operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 