D. Risk factors Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in Item 3 “Key Information – Risk Factors,” Item 5 “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects,” and in Item 4 “Information on the Company.” These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about: — our ability to convince potential customers to use our content management and distribution services rather than the services of other providers, including teleports that are owned by satellite operators; — the future growth of the global broadcast market and the global content management and distribution services market; — our ability to lease additional satellite capacity in order to provide continuity of service to our existing customers, enter into contracts with new customers and expand our transmission service offerings; — the revenues that we may generate from our contracted backlog; — our plans to expand our presence in the United States, Asia and in other markets in which we currently have hosted facilities by acquiring or establishing our own teleports and production facilities; — our plans to broaden our service offerings and to acquire or establish complementary businesses or technologies; — our plans to invest in appropriate infrastructure and personnel to allow us to continue to accommodate global content management and distribution utilizing the latest technologies; 5 — our ability to enter into strategic arrangements with satellite fleet operators; — the growth of the North American and Asia Pacific broadcast markets; — the growth of new technologies, such as high definition television (HDTV) or Internet protocol television (IPTV); — our expected increases in expenses as our operations continue to expand; — entering into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the Euro or NIS; — our intention not to pay cash dividends to our shareholders in the near future; — our belief that our current facilities leases are adequate to meet our needs; and — our estimates regarding future performance, sales, gross margins, expenses (including stock-based compensation expenses) and cost of sales. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “may,” “might,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential” or the negative of these terms, and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on assumptions and subject to risks and uncertainties. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We discuss many of the risks in this Annual Report in greater detail under this Item 3 “Key Information – Risk Factors.” These forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of the filing of this Annual Report to conform those statements to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by applicable law. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We operate in a relatively new market and cannot assure you that it will continue to grow. We operate in a new segment of our industry involving comprehensive, global content management and distribution services for the television and radio broadcasting industries. The continued growth of this segment depends upon a number of factors, including continued growth in the introduction of broadcast channels seeking a global audience, deregulation of broadcasting, and the scope, timeliness, sophistication and price of our services. We cannot assure you that the market will demand such services from us at prices and on terms acceptable to us. A lack of market demand or lack of additional revenues beyond our existing customer contracts would adversely affect our financial condition and ability to grow our business. Significant damage to our principal teleport in Israel would have a material adverse affect on our ability to continue to operate our business. Our principal teleport and playout facilities are located in Re’em, Israel. Significant damage to these facilities, for any reason, including acts of terrorism, could require substantial time and expense to repair, and would require reestablishing transmission links with our suppliers of capacity. Even though our facilities are covered under an insurance policy, the policy may not be sufficient to cover repair costs or the cost of distruption of our services. If this were to occur, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate our business or operate our business profitably. Furthermore, if our customers or potential customers were to be concerned that our principal teleport and playout facilities or our operations were at risk due to a perception of instability in the security situation in Israel, they may be deterred from entering into agreements to use our services. 6 If there is a material decrease in the current level of excess capacity in satellite and terrestrial fiber optic transmission networks, we may not be able to obtain leased transmission capacity on competitive terms. We lease satellite and terrestrial fiber optic capacity and offer this capacity as part of a package together with our other services. There is currently excess capacity in satellite and terrestrial fiber optic transmission networks, which allows us to lease and offer capacity on competitive terms. We may be adversely affected were the amount of satellite and terrestrial fiber optic excess capacity available for video and audio programming to decrease. We need to renew our existing leases and enter into additional leases of such capacity in order to provide continuity of service to our existing customers, enter into contracts with new customers and expand our transmission service offerings. There can be no assurance, however, that there will continue to be excess capacity. For example, high definition television (HDTV) broadcasts require substantially greater bandwidth than conventional television broadcasts, and the success of high definition television (HDTV) broadcasts may lead to a reduction in the quantity of excess capacity. We lease approximately 29% of our satellite transmission capacity pursuant to long-term preemptible leases, which means that the satellite fleet operator can use our transponder to provide service for another customer or to restore service to other customers in the event of satellite or transponder failure. A decline in the available excess capacity might lead our suppliers to preempt the use of some of our leased capacity, increase our transmission costs and therefore reduce our margins, increase costs to an extent that our potential customers would be less likely to pursue a global market, and require us to incur more long-term commitments for capacity without any corresponding assurance of customers for this capacity. If we are unable to successfully balance our supplier and customer capacity commitments, our revenues will decline. We are generally required to commit to lease capacity on a long-term basis. In most cases our commitment is longer than the corresponding commitment that we obtain from our customers. In many cases we are not able to terminate our commitment before its scheduled expiration. If we commit to lease capacity in anticipation of customer orders and these orders do not materialize or are terminated, we will likely still be required to pay our suppliers, and may have difficulty in obtaining commitments from other customers for this capacity. In this case, we would have fixed cost commitments without a corresponding source of revenues. In addition, we lease approximately 29% of our satellite transmission capacity pursuant to preemptible leases. If we commit to provide content distribution services to a customer and the satellite fleet operator then preempts our transponder, we would need to obtain capacity on other satellites with a comparable footprint, or geographic coverage. We may not be able to replace this capacity on economical terms, with the quality of service necessary to satisfy our customers’ requirements, or at all. We would likely need a significant amount of time and incur substantial expense to replace the capacity. The failure of third parties to properly maintain transmission networks we lease from them would adversely affect the quality of the services we offer. We rely on transmission capacity and other critical facilities that we lease from third parties. All of our satellite and terrestrial fiber optic transmission capacity is leased, and we receive teleport services and maintain points of presence (POPs) outside of Israel pursuant to contracts with third parties. We are dependent on the quality of service provided by these third parties. 7 Damage to a satellite on which we lease transponders could significantly degrade the satellite’s performance and result in a partial or total loss of our transmission capacity on that satellite. Similarly, the loss of a satellite on which we lease transponders would result in the total loss of our transmission capacity on that satellite. We cannot assure you that the satellites on which we lease capacity will perform properly or remain in operation for the duration of their expected commercial lives. If we suffered a partial or total loss of leased capacity on a satellite, we would need to obtain capacity on other satellites with a comparable footprint, or geographic coverage. We may not be able to obtain alternative capacity on economical terms or at all. We would likely need a significant amount of time and incur substantial expense to replace the capacity. During any period of time in which any of our transponders is not fully operational, we likely would lose most or all of the revenues that we otherwise would have derived from the leased capacity on that transponder. Similar risks apply to our leased terrestrial fiber optic transmission capacity, as well as to our hosted teleports and points of presence (POPs) outside of Israel. Failure to compete successfully in providing content management and distribution services would have a material adverse effect on our business and could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We compete in the market for global content management and distribution services with numerous commercial and other providers. Many of our competitors have greater technical, financial, human and other resources than we do, and some of them own satellites and teleports on several continents. The principal global broadcasters may prefer to procure services from larger or more established vendors of content management and distribution services, or from vendors with their own satellites, even if our quality and pricing are more attractive. Certain satellite fleet operators, which had typically offered only connectivity, have recently begun to either acquire or partner with teleports and terrestrial fiber network operators to create global hybrid networks. In addition to our direct competitors, numerous companies and governments that operate global or regional fleets of satellites in the United States, Latin America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia may recommend individual teleport operators and service providers (who are our competitors in providing value-added services and service packages) with whom they have relationships. If the overcapacity situation that currently exists with respect to satellite and terrestrial fiber optic transmission networks were to become exacerbated, satellite fleet operators and terrestrial fiber optic networks might engage in aggressive price competition and offer our current and potential customers more attractive prices for transmission than we can offer them. In this case, our current and potential customers may prefer to obtain transmission directly from our suppliers of capacity and turn to other content management service providers or develop their own content management capabilities, rather than to procure a package of services from us. We have a limited operating history in the market for global content management and distribution services and may fail to successfully address the risks and uncertainties associated with our business. We began to provide global content management and distribution services to the television and radio broadcasting industries in 2000. Given our limited operating history in this market and the risks, expenses, difficulties and potential delays associated with a high-technology, highly-regulated industry such as ours, if we are unable to address these uncertainties, we may not be able to expand our business, develop a sufficiently large revenue-generating customer base, obtain additional transmission capacity or compete successfully in the global content management and distribution services industry. 8 Our contracted backlog may not ultimately result in future revenues. Contracted backlog represents services that our customers have committed by long-term contracts to purchase from us. As of March 31, 2007, we had contracted backlog totaling $120 million through 2016, of which $71 million related to commitments extending through 2008. Although we believe contracted backlog is an indicator of our future revenues, our reported contracted backlog may not be converted to revenues in any particular period and actual revenues from such contracts may not equal our reported contracted backlog. Therefore, our contracted backlog is not necessarily indicative of the level of our future revenues. Of our $120 million contracted backlog, which we do not recognize as revenue until we actually perform the services, approximately $96 million, or 80%, is related to obligations to be provided under non-cancelable agreements and the remaining contracts may be canceled under certain circumstances by an advanced notice of between 30 to 120 days, at certain predefined exit dates or by the customers’ payment of a penalty equal to between one and six months’ fees. As of March 31, 2007, long-term contracts constituting approximately 5.3% of our contracted backlog at December 31, 2005 have been cancelled. Cancellations of customer contracts could substantially and materially reduce contracted backlog and could negatively impact our revenues. Our ability to collect our monthly fees with respect to all or a portion of the contracted backlog may also be adversely affected by the long-term financial condition of our customers. If several of our customers become insolvent or bankrupt or experience other financial difficulties which make them unable or unwilling to continue to use our services, our revenue would be adversely affected. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our contracted backlog will ultimately result in revenues. Contracts for content management and distribution services generally extend over several years, which will make it more difficult for us to sell our services to broadcasters who have entered into agreements with other providers of these services. Broadcasters generally seek content management and distribution services over a lengthy period. Contracts for these services generally extend for terms of 3 to 5 years, and in some cases may extend for the expected life of a satellite. Once a broadcaster has entered into an agreement with one of our competitors, we may effectively be unable to obtain business from that potential customer for an extended period. Changes in technology may reduce the demand for our services. The technology used in content management and distribution services is evolving rapidly. The technologies we currently use or plan to use may not be preferred by our customers or changes in these technologies may compromise our business. For example, although satellite transmission is currently the preferred method of point-to-multipoint global distribution, widespread implementation of Internet protocol television (IPTV) broadcasts may reduce the demand for our content management and distribution services. Similarly, to the extent that excess capacity develops in terrestrial fiber optic systems, our satellite-based content management and distribution offerings may be less attractive. If we are unable to keep pace with on-going technological changes in the content management and distribution services industry, our financial condition may be adversely affected. We may acquire or establish additional teleports or complementary businesses or technologies. These acquisitions could divert our resources, cause dilution to our shareholders and adversely affect our financial results. We intend to use the majority of our proceeds from our initial public offering in November 2006 to acquire or establish additional teleports or complementary businesses or technologies. We have not made any acquisitions to date and our management has not had any experience making acquisitions or integrating acquired businesses. Negotiating potential acquisitions or integrating newly acquired businesses or technologies into our business could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns and could be expensive and time consuming. Acquisitions could expose our business to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with entering new markets. For example, once we acquire or establish additional teleports, we will be subject to governmental regulations, licensing fees and taxation in the countries in which those teleports are located. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenue or cost benefits. In addition, future acquisitions could result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company, or issuances of equity securities that cause dilution to our shareholders. Furthermore, we may incur contingent liability or possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business. 9 Because our functional currency is the U.S. dollar but a large portion of our expenses and revenues are incurred in Euros and New Israeli Shekels, our results of operations may be seriously harmed by currency fluctuations. Although our functional currency is the U.S. dollar, we pay a large portion of our expenses in other currencies – primarily payments for transmission capacity in Euros, and to a lesser extent payments for salaries and other general and administrative expenses in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. As a result, we are exposed to risk to the extent that the value of the U.S. dollar decreases against the Euro or the NIS. In that event, the U.S. dollar cost of our operations will increase and our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, a significant portion of our agreements with customers are denominated in Euros or NIS, which exposes us to risk to the extent the value of the U.S. dollar increases against the Euro or the NIS. To date, we have not engaged in hedging transactions. In the future, we may enter into currency hedging transactions to decrease the risk of financial exposure from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the Euro or NIS. Our financial results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to guard against currency fluctuations in the future. Our reported net income and income per share will be impacted by embedded derivatives. Some of our customers and suppliers contracts provide for payment in currencies that are neither our functional currency nor the functional currency of the customer or supplier. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133 “Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and Hedging Activities” (SFAS 133), these contracts are deemed to include an “embedded derivative” in the form of a foreign currency forward contract. Accordingly, our U.S. GAAP statements of operations reflect non-operating, non-cash gains and losses attributable to changes in the fair value of foreign currency embedded derivatives. Although we do not believe that these non-operating, non-cash gains and losses are meaningful to an understanding of our results of operations, they can result in unanticipated fluctuations in our reported results of operations and impact the market price of our ordinary shares. Future consolidations in the telecommunications and satellite industries, or in the content management and distribution services market, may increase competition that could reduce our revenues and the demand for our services. The markets in which we compete have been characterized by increasing consolidation. We may not be able to compete successfully in increasingly consolidated markets. Additional consolidation may reduce the amount of capacity that may be available to us. Increased competition and consolidation in these markets also may require that we reduce the prices of our services or result in a loss of market share, which could materially adversely affect our revenues and reduce our operating margins. Additionally, because we now, and may in the future, depend on certain strategic relationships with third parties in the telecommunications and satellite industries, any additional consolidation involving these parties could reduce the demand for our services and otherwise hurt our business prospects. 10 We depend and rely upon the experience and resources of our shareholders, none of which has any obligation to assist us except as contracted. We receive certain consulting services from our principal shareholders Del-Ta Engineering Equipment Ltd., or Del-Ta Engineering, and Kardan Communications Ltd., or Kardan Communications, pursuant to a management services agreement. If either of them decides to discontinue the services it is providing, we may not be able to obtain alternative consulting services from independent third parties on economical terms or at all. In addition, these principal shareholders provide us with the benefit of their experience and extensive contacts in the industry, which they are not obligated to provide under their management services agreement. We may have difficulty managing the growth of our business, which could limit our ability to increase sales and cash flow. We have experienced significant growth in our operations in recent years, with our annual revenues increasing from $4.4 million in 2000 to $43.3 million in 2006. In addition, during the next few years we expect to acquire teleports in the United States and Asia and to expand our sales and marketing activities. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operational resources, that are required to: — manage a larger organization; — implement appropriate financial and operational systems; — expand our infrastructure to support a greater volume of services; and — expand our sales and marketing infrastructure and capabilities on an international basis. If we are unable to manage and grow our business effectively during this period of rapid growth, we may not be able to implement our business strategy and our business and financial results would suffer. A loss of the services of David Rivel, our founder and Chief Executive Officer, or other members of our senior management could cause our revenues to decline and impair our ability to expand our business. We depend on the continued services of David Rivel, our founder and Chief Executive Officer. Any loss of the services of Mr. Rivel or of other members of our senior management could result in a gap in senior management and the loss of technical and managerial expertise necessary for us to succeed, which could cause our revenues to decline and impair our ability to expand our business. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified managerial, technical, and sales and marketing personnel, we may be unable to develop new services or sell or support our existing or new services. This could cause our revenues to decline and impair our ability to meet our development and revenue objectives. Our success depends in large part on the continued contributions of our managerial, technical, and sales and marketing personnel. If our business continues to grow, we will need to hire additional qualified managerial, technical engineering, and sales and marketing personnel to succeed. The process of hiring, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations is a lengthy and expensive one. The market for the qualified personnel we require is very competitive because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical and sales skills and understanding of our services. This is particularly true in Israel and some of the markets into which we hope to expand, where competition for qualified personnel is intense. Our failure to hire and retain qualified employees could cause our revenues to decline and impair our ability to meet our sales objectives. 11 Volatility in the broadcasting and telecommunications industries may affect our revenues and, as a result, we could experience reduced revenues or operating results. The broadcasting and telecommunications industries in which we operate historically have been volatile and are characterized by fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, these industries have experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product and technology cycles, and declines in general economic conditions. This volatility could cause our operating results to decline dramatically from one period to the next. If economic conditions in the United States and worldwide do not continue to improve or if they worsen from current levels, demand for our services may fail to develop and our revenues may be materially adversely affected. In addition, if in periods of decreased demand we are unable to adjust our levels of lease commitments and human resources or manage our costs and deliveries from suppliers in response to lower spending by customers, our gross margin might decline and we may experience operating losses. If we are unable to provide uninterrupted or quality services, our reputation may suffer, which could cause the demand for our services to decline. Our business depends on the efficient, uninterrupted and high-quality operation of our systems. Our service offerings are complex, depend on our successful integration of sophisticated third-party technology and services, and must meet stringent quality requirements. Our services are critical to our customers’ businesses, and disruptions in our services may cause significant damage to our customers and our reputation. We do not know whether, in the future, we will be subject to liability claims or litigation for damages related to service disruptions. If such litigation were to arise, regardless of its outcome, it could result in substantial expenses to us, significantly divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and disrupt or otherwise severely impact our relationships with current and potential customers. In addition, if any of our services has reliability or quality problems, our reputation could be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our services, which could result in a decline in revenues, a loss of existing customers or the failure to attract new customers. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate, which could cause us to miss expectations about these results and cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline. Our prospective customers generally must commit significant resources to evaluate our services. Accordingly, our sales process is subject to delays associated with the approval process and delays associated with our customers’ preparations to begin broadcasting using our services. This approval process typically lasts 3 to 12 months. This creates unpredictability regarding the timing of our generation of revenues. As a result, orders that we expect in one quarter may be deferred to another because of the timing of customers’ procurement decisions. Therefore, our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate, which could cause us to miss expectations about these results and cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline. Factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate from period to period include: — our service and customer mix; — customer demand for our services; — the timing and success of new service introductions by our competitors and us; — the timing of contracts with new customers; — changes in the price or the profitability of our services; 12 — changes in the availability or the cost of transmission capacity; — the timing of renewal or commencement of our long-term capacity commitments; and — market conditions in the broadcast and telecommunications industries and the economy as a whole. We face potential liability for content broadcast by our customers over our network. Our potential liability for distributing content broadcast by our customers over our network is uncertain. We could become liable for such content based on obscenity, defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other bases. Our standard agreement provides that our customers are fully responsible for the content of their programming, for ensuring that the content conforms to all applicable governmental regulations and for obtaining any local regulatory approvals relating to their broadcasts. The agreement further provides that we are not liable if the satellite fleet operator requires us to suspend or terminate service for any reason relating to content. Our customers are generally required to indemnify us for any financial costs of governmental or third-party proceedings resulting from their content. Although we attempt to reduce our liability through contractual indemnification from our customers and disclaimers, there is no guarantee that we would be successful in protecting ourselves against this type of liability. Even if we were ultimately successful in such litigation, litigation would divert management time and resources, could be costly and is likely to generate negative publicity for our business. We may also be forced to implement expensive measures to alter the way our services are provided to avoid any further liability. We face potential liability for radiation generated by our teleports. Our teleports in Israel generate electromagnetic radiation, which above certain levels can be harmful to people. Although we believe that our facilities comply with all applicable standards in this regard, personal injury claims may be brought against us for harm to individuals allegedly caused by our transmission equipment. Similarly, new, more stringent environmental protection regulations may be promulgated, and we may need to incur significant expense to comply with such regulations. Our business, including the operation of our network, may be vulnerable to acts of terrorism or war. Our network may be vulnerable to acts of terrorism or war. If our facilities, including our headquarters or principal teleport, become temporarily or permanently disabled by an act of terrorism or war, it will be necessary for us to develop alternative infrastructure to continue providing service to our customers. We may not be able to avoid service interruptions if our facilities or the facilities we use are disabled due to a terrorist attack or war. Any act of terrorism or war that substantially or totally destroys or disables our facilities or the facilities of our service providers would result in a substantial reduction in revenues and in the recognition of a loss of any uninsured assets that are substantially or totally disabled. Market prices of companies involved in the telecommunications industry have been highly volatile and shareholders may not be able to resell their ordinary shares at or above the price they paid. The trading price of our ordinary shares may be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors that may affect the trading price include, but are not limited to: — the gain or loss of significant customers; — fluctuations in the timing or amount of customer orders; 13 — variations in our operating results; — announcements of new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; — recruitment or departure of key personnel; — commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; — changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our shares; and — market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole. The trading price and volume for our ordinary shares may also be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If our future quarterly or annual operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. Share price fluctuations may be amplified if the trading volume of our ordinary shares is low. Class action litigation due to share price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Companies such as ours in the telecommunications industry and other technology industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation as a result of the volatility of their share prices. Any litigation of this sort could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. We are controlled by a small number of shareholders, who may make decisions with which other shareholders may disagree. Our directors, executive officers, principal shareholders and their affiliated entities beneficially own approximately 73.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares. The interests of these shareholders may differ from the interests of other shareholders. These shareholders, if acting together, could control our operations and business strategy and will have sufficient voting power to influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the approval or rejection of mergers or other business combination transactions. These shareholders have also entered into an agreement providing each of them with a right to tag along to certain sales of our shares by Del-Ta Engineering or Kardan Communications. In addition, two of our principal shareholders, Del-Ta Engineering and David Rivel, our Chief Executive Officer, are parties to a shareholders agreement, pursuant to which Mr. Rivel granted Del-Ta Engineering an irrevocable proxy to vote all his shares with respect to the election of directors. This concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, or deprive shareholders of a possible premium for their ordinary shares as part of a sale of our company. 14 U.S. investors in our company could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. If, for any taxable year, our passive income or our assets that produce passive income exceed levels provided by law, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders. We believe that we were not a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any prior taxable year and that we will not be classified as a PFIC for the current taxable year, but we cannot determine our status as a PFIC for our current taxable year or for future taxable years until the close of the applicable tax year. If we were classified as a PFIC, a U.S. Holder could be subject to increased tax liability upon the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or upon the receipt of amounts treated as “excess distributions.” Under these rules, the excess distribution and any gain would be allocated ratably over the U.S. Holder’s holding period for the ordinary shares, and the amount allocated to the current taxable year and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year in which we were a PFIC would be taxed as ordinary income. The amount allocated to each of the other taxable years would be subject to tax at the highest marginal rate in effect for the applicable class of taxpayer for that year, and an interest charge for the deemed deferral benefit would be imposed on the resulting tax allocated to such other taxable years. The tax liability with respect to the amount allocated to years prior to the year of the disposition, or “excess distribution,” cannot be offset by any net operating losses. In addition, holders of shares in a PFIC may not receive a “step-up” in basis on shares acquired from a decedent. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares as well as the specific application of the “excess distribution” and other rules discussed in this paragraph. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, please see Item 10.E. “Additional Information – Taxation – U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences – Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Provisions of Israeli law, our licenses and current agreements among our principal shareholders may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, prevent a change of control and negatively impact our share price. Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders, and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential acquisition transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. For example, Israeli tax law may subject a shareholder who exchanges his or her ordinary shares for shares in a foreign corporation to taxation before disposition of the investment in the foreign corporation. In addition, our licenses from the Israeli Ministry of Communications to operate our teleports in Israel impose certain restrictions on ownership of our shares, as described above under “Risks Relating to Government Regulation – Our licenses from the Israeli Ministry of Communications to operate our teleports impose certain restrictions on ownership of our shares. If these restrictions are breached, we could lose our licenses.” These provisions of Israeli law and of our licenses may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. In addition, our principal shareholders have entered into an agreement providing each of them with a right to tag along to certain sales of our shares by Del-Ta Engineering or Kardan Communications. Furthermore, David Rivel and Del-Ta Engineering, two of our principal shareholders, are parties to a shareholders agreement, pursuant to which Mr. Rivel granted Del-Ta Engineering an irrevocable proxy to vote all his shares solely with respect to the election of directors. These agreements, which add to the concentration of ownership in our company, may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of us, thereby limiting the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares and possibly affecting the price that some investors are willing to pay for our securities. Our board of directors could choose not to negotiate with an acquiror that it did not feel was in our strategic interest. If the acquiror were discouraged from offering to acquire us or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by anti-takeover measures, shareholders could lose the opportunity to sell their shares at a favorable price. 15 If we fail to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our business, operating results and share price could be materially adversely affected. Beginning with our annual report for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require us to include a report by our management on our internal controls over financial reporting. This report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year and a statement as to whether or not our internal controls are effective. In addition, if we are deemed an “accelerated filer” on December 31, 2007, the report must also contain an auditor’s attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we are not an “accelerated filer” as of December 31, 2007, then we will not need to include an auditor’s attestation until the annual report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. We have only begun the process to document and evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 are likely to result in significant costs, the commitment of time and operational resources and the diversion of management’s attention. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent auditors are unable to attest that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our business may be harmed. Market perception of our financial condition and the trading price of our shares may be adversely affected and customer perception of our business may suffer. We are incurring increased costs as a result of being a public company. Since our initial public offering in November 2006, we face increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses as a public company that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and NASDAQ, require changes in the corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations are resulting in both a significant initial cost, as we initiate certain internal controls and other procedures designed to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and in an ongoing increase in our legal, audit and financial compliance costs. Our management is also required to divert attention from operations and strategic opportunities, which makes legal, accounting and administrative activities more time-consuming and costly. Risks Relating to Government Regulation If we do not obtain or continue to maintain all of the regulatory permissions, authorizations and licenses necessary to provide our services, we will not be able to implement our business strategy and expand our operations as we currently plan. Aspects of the content management and distribution services industry are highly regulated, both in Israel and internationally. Our business requires regulatory permissions, authorizations and licenses from the Israeli Ministry of Communications, which we have obtained. Furthermore, the use, operation and sale of encryption devices such as those incorporated in our transmission systems and services require a license from the Israeli Ministry of Defense, which we have obtained. The employment of employees that are required to work on Saturday and Jewish Holidays in Israel requires a special permit from the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, which we are in the process of obtaining. These permissions, authorizations and licenses are subject to periodic renewal. Our principal license from the Israeli Ministry of Communications for operation of our teleports is scheduled to expire in July 2008. In addition, the erection and operation of our Re’em teleport site requires building permits from local and regional zoning authorities, which are granted for limited periods and are subject to renewal from time to time, one of which will expire as early as February 2008. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew any of our current licenses or permits when they expire, or that we will be able to obtain any new licenses or permits that may be required for the operation of our business. If our principal license from the Israeli Ministry of Communications for operation of our teleports is revoked or not renewed, we will not be able to continue our operations as they are being conducted today. 16 Under Israeli law, the Israeli Prime Minister and the Ministry of Communications, at the request of the Ministry of Defense and subject to the approval of the Government of Israel, have the right to determine by order that certain telecommunications services, including certain of the services we provide, such as the downlink of broadcasts in Israel, are vital services. If such an order is issued, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Communications, subject to approval of the Government of Israel, may impose various requirements and limitations that may directly or indirectly affect us. These requirements and limitations include, among others, limitations on the identity of our shareholders, requiring that management and control of our company be carried out in Israel, obligations to provide information, limitations regarding the identity of our officers, limitations regarding our corporate reorganization and limitations on transfer of control of our company. In addition, if such an order is issued with respect to us, the Israeli Prime Minister and Ministry of Communications may impose limitations on the transfer of information to certain of our officers and shareholders. Further, if the Government of Israel determines that the State of Israel is undergoing a state of emergency, the Ministry of Communications can expropriate any device that is involved in the transmission of wireless telegraph information, visual signs or electromagnetic waves. During such an emergency period, the Ministry of Communications can also enact orders to sell, buy, erect, use or restrict the operation of any such instrument. Any emergency appropriation or regulation of communications equipment could result in our equipment or frequencies required for us to operate our business being used by the State of Israel, or in our being forced to share with the State of Israel control of equipment or frequencies required for us to conduct our business. We are also required to obtain permits from the Israeli Ministry of Environmental Protection with regard to our transmission antennae and other radiation generating equipment. If the Ministry of Environmental Protection were to impose stricter requirements than currently exist in connection with the renewal of these permits, we may be unable to renew them. In this event, or in the event that we are unable to renew building permits for our Re’em teleport site, we could be forced to relocate our antennae and other equipment currently located at our principal teleport or other teleports, or could be restricted in our ability to expand our teleports. Relocation of our teleports would require significant additional capital expenditures. In addition, relocation of our teleports or significant restrictions on our ability to expand our teleports could disrupt or diminish the quality of the services we provide to our customers. Our licenses from the Israeli Ministry of Communications to operate our teleports impose certain restrictions on ownership of our shares. If these restrictions are breached, we could lose our licenses. Our licenses from the Israeli Ministry of Communications to operate our teleports provide that, without the consent of the Israeli Ministry of Communications, no direct or indirect control of RRSat may be acquired and no means of control may be transferred in a manner that would result in a transfer of control. In connection with our initial public offering in November 2006, our licenses were amended to provide that our entering into an underwriting agreement for the offering and sale of shares to the public, listing the shares for trading, and depositing shares with a depositary was not considered a transfer of means of control. In addition, pursuant to the amendments, transfers of our shares that do not result in the transfer of control of RRSat are permitted without the prior approval of the Ministry of Communications, provided that: — in the event of a transfer or acquisition of shares without the consent of the Ministry of Communications, resulting in the transferee becoming a beneficial holder of 5% or more of our shares or being entitled to a right to appoint a director or the chief executive officer (or is a director or the chief executive officer), we must notify the Minister within 21 days of learning of such transfer; and 17 — in the event of a transfer or acquisition of shares without the consent of the Ministry of Communications, resulting in the transferee becoming a beneficial holder of 10% or more of our shares or having significant influence over us (but which does not result in a transfer of control of RRSat), we must notify the Minister within 21 days of learning of such transfer and request the consent of the Minister for such transfer. Should a shareholder, other than our shareholders prior to our initial public offering in November 2006, become a beneficial holder of 10% or more of our shares or acquire shares in an amount resulting in such shareholder having significant influence over us without receiving the consent of the Minister, its holdings will be converted into dormant shares for as long as the Minister’s consent is required but not obtained. The beneficial holder of such dormant shares will have no rights other than the right to receive dividends and other distributions to shareholders and the right to participate in rights offerings. Our articles of association contain the provisions described above, and any revisions to these provisions in our articles of association may result in the termination of our licenses from the Ministry of Communications. For additional information, see Item 4.B. “Information on the Company – Business Overview – Regulation.” Our ability to establish or acquire our own teleports in countries other than Israel may be restricted by laws prohibiting or limiting foreign ownership. In countries other than Israel, the teleports we use are owned and operated by third parties. Our customers and these third parties are responsible for obtaining any necessary licenses, approvals or operational authority for the transmission of data to and from the satellites that we, via our suppliers, use. Failure by our customers or suppliers to obtain and maintain some or all regulatory licenses, authorizations or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to expand our presence in markets in which we currently have hosted facilities by acquiring or establishing our own teleports and production facilities. The United States has restrictions on direct and indirect foreign ownership of companies holding common carrier wireless licenses that could prevent us from acquiring or owning our own teleports in the United States to the extent we seek to operate the teleports on a common carrier basis. In the event that we seek to operate the teleports on a common carrier basis, U.S. law prohibits more than 20 percent of the capital stock of a common carrier wireless licensee to be directly owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. Additionally, no more than 25 percent of the capital stock of an entity that controls a common carrier wireless licensee may be owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives, or by a foreign corporation, if the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, finds that prohibiting such indirect foreign ownership of the licensee would serve the public interest. The FCC, however, may allow indirect foreign ownership levels in excess of 25 percent, and even up to 100 percent, if it finds that the higher levels are consistent with the public interest. Although the FCC has adopted a rebuttable presumption in favor of allowing indirect foreign ownership in excess of 25 percent by investors from World Trade Organization member countries, including Israel, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a favorable ruling from the FCC in the future. In addition, the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Bureau of Investigation review license applications and can require the applicant to enter into an agreement addressing any national security concerns before the license is granted. Restrictions on foreign ownership of teleports may also exist in other countries in which we would at some future date like to establish or acquire teleport facilities. If we are not able to acquire our own teleports in the United States or other countries, our ability to expand our presence in those markets may be adversely affected. 18 We could in the future be subject to new laws, policies or regulations, or changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, policies and regulations that modify the present regulatory environment in Israel, the United States or other countries in which we may wish to own or operate teleport facilities. For example, a country in which we currently operate without need of a license could modify its laws or regulations to require a license, which we may or may not be able to obtain. Similarly, a country in which we may wish to acquire a teleport could modify its laws or regulations to prohibit or limit foreign ownership, which could impair our ability to acquire a teleport in that country. We are not aware, however, of any specific countries contemplating such changes at present. For additional information, see Item 4.B. “Information on the Company – Business Overview – Regulation.” Risks Relating to Our Operations in Israel Potential political, economic and military instability in Israel, where our principal teleport and our senior management are located, may adversely affect our results of operations. Our principal teleport and our principal executive offices are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations. Since October 2000, terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly. Recently, there has been an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, as well as extensive hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon and in the Gaza Strip. In June 2007, there has been an escalation in violence in the Gaza Strip resulting in Hamas effectively controlling the Gaza Strip. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could harm our operations and cause our revenues to decrease. Furthermore, several countries, principally those in the Middle East, still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may seriously limit our ability to offer our services to customers in these countries. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service. Most of our employees, including some of our senior officers, are obligated to perform several weeks of military reserve duty annually, and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances until they reach middle age. In response to the increase in terrorist activity and hostilities in the region, there have been, at times, significant call-ups of military reservists, including in connection with recent hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of military service of one or more of our key employees. A disruption could materially adversely affect our business. The tax benefits available to us under Israeli law require us to meet several conditions, including meeting export goals and applying plan administration rules, and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. In 2006, we realized tax exemptions and reductions resulting from the “approved enterprise” status of our facilities in Israel. To be eligible for these tax benefits, we must meet conditions, including meeting export goals and applying plan administration rules. If we fail to meet these conditions in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits we might already have received. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels, or at any level. In recent years, the Israeli government has reduced the benefits available and has indicated that it may further reduce or eliminate some of these benefits in the future. The termination or reduction of these benefits may increase our income tax expense in the future. See Item 10.D. “Additional Information – Taxation – Taxation in Israel - Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959" for more information about our “approved enterprise” status. 19 You may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us and our executive officers and directors or asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. All of our directors and executive officers are not residents of the United States and most of their assets and our assets are located outside the United States. Service of process upon our non-U.S. resident directors or executive officers and enforcement of judgments obtained in the United States against us and our directors and executive officers may be difficult to obtain within the United States. It may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the substance of the applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. Furthermore, there is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Israeli courts might not enforce judgments rendered outside Israel which may make it difficult to collect on judgments rendered against us. Subject to certain time limitations, an Israeli court may declare a foreign civil judgment enforceable only if it finds that: — the judgment was rendered by a court which was, according to the laws of the state of the court, competent to render the judgment; — the judgment may no longer be appealed; — the obligation imposed by the judgment is enforceable according to the rules relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel and the substance of the judgment is not contrary to public policy; and — the judgment is executory in the state in which it was given. Even if these conditions are satisfied, an Israeli court will not enforce a foreign judgment if it was given in a state whose laws do not provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts (subject to exceptional cases) or if its enforcement is likely to prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel. An Israeli court also will not declare a foreign judgment enforceable if: 20 — the judgment was obtained by fraud; — there is a finding of lack of due process; — the judgment was rendered by a court not competent to render it according to the laws of private international law in Israel; — the judgment is at variance with another judgment that was given in the same matter between the same parties and that is still valid; or — at the time the action was brought in the foreign court, a suit in the same matter and between the same parties was pending before a court or tribunal in Israel. 21 