D. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry—Product liability claims against us could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages." Although we carry limited product liability insurance, we may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment if a successful claim is brought against us. In addition, the normal operation of our manufacturing facilities may be interrupted by accidents caused by operating hazards, power supply disruptions, equipment failure, as well as natural disasters. While our manufacturing plants in China and elsewhere are covered by business interruption insurance, any significant damage or interruption to these plants could still have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our share price. We are subject to the reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on its internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2014, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective. However, we cannot assure you that material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any material weaknesses in our internal controls could cause us not to meet our periodic reporting obligations in a timely manner or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our share price. The audit report included in this annual report on Form 20-F was prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as a result, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. The independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the U.S. and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the U.S. to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the U.S. and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in 26 Table of Contents the PRC, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms' audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor's audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor's audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. If additional remedial measures are imposed on the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in administrative proceedings brought by the SEC alleging the firms' failure to meet specific criteria set by the SEC, with respect to requests for the production of documents, we could be unable to timely file future financial statements in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Beginning in 2011, the Chinese affiliates of the "big four" accounting firms (including our independent registered public accounting firm) were affected by a conflict between U.S. and Chinese law. Specifically, for certain U.S. listed companies operating and audited in the PRC, the SEC and the PCAOB sought to obtain access to the audit work papers and related documents of the Chinese affiliates of the "big four" accounting firms. The accounting firms were, however, advised and directed that, under China law, they could not respond directly to the requests of the SEC and the PCAOB and that such requests, and similar requests by foreign regulators for access to such papers in China, had to be channeled through the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC. In late 2012, this impasse led the SEC to commence administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the "big four" accounting firms (including our independent registered public accounting firm). A first instance trial of these proceedings in July 2013 in the SEC's internal administrative court resulted in an adverse judgment against the firms. The administrative law judge proposed penalties on the firms, including a temporary suspension of their right to practice before the SEC. Implementation of the latter penalty was postponed pending review by the SEC Commissioners. On February 6, 2015, before a review by the Commissioner had taken place, the firms reached a settlement with the SEC. Under the settlement, the SEC accepts that future requests by the SEC for the production of documents will normally be made to the CSRC. The firms will receive matching Section 106 requests, and are required to abide by a detailed set of procedures with respect to such requests, which in substance require them to facilitate production via the CSRC. If the firms fail to follow these procedures and meet certain other specified criteria, the SEC retains the authority to impose a variety of additional remedial measures, including, as appropriate, an automatic six-month bar on a firm's ability to perform certain audit work, commencement of new proceedings against a firm or, in extreme cases, the resumption of the current administrative proceeding against all four firms. In the event that the SEC restarts administrative proceedings, depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the U.S. with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in their financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about any such future proceedings against the firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, U.S.-listed companies and the market price of their shares to be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents If our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delisting of our shares from the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or Nasdaq, or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our shares in the U.S. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a corporation organized under the laws of Canada and a substantial portion of our assets is located outside of the U.S. A substantial portion of our current business operations is conducted in the PRC. In addition, a majority of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the U.S. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the U.S. upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. court judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, many of whom are not residents of the U.S. and whose assets are located in significant part outside of the U.S. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Canada or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or our officers and directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the U.S. or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether the Canadian or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in Canada or the PRC against us or our officers and directors predicated upon the securities laws of the U.S. or any state. Risks Related to Doing Business in China The enforcement of the labor contract law and increases in labor costs in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our profitability. The Labor Contract Law came into effect on January 1, 2008, and was later revised on December 28, 2012; the Implementation Rules and the amendment thereunder became effective on September 18, 2008 and July 1, 2013, respectively. The Labor Contract Law and the Implementation Rules imposed stringent requirements on employers with regard to executing written employment contracts, hiring temporary employees, dismissing employees, consultation with the labor union and employee assembly, compensation upon termination and overtime work, collective bargaining and labor dispatch business. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which came into effect on January 1, 2008, and their Implementation Measures, which were promulgated and became effective on September 18, 2008, employees who have served for more than one year with an employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from five to 15 days, depending on their length of service. Employees who waive such vacation time at the request of the employer must be compensated for each vacation day waived at a rate equal to three times their normal daily salary. According to the Interim Provisions on Labor Dispatching, which came into effect on January 3, 2014, where the number of dispatched workers used by an employer prior to the implementation hereof exceeds 10% of its total number of workers, the employer shall formulate a plan to adjust its worker employment situations, and reduce the said percentage to within the required range within two years from the effective date. Our labor costs are expected to continue to increase due to these new laws and regulations. Higher labor costs and labor disputes with our employees stemming from these new rules and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents In recent years, our subsidiaries have lost certain tax benefits and we expect to pay additional PRC taxes as a result, which could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. On January 1, 2008, the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, came into effect in China. Under the EIT Law, both foreign-invested enterprises and domestic enterprises are subject to a uniform enterprise income tax rate of 25%. There is a transition period for enterprises that were established prior to March 16, 2007 (the promulgation date of the EIT Law) and were given preferential tax treatment under the previous tax law. Enterprises that were entitled to exemptions or reductions from the standard income tax rate for a fixed term may continue to enjoy such treatment until the fixed term expires, subject to certain limitations. The EIT Law provides for preferential tax treatment for certain categories of industries and projects that are strongly supported and encouraged by the state. For example, enterprises classified as a "High and New Technology Enterprise," or HNTE, are entitled to a 15% enterprise income tax rate provided that such HNTE satisfies other applicable statutory requirements. Certain of our PRC subsidiaries, such as CSI Solar Manufacture Inc., or CSI Manufacturing, CSI Cells Co. Ltd., or CSI Cells, Canadian Solar Manufacturing (Luoyang) Inc., or CSI Luoyang Manufacturing, Canadian Solar Manufacturing (Changshu) Inc., or CSI Changshu Manufacturing, once enjoyed preferential tax benefits, such as a reduced enterprise income tax rate of 12.5%. However, these benefits have now expired. In 2014, only Suzhou Sanysolar Materials Technology Co., Ltd., which is recognized as an HNTE and satisfies applicable statutory requirements, enjoys a reduced enterprise income tax rate of 15%. As most of the preferential tax benefits enjoyed by our PRC subsidiaries expired, their effective tax rates increased significantly. There are significant uncertainties in our tax liabilities regarding our income under the EIT Law. We are a Canadian company with substantially all of our manufacturing operations in China. Under the EIT Law and its implementation regulations, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, enterprises established outside China whose "de facto management body" is located in China are considered PRC tax residents and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their global income. Under the implementation regulations, the term "de facto management body" is defined as substantial and overall management and control over aspects such as the production and business, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. The Circular on Identification of China-controlled Overseas-registered Enterprises as Resident Enterprises on the Basis of Actual Management Organization, or Circular 82, further provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the "de facto management body" of a PRC-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise is located in the PRC. The criteria include whether (i) the premises where the senior management and the senior management bodies responsible for the routine production and business management of the enterprise perform their functions are mainly located within the PRC, (ii) decisions relating to the enterprise's financial and human resource matters are made or subject to approval by organizations or personnel in the PRC, (iii) the enterprise's primary assets, accounting books and records, company seals, and board and shareholders' meeting minutes are located or maintained in the PRC and (iv) 50% or more of voting board members or senior executives of the enterprise habitually reside in the PRC. Although Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by enterprises or enterprise groups located within the PRC, the determining criteria set forth in the Circular 82 may reflect the tax authorities' general position on how the "de facto management body" test may be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises. As the tax resident status of an enterprise is subject to the determination by the PRC tax authorities, uncertainties remain with respect to the interpretation of the term "de facto management body" as applicable to our offshore entities. As a substantial number of the members of our management team are located in China, we may be considered as a PRC tax resident under the EIT Law and, therefore, subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on our global income. If our global income is subject to PRC enterprise 29 Table of Contents income tax at the rate of 25%, our financial condition and results of operation may be materially and adversely affected. Dividends paid by us to our non-Chinese shareholders and gains on the sale of our common shares may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax liabilities or individual income tax liabilities. The implementation regulations of the EIT Law provide that (i) if the enterprise that distributes dividends is domiciled in the PRC, or (ii) if gains are realized from transferring equity interests of enterprises domiciled in the PRC, then such dividends and capital gains will be treated as China-sourced income. Currently there are no detailed rules governing the procedures and specific criteria for determining what it means to be domiciled in the PRC. As a result, it is not clear how the concept of "China domicile" will be interpreted under the EIT Law. The concept of domicile may be interpreted as the jurisdiction where the enterprise is a tax resident. Therefore, if we are considered a PRC tax resident enterprise for tax purposes, any dividends we pay to our overseas shareholders as well as any gains realized by such holders from the transfer of our common shares may be regarded as China-sourced income and, consequently, be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10% or a lower treaty rate for enterprises. Under the Law of the People's Republic of China on Individual Income Tax, or IIT Law, individual income tax is payable on PRC-source dividend income. The implementation regulations of the IIT Law provide that income from dividends derived from companies, enterprises and other economic organizations in China is considered derived from sources inside China, regardless of whether the place of payment was inside China. Therefore, if we are treated as a PRC resident enterprise for tax purposes, any dividends we pay to our overseas individual shareholders as well as any gains realized by such holders from the transfer of our notes or common shares may be regarded as China-sourced income and, consequently, be subject to PRC individual income tax at a rate of up to 20% or a lower treaty rate for individuals. The investment returns of our overseas investors, and the value of their investments in us, may be materially and adversely affected if any interest or dividends we pay to them, or any gains realized by them on the transfer of our common shares, are subject to PRC tax. We face uncertainty from the PRC State Administration of Taxation's Announcement on Several Issues Concerning the Enterprise Income Tax on Indirect Property Transfer by Non-Resident Enterprises. The PRC State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, issued the Circular on Strengthening the Management of Enterprise Income Tax Collection of Income Derived by Non-resident Enterprises from Equity Transfers, or Circular 698, on December 10, 2009. Under Circular 698, an overseas investor (actual controlling party) who "indirectly transfers" the equity of a PRC resident enterprise, is required to report such transfer to the PRC tax authority if certain statutory requirements are satisfied. In March 2015, the SAT issued the Announcement on Several Issues Concerning the Enterprise Income Tax on Indirect Property Transfer by Non-Resident Enterprises, or Announcement 7, which further regulated and strengthened the administration of enterprise income tax on indirect transfer of properties such as equity in a Chinese resident enterprise, and the above stipulations of Circular 698 were repealed simultaneously. Under Announcement 7, where a non-resident enterprise indirectly transfers properties, such as equity of Chinese resident enterprises, without any reasonable commercial purposes with the aim of avoiding payment of enterprise income tax, such indirect transfer shall be reclassified as a direct transfer of equity of a Chinese resident enterprise. Properties such as equity in Chinese resident enterprises mentioned in Announcement 7 mean the properties, or Chinese taxable properties, which are directly held by non-resident enterprises and subject the transfer income to enterprise income tax in China according to the provisions of Chinese tax law. Indirect transfers of Chinese taxable properties 30 Table of Contents are transactions which transfer the equity of enterprises abroad that directly or indirectly hold Chinese taxable properties (not including Chinese resident enterprises registered abroad). To estimate reasonable commercial purposes, all arrangements related to the indirect transfer of Chinese taxable properties must be considered comprehensively and certain factors, such as whether the main value of the equity of enterprises abroad is directly or indirectly from the Chinese taxable properties, must be comprehensively analyzed. Except for the circumstances stipulated therein, the overall arrangements related to the indirect transfer of Chinese taxable properties that fall in any of the following circumstances simultaneously are deemed as having no reasonable commercial purposes: (i) more than 75% of the equity of enterprises abroad is directly or indirectly from Chinese taxable properties; (ii) more than 90% of the total assets (not including cash) of enterprises abroad is directly or indirectly composed of investment in the territory of China at any time in the year before the indirect transfer of Chinese taxable properties, or more than 90% of the income of enterprises abroad is directly or indirectly from the territory of China in the year before the indirect transfer of Chinese taxable properties; (iii) although the enterprises abroad and their subordinate enterprises directly or indirectly hold Chinese taxable properties have registered in the host country (region) in order to satisfy the organization form required by law, the functions actually performed and the risks undertaken are limited and are not sufficient to prove the economic essence; or (iv) the burden of income tax of indirect transfer of Chinese taxable properties payable abroad is lower than the possible burden of taxation in China as for the direct transfer of Chinese taxable properties. However, a non-resident enterprise's income obtained from indirect transfer of Chinese taxable properties by purchasing and selling equity of the same listed enterprise abroad in the open market will not be taxed under Announcement 7. There is uncertainty as to the application of Announcement 7 and it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding reasonable commercial purposes. As a result, we may become at risk of being taxed under Announcement 7 and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Announcement 7 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Announcement 7, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Generally, we do not believe that the transfer of our common shares or the notes by our non-PRC shareholders would be treated as an indirect transfer of equity in our PRC subsidiaries subject to Announcement 7, as the equity transfer is seldom carried out without reasonable commercial purposes. Especially, according to Announcement 7, it shall not be reclassified as a direct transfer of equity in Chinese resident enterprise that a non-resident enterprise obtains income from indirect transfer of Chinese taxable properties by purchasing and selling equity of the same listed enterprise abroad in the open market. However, there is uncertainty as to the interpretation and application of Announcement 7 by the PRC tax authorities in practice. If you are required to pay PRC tax on the transfer of our shares or notes, your investment in us may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we cannot predict how Announcement 7 will affect our financial condition or results of operations. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Certain of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. If our revenues denominated in Renminbi increase or our expenses denominated in Renminbi decrease in the future, we may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations. Under China's existing foreign exchange regulations, our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. 31 Table of Contents Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiaries under most capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or registration with PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts, must approve these capital contributions. These limitations could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through equity financing. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could materially and adversely affect us. We conduct substantially all of our manufacturing operations through our subsidiaries in China. These subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises and joint venture companies. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system is still developing, the implementation and enforcement of many laws, regulations and rules may be inconsistent, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and may result in substantial costs and divert our resources and the attention of our management. Risks Related to Our Common Shares We may issue additional common shares, other equity or equity-linked or debt securities, which may materially and adversely affect the price of our common shares. Hedging activities may depress the trading price of our common shares. We may issue additional equity, equity-linked or debt securities for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to satisfy our obligations for the repayment of existing indebtedness, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. Any future issuances of equity securities or equity-linked securities could substantially dilute the interests of our existing shareholders and may materially and adversely affect the price of our common shares. We cannot predict the timing or size of any future issuances or sales of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, or the effect, if any, that such issuances or sales, may have on the market price of our common shares. Market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. The market price for our common shares may be volatile. The market price for our common shares has been highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. During the period from November 9, 2006, the first day on which our common shares were listed on the Nasdaq, until December 31, 2014, the market price of our shares has ranged from $1.95 to $51.80 per share. The closing market price of our common shares on December 31, 2014 was $24.19 per share. From January 1, 2015 to April 20, 2015, the market price of our common shares has ranged from $18.68 to $36.48 per share. The closing market price of our common shares on April 20, 2015 was $35.25.The market price of our common shares may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to a wide variety of factors, including the following: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; 32 Table of Contents • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other solar power companies; • the departure of executive officers and key research personnel; • patent litigation and other intellectual property disputes; • litigation and other disputes with our long-term suppliers; • fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, the Japanese yen, the RMB, the Canadian dollar and the Euro; • SEC investigation or private securities litigation; • the release or expiration of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding common shares; and • sales or anticipated sales of additional common shares. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material and adverse effect on the price of our common shares. Substantial future sales of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the price of our common shares to decline. Sales of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. As of December 31, 2014, we had 55,161,856 common shares outstanding. The number of common shares outstanding and available for sale will increase when our employees and former employees who are holders of restricted share units and options to acquire our common shares become entitled to the underlying shares under the terms of their units or options. To the extent these shares are sold into the market, the market price of our common shares could decline. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make these rights available in the U.S. unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. Our articles of continuance contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common shares. The following provisions in our amended articles of continuance may deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by delaying or preventing a change of control of our company: • Our board of directors has the authority, without approval from the shareholders, to issue an unlimited number of preferred shares in one or more series. Our board of directors may 33 Table of Contents establish the number of shares to be included in each such series and may fix the designations, preferences, powers and other rights of the shares of a series of preferred shares. • Our board of directors is entitled to fix and may change the number of directors within the minimum and maximum number of directors provided for in our articles. Our board of directors may appoint one or more additional directors to hold office for a term expiring no later than the close of the next annual meeting of shareholders, subject to the limitation that the total number of directors so appointed may not exceed one-third of the number of directors elected at the previous annual meeting of shareholders. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our common shares. Based on the current and anticipated value of our assets and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2014. A non-U.S. corporation such as ourselves will be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any taxable year if applying applicable look-through rules, either (i) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (determined based on a quarterly average) during such year is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. However, the determination of PFIC status is based on an annual determination that cannot be made until the close of a taxable year, involves extensive factual investigation, including ascertaining the fair market value of all of our assets on a quarterly basis and the character of each item of income that we earn, and is subject to uncertainty in several respects. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for any taxable year or that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will not take a contrary position. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined in "Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation") holds a common share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. Holder. See "Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company." 