D. Risk factors. The Corporation operates in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The risks described below should be considered carefully when assessing an investment in the Corporation’s common shares. The occurrence of any of the following events could harm the Corporation. If these events occur, the trading price of the Corporation’s common shares could decline, and shareholders may lose part or even all of their investment. The Corporation faces numerous risks as an exploration and development stage company. The Corporation is engaged in the business of acquiring and exploring mineral properties in the hope of locating economic deposits of minerals. The Corporation’s property interests are in the exploration and development stage only. Accordingly, there is little likelihood that the Corporation will realize profits in the short term. Any profitability in the future from the Corporation’s business will be dependent upon development of an economic deposit of minerals and further exploration and development of other economic deposits of minerals, each of which is subject to numerous risk factors. Further, there can be no assurance, even when an economic deposit of minerals is located, that any of the Corporation's property interests can be commercially mined. The exploration and development of mineral deposits involve a high degree of financial risk over a significant period of time which a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge of - 6 - - management may not eliminate. While discovery of additional ore-bearing structures may result in substantial rewards, few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. It is impossible to ensure that the current exploration programs of the Corporation will result in profitable commercial mining operations. The profitability of the Corporation's operations will be, in part, directly related to the cost and success of its exploration and development programs which may be affected by a number of factors. Substantial expenditures are required to establish resources and reserves which are sufficient to commercially mine some of the Corporation's properties and to construct, complete and install mining and processing facilities in those properties that are actually mined and developed. The price of uranium is affected by demand. The price of uranium fluctuates. The future direction of the price of uranium will depend on numerous factors beyond the Corporation’s control including international, economic and political trends, governmental regulations, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates, global or regional consumption patterns, speculative activities and increased production due to new extraction developments and improved extraction and production methods. The effect of these factors on the price of uranium, and therefore on the economic viability of the Corporation’s properties, cannot accurately be predicted. As the Corporation is only at the exploration and development stage, it is not yet possible for it to adopt specific strategies for controlling the impact of fluctuations in the price of uranium. The only market for uranium is nuclear power plants world wide, and there are a limited number of customers. The marketability of uranium and acceptance of uranium mining is subject to numerous factors beyond the control of the Corporation. The price of uranium may experience volatile and significant price movements over short periods of time. Factors affecting the market and price include demand for nuclear power, political and economic conditions in uranium mining, producing and consuming countries, reprocessing of spent fuel and the re-enrichment of depleted uranium tails or waste, sales of excess civilian and military inventories (including from the dismantling of nuclear weapons) by governments and industry participants, and production levels and costs of production in geographical areas such as Russia, Africa and Australia. Deregulation of the electrical utility industry and acceptance of nuclear energy affects the demand for uranium. The Corporation’s future prospects are tied directly to the electrical utility industry worldwide. Deregulation of the utility industry, particularly in the United States and Europe, is expected to affect the market for nuclear and other fuels for years to come, and may result in a wide range of outcomes including the expansion or the premature shutdown of nuclear reactors. Maintaining the demand for uranium at current levels and future growth in demand will depend upon acceptance of the nuclear technology as a means of generating electricity. Lack of public acceptance of nuclear technology would adversely affect the demand for nuclear power and potentially increase the regulation of the nuclear power industry. The Corporation’s share price is subject to significant fluctuations. The value of the Corporation’s common shares could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly and yearly operating results, the success of the Corporation's business strategy, competition, financial markets, commodity prices or applicable regulations which may affect the business of the Corporation and other factors. While the Corporation has mineral resources, it currently does not have any mineral reserves. Calculations of mineral resources and recovery are only estimates, and there can be no assurance about the quantity and grade of minerals until reserves or resources are actually mined. Until reserves or resources are actually mined and processed, the quantity of reserves or resources and grades must be considered as estimates only. In addition, the quantity of reserves or resources may vary depending on - 7 - - commodity prices. Any material change in the quantity of resources, grade, or production costs may affect the economic viability of the Corporation’s properties. The Corporation is dependent on key personnel, contractors and service providers, the loss of whom could harm the Corporation’s business. Shareholders will be relying on the good faith, experience and judgment of the Corporation’s management and advisors in supervising and providing for the effective management of the business and the operations of the Corporation and in selecting and developing new investment and expansion opportunities. The Corporation may need to recruit additional qualified employees, contractors and service providers to supplement existing management, the availability of which cannot be assured. The Corporation will be dependent on a relatively small number of key persons including specifically W. William Boberg, President and Chief Executive Officer, Harold Backer, Executive Vice President, Geology & Exploration and Wayne Heili, Vice President, Mining & Engineering, the loss of any one of whom could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s business and operations. The Corporation does not hold key man insurance in respect of any of its executive officers. Mining operations involve a high degree of risk and the results of exploration and ultimate productions are highly uncertain. The exploration for, and development of, mineral deposits involves significant risks which a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. While the discovery of an ore body may result in substantial rewards, few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Major expenses may be required to establish ore reserves, to develop metallurgical processes and to construct mining and processing facilities at a particular site. It is impossible to ensure that the current exploration and development programs planned by the Corporation will result in a profitable commercial operation. Whether a mineral deposit will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, some of which are the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as uranium prices which are highly cyclical and government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of uranium and environmental protection. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in the Corporation not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. Mining operations generally involve a high degree of risk. The Corporation's operations will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally encountered in the exploration and development of uranium, including unusual and unexpected geology formations, flooding and other conditions involved in the drilling and removal of material, any of which could result in damage to, or destruction of, mines and other producing facilities, damage to life or property, environmental damage and possible legal liability. Permitting, licensing and approval processes are required for the Corporation’s operations and obtaining and maintaining these permits and licenses is subject to many conditions which the Corporation may be unable to achieve. Many of the operations of the Corporation require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. The Corporation believes it holds or is in the process of obtaining all necessary licenses and permits to carry on the activities which it is currently conducting under applicable laws and regulations. Such licenses and permits are subject to changes in regulations and changes in various operating circumstances. There can be no guarantee that the Corporation will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to maintain its exploration and mining activities including constructing mines or milling facilities and commencing operations of any of its exploration properties. In addition, if the Corporation proceeds to production on any exploration property, it must obtain and comply with permits and licenses which may contain specific conditions concerning operating procedures, water use, the discharge of various materials into or on land, air or water, waste disposal, spills, environmental studies, abandonment and restoration plans and financial assurances. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to obtain such permits and licenses or that it will be able to comply with any such conditions. - 8 - - The Corporation’s operations are subject to many regulatory requirements. The Corporation's business is subject to various federal, state, provincial and local laws governing prospecting and development, taxes, labor standards and occupational health, mine and radiation safety, toxic substances, environmental protection and other matters. Exploration and development are also subject to various federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws impose high standards on the mining industry to monitor the discharge of waste water and report the results of such monitoring to regulatory authorities, to reduce or eliminate certain effects on or into land, water or air, to progressively restore mine properties, to manage hazardous wastes and materials and to reduce the risk of worker accidents. A violation of these laws may result in the imposition of substantial fines and other penalties and potentially expose the Corporation to litigation. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to meet all the regulatory requirements in a timely manner or without significant expense or that the regulatory requirements will not change to delay or prohibit the Corporation from proceeding with certain exploration and development. Possible Amendment to Mining law of 1872 may significantly impact the Corporation’s ability to develop certain unpatented mining claims. Members of the United States Congress have repeatedly introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the United States Mining Law of 1872, as amended. If enacted, such legislation could change the cost of holding unpatented mining claims and could significantly impact the Corporation’s ability to develop mineralized material on unpatented mining claims. Such bills have proposed, among other things, to either eliminate or greatly limit the right to a mineral patent and to impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims. Although it is impossible to predict at this point what any legislated royalties might be, enactment could adversely affect the potential for development of such mining claims and the economics of existing operating mines on federal unpatented mining claims. Passage of such legislation could adversely affect the financial performance of the Corporation. Competition from larger or better capitalized companies may affect the Corporation’s share prices and the Corporation’s ability to acquire properties. The international uranium industry is highly competitive. The Corporation's activities are directed toward the search, evaluation, acquisition and development of uranium deposits. There is no certainty that the expenditures to be made by the Corporation will result in discoveries of commercial quantities of uranium deposits. There is aggressive competition within the mining industry for the discovery and acquisition of properties considered to have commercial potential. The Corporation will compete with other interests, many of which have greater financial resources than it will have, for the opportunity to participate in promising projects. Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from successful exploration and development efforts. Nuclear energy competes with other sources of energy, including oil, natural gas, coal and hydro-electricity. These other energy sources are to some extent interchangeable with nuclear energy, particularly over the longer term. Lower prices of oil, natural gas, coal and hydro-electricity may result in lower demand for uranium concentrate and uranium conversion services. Furthermore, the growth of the uranium and nuclear power industry beyond its current level will depend upon continued and increased acceptance of nuclear technology as a means of generating electricity. Because of unique political, technological and environmental factors that affect the nuclear industry, the industry is subject to public opinion risks which could have an adverse impact on the demand for nuclear power and increase the regulation of the nuclear power industry. Uncertain global economic conditions will affect the Corporation and its common share price. Current conditions in the domestic and global economies are uncertain. There continues to be a high level of market instability and market volatility with unpredictable and uncertain financial market projections. The impacts of a global recession or depression, commodity price fluctuations, the availability of capital and the acceptance of nuclear energy may have consequences on the Corporation and its share price. In addition, it could have consequences on the nuclear industry’s ability to finance future construction of nuclear generating facilities. Global financial problems and lack of confidence in the strength of global financial institutions have - 9 - - created many economic and political uncertainties that have impacted the global economy. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth for the world economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth in various parts of the world economy, including the markets in which the Corporation participates. All components of the Corporation's budgeting and forecasting are dependent on commodity prices and their fluctuations as well as political acceptance and policy. The prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future expenditures difficult. The Corporation will need to obtain additional funding in the medium to long term in order to implement the Corporation’s business plan, and the inability to obtain it could cause the Corporation’s business plan to fail. Additional funds will be required for future exploration and development. The source of future funds available to the Corporation is through the sale of additional equity capital, proceeds from the exercise of convertible equity instruments outstanding or borrowing of funds. There is no assurance that such funding will be available to the Corporation. Furthermore, even if such financing is successfully completed, there can be no assurance that it will be obtained on terms favorable to the Corporation or will provide the Corporation with sufficient funds to meet its objectives, which may adversely affect the Corporation's business and financial position. In addition, any future equity financings by the Corporation may result in substantial dilution for existing shareholders of the Corporation. The Corporation lacks a history of earnings and dividend record. The Corporation has no earnings or dividend record. It has not paid dividends on its common shares since incorporation and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. Payments of any dividends will be at the discretion of the board of directors of the Corporation after taking into account many factors, including the Corporation’s financial condition and current and anticipated cash needs. The impact of hedging activities may affect the Corporation’s profitability. Although the Corporation has no present intention to do so, it may hedge a portion of its future uranium production to protect it against low uranium prices and/or to satisfy covenants required to obtain project financings. Hedging activities are intended to protect the Corporation from the fluctuations of the price of uranium and to minimize the effect of declines in uranium prices on results of operations for a period of time. Although hedging activities may protect a company against low uranium prices, they may also limit the price that can be realized on uranium that is subject to forward sales and call options where the market price of uranium exceeds the uranium price in a forward sale or call option contract. The Corporation’s operations are subject to environmental risks and compliance with environmental regulations which are increasing and costly. Environmental legislation and regulation is evolving in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. Compliance with environmental quality requirements and reclamation laws imposed by federal, state, provincial, and local governmental authorities may require significant capital outlays, materially affect the economics of a given property, cause material changes or delays in intended activities, and potentially expose the Corporation to litigation. These authorities may require the Corporation to prepare and present data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of minerals may have upon the environment. The requirements imposed by any such authorities may be costly, time consuming, and may delay operations. Future legislation and regulations designed to protect the environment, as well as future interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may require substantial increases in costs for equipment and operating costs and delays, interruptions, or a termination of operations. The Corporation cannot accurately predict or estimate the impact of any such future laws or regulations, or future interpretations of existing laws and regulations, on the Corporation’s operations. Historic mining activities have occurred on and around certain of the Corporation’s properties. If such historic activities have resulted in releases or threatened releases - 10 - - of regulated substances to the environment, potential for liability may exist under federal or state remediation statutes. The Corporation’s title to certain properties may be uncertain. Although the Corporation has obtained title opinions with respect to certain of its properties and has taken reasonable measures to ensure proper title to its properties, there is no guarantee that title to any of its properties will not be challenged or impugned. Third parties may have valid claims underlying portions of the Corporation's interests. The Corporation’s mineral properties in the United States consist of leases to private mineral rights, leases covering state lands and unpatented mining claims. Many of the Corporation’s mining properties in the United States are unpatented mining claims to which the Corporation has only possessory title. Because title to unpatented mining claims is subject to inherent uncertainties, it is difficult to determine conclusively ownership of such claims. These uncertainties relate to such things as sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper posting and marking of boundaries and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from descriptions of record. The present status of the Corporation’s unpatented mining claims located on public lands allows the Corporation the exclusive right to mine and remove valuable minerals. The Corporation is allowed to use the surface of the public lands solely for purposes related to mining and processing the mineral-bearing ores. However, legal ownership of the land remains with the United States. The Corporation remains at risk that the mining claims may be forfeited either to the United States or to rival private claimants due to failure to comply with statutory requirements. The Corporation has taken or will take all curative measures to ensure proper title to its properties where necessary and where possible. The Corporation may be subject to aboriginal land claims. Certain properties in which the Corporation has an interest may be the subject of aboriginal land claims. As a result of these claims, the Corporation may be significantly delayed on unable to pursue exploration and production activities in respect of these properties or may have to expend considerable management resources and funds to adequately meet the regulatory requirements to pursue activities in respect of these properties. Some hazards which the Corporation may face are uninsurable. The Corporation currently carries insurance coverage for general liability, directors’ and officers’ liability and other matters. The Corporation intends to carry insurance to protect against certain risks in such amounts as it considers adequate. The nature of the risks the Corporation faces in the conduct of its operations is such that liabilities could exceed policy limits in any insurance policy or could be excluded from coverage under an insurance policy. The potential costs that could be associated with any liabilities not covered by insurance or in excess of insurance coverage or compliance with applicable laws and regulations may cause substantial delays and require significant capital outlays, adversely affecting the Corporation’s business and financial position. The Corporation’s board of directors may face the possibility of conflicts of interest with other resource companies with which they are involved. Certain directors of the Corporation also serve as directors and officers of other companies involved in natural resource exploration, development and production. Consequently, there exists the possibility that such directors will be in a position of conflict of interest. Any decision made by such directors involving the Corporation will be made in accordance with their duties and obligations to deal fairly and in good faith with the Corporation and such other companies. In addition, such directors will declare, and refrain from voting on, any matter in which such directors may have a material interest. The Corporation may have potential adverse U.S. Federal Income Tax consequences. A non-U.S. corporation generally will be considered a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”) as such term in defined in the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. If the Corporation were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which a U.S. holder held the Corporation’s shares, certain adverse - 11 - - consequences could apply, including a material increase in the amount of tax that the U.S. holder would owe, an imposition of tax earlier than would otherwise be imposed, interest charges and additional tax form filing requirements. The determination of whether a corporation is a PFIC involves the application of complex tax rules. The Corporation has not made a conclusive determination as to whether it has been in prior tax years or is currently a PFIC. The Corporation could have qualified as a PFIC for past tax years and may qualify as a PFIC currently or in future tax years. However, no assurance can be given as to such status for prior tax years, for the current tax year or future tax years. U.S. holders of Corporation’s shares are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the application of U.S. income tax rules. The Corporation may lose its status as a foreign private issuer. Ur-Energy is a “foreign private issuer,” as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act, and, therefore, it is not required to comply with all the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and related rules and regulations. In order for the Corporation to maintain its current status as a foreign private issuer, a majority of its common shares must be either directly or indirectly owned of record by non-residents of the U.S., as it does not currently satisfy any of the additional requirements necessary to preserve this status. The Corporation may in the future lose its foreign private issuer status if a majority of its shares are owned of record by residents of the U.S. and it continues to fail to meet the additional requirements necessary to avoid loss of foreign private issuer status. The regulatory and compliance costs to the Corporation under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly more than the costs it incurs as a Canadian foreign private issuer eligible to use the Multi-Jurisdictional Disclosure System (“MJDS”). If it is not a foreign private issuer, it would not be eligible to use the MJDS or other foreign issuer forms and would be required to file periodic and current reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms required of a foreign private issuer. The Corporation may also be required to prepare its financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). In addition, the Corporation may lose the ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on U.S. stock exchanges that are available to foreign private issuers. Further, if the Corporation engages in capital raising activities through private placements after losing its foreign private issuer status, there is a higher likelihood that investors may require the Corporation to file resale registration statements with the SEC as a condition to any such financing. 