Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors are relevant to our future results and financial success, and should be read with care. Our continued emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At June 30, 2012, our loan portfolio consisted of $153.0 million, or 37.4%, of commercial real estate loans, $35.6 million, or 8.7%, of commercial business loans and $6.6 million, or 1.6%, of construction loans. We intend to grow commercial real estate and commercial business loans. Commercial real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks because they typically are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower's business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, because commercial business loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. The Company’s investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns, material losses or other-than-temporary impairment losses. During an economic downturn, the Company’s investment portfolio could be subject to higher risk. The value of the Company’s investment portfolio is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in the Company’s portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an issuer that guarantees an issuer’s payments of such investments. Such defaults and impairments could reduce the Company’s net investment income and result in realized investment losses. The Company’s investment portfolio is also subject to increased risk as the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e. the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in the Company’s financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions would occur. Because of the risks set forth above, the value of the Company’s investment portfolio could decrease, the Company could experience reduced net investment income, and the Company could incur realized investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial position and liquidity. Additionally, the Company reviews its securities portfolio at each quarter-end reporting period to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of the Company’s securities has declined below its carrying value, the Company is required to assess whether the decline is other-than-temporary. The Company is required to write-down the value of that security through a charge to earnings if it concludes that the decline is other-than-temporary for credit related impairments on debt securities or the entire impairment on equity securities. As of June 30, 2012, the amortized cost and the fair value of the Company’s securities portfolio totaled $140.5 million and $143.9 million, respectively. Changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines may result in the Company concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other-than-temporary, which would require a charge to earnings to write-down equity securities to their fair value or debt securities to the extent of estimated credit loss. Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flow, tangible capital or liquidity. 33 Certain interest rate movements may adversely affect our earnings and asset value. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends primarily upon our net interest income, which is the difference between our gross interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and our interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Accordingly, our results of operations and financial condition depend largely on movements in market interest rates and our ability to manage our interest-rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in response to these movements, including our adjustable-rate mortgage loans, which represent a large portion of our residential loan portfolio. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management." We are also subject to reinvestment risk relating to interest rate movements. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are not able to reinvest funds from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on the prepaid loans or securities. On the other hand, increases in interest rates on adjustable-rate mortgage loans result in larger mortgage payments due from borrowers, which could potentially increase our level of loan delinquencies and defaults. The United States economy remains weak and unemployment levels are high. The prolonged economic downturn will adversely affect our business and financial results. The U.S. economy continues to suffer from market volatility, difficulties in the financial services sector, tight credit markets, softness in the housing markets, concerns of inflation, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, significant job losses, reduced consumer spending, and continuing economic uncertainties. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many financial institutions reflecting, in part, the weak U.S. economy and high unemployment. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. The continuing real estate downturn also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected as has the ability for banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of this severe global economic downturn or subsequent recovery. Continued negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the market for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Moreover, continued declines in the stock market in general, or stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance. Lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions may decrease our level of deposits. Our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which may cause depositors to withdraw deposits and invest their funds in investments perceived as being more secure. These consumer preferences may force us to pay higher interest rates to retain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. Strong competition within our market area could adversely affect our profits and growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting and retaining deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which will reduce our net interest income. There are many credit unions in Hampden County, which, as tax-exempt organizations, are able to offer higher rates on retail deposits than banks. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Due to the interventions of the federal government, some of the institutions that we compete with are receiving substantial federal financial support which may not be available to us. Many institutions have been allowed to convert to banking charters and to offer insured deposits for the first time. The federal government has guaranteed money market funds which traditionally compete with bank deposits. The federal government has offered significant guarantees of new debt issuance to some of our competitors to help them fund their operations. The federal government now controls Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and may operate directly as a competitor in some lending markets in the future. Emergency measures designed to support some of our competitors may provide no advantage to us or place us at a disadvantage. Emergency changes in deposit insurance, financial market regulation, bank regulation, and policy of the Federal Home Loan Bank system may all affect the competitive environment for us and other market participants. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. For more information about our market area and the competition we face, see "Business—Market Area" and " Business—Competition." 34 A continued downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could adversely affect our profits. Nearly all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in Hampden and Hampshire Counties. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would adversely affect our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would also adversely affect our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. In addition, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, and we expect such loans to increase in the future, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments on their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. For a discussion of our market area, see "Business—Market Area." If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. In the event that our loan customers do not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the repayment of these loans is insufficient to cover any remaining loan balance, we could experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets, if any, serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. As of June 30, 2012, our allowance for loan losses was $5.1 million, representing 1.26% of total loans and 225.59% of nonperforming loans as of that date. In determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which may require additions to our allowance. Our allowance may need to be increased further in the future due to our emphasis on loan growth and on increasing our portfolio of commercial business and commercial real estate loans. Any material additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge offs. Any such action might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in law and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. See "Business — Regulation and Supervision". Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators' supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress or the Massachusetts legislature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The FDIC may impose additional assessment fees which could negatively impact our earnings. We are subject to regulations promulgated by the Massachusetts Division of Banks, as our chartering authority, and by the FDIC as the insurer of our deposits up to certain limits. We also belong to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, as a member of such system, we are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the FHLB. In addition, currently the Federal Reserve Board regulates and oversees Hampden Bancorp, Inc., as a bank holding company, and the Securities and Exchange Commission regulates Hampden Bancorp, Inc. as a publicly traded company. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of FDIC regulation, the FDIC's insurance fund. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution's allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and Massachusetts's deceptive acts and practices law. These laws also permit private individual and class action lawsuits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. No assurance can be given that the foregoing regulations and supervision will not change so as to affect us adversely. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material impact on our operations. 35 The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended, particularly with respect to the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. In addition, new law, regulations, and other regulatory changes will increase our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and may also increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further, continued declines in the stock market in general, or for stock of financial institutions and their holding companies, could affect our stock performance. Recently enacted financial reform legislation will, among other things, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, tighten capital standards and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law on July 21, 2010, is significantly changing the bank regulatory structure and affecting the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impacts of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk based capital requirements for bank and savings and loan holding companies that are no less than those applicable to banks, which will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital, such as trust preferred securities. The new law eliminated, as of July 21, 2011, the Office of Thrift Supervision. Effective July 21, 2011 the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is also the primary federal regulator for national banks, became the primary federal regulator for federal thrifts. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Effective one year after the date of enactment is a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund, from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets. Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act increased stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. 36 Expenses from operating as a public company and from our stock-based benefit plans will continue to adversely affect our profitability. Our non-interest expenses are impacted as a result of the financial, accounting, legal and other additional expenses usually associated with operating as a public company. We will also recognize additional annual employee compensation and benefit expenses stemming from the shares that are purchased or granted to employees and executives under our new benefit plans. These additional expenses adversely affect our profitability. We recognize expenses for our employee stock ownership plan when shares are committed to be released to participants’ accounts and recognize expenses for restricted stock awards and stock options over the vesting period of awards made to recipients pursuant to our 2008 Plan. The majority of the employee compensation and benefit expenses associated with the issuance of the restricted stock awards and stock options from our 2008 Equity Incentive Plan will be completed in fiscal year 2013. Our contribution to Hampden Bank Charitable Foundation may not be fully tax deductible, which could adversely affect our profits. We made a contribution to the Hampden Bank Charitable Foundation, valued at $3.8 million, pre-tax, at the time of our initial public offering. The Internal Revenue Service has granted tax-exempt status to the foundation. The amount of the tax deduction related to the foundation is limited to 10% of taxable income each year but can only be carried forward until the tax year ended October 31, 2012. We may not have sufficient profits to be able to use the deduction fully. As a result of our evaluation of whether it is “more likely than not” that we will be unable to use the entire deduction, we have established a valuation allowance of $735,000 related to the deferred tax asset that has been recorded for this contribution. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 37 