Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to invest in us or deciding to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below and in our other filings are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose your investment. Our commercial real estate, commercial business and commercial construction loan portfolios expose us to greater credit risk than our residential real estate loan portfolio. At June 30, 2014, our loan portfolio consisted of $200.8 million, or 39.3%, of commercial real estate loans, $54.8 million, or 10.7%, of commercial business loans and $36.2 million, or 7.1%, of commercial construction loans.We intend to continue growing our commercial real estate and commercial business loan portfolios. Commercial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a higher risk of nonpayment or late payment than residential real estate loans. These loans may lack standardized terms and may include a balloon payment feature. Repayment of commercial real estate loans often depends on the successful operation of the property securing the loan. Commercial business loans typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. Many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us, and an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential real estate loan. Because of the risks associated with commercial loans, we may experience higher rates of default than if the portfolio were more heavily weighted toward residential real estate loans. Higher rates of default could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease.In the event that our borrowers do not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the repayment of these loans is insufficient to cover any remaining loan balance, we could experience loan losses, which could adversely effect our financial condition and results of operations. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets, if any, serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. In determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which may require additions to our allowance. Our allowance may need to be increased further in the future due to our emphasis on loan growth and on increasing our portfolio of commercial business and commercial real estate loans. Any material additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge offs. Any such action might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.32Environmental liability associated with our lending activities could result in losses.We may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans that we have originated or purchased that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that material environmental violations could be discovered at these properties. In this event, we might be required to remedy these violations at the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of remedial action could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our profits.Nearly all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in Hampden and Hampshire Counties. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would hurt our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. In addition, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments on their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings.Our financial condition and results of operations have been adversely affected, and may continue to be adversely affected, by general market and economic conditions. We have been, and continue to be, impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and, to a lesser extent, abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, unemployment and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. Deterioration or continued weakness in any of these conditions could result in increases in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values, the value of our investment portfolio and demand for our products and services. While the U.S. economy is improving, the recovery has been slow and there remains some uncertainty regarding its sustainability.Fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability.Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends primarily upon our net interest income, which is the difference between our gross interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and our interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. The narrowing of that difference could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. We cannot predict with certainty or control changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Federal Reserve, affect interest income and interest expense. While we have ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest rates, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increases in interest rates could affect the amount of loans that we originate, because higher rates could cause customers to apply for fewer loans. Higher interest rates could also cause depositors to shift funds from accounts that have a comparatively lower cost, to accounts with a higher cost. If the cost of interest-bearing deposits increases at a rate greater than the yields on interest-earning assets, net interest income will be negatively affected.Competition within our market area could adversely affect our profits and growth.Competition in the markets in which we operate may limit our ability to attract and retain customers. In particular, our competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization, as well as financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions, have larger lending limits and are able to serve the credit and investment needs of larger customers. There is also increased competition by out-of-market competitors through the Internet. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively impacted. 33We operate in a highly regulated environment, and laws and regulations, or changes in them, could limit or restrict our activities and could have an adverse impact on our operations.We are subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve, and the Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the Commissioner and the FDIC. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters affecting us, including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The FDIC and the Commissioner have the power to issue cease and desist orders to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the Federal Reserve possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we and the Bank may conduct business and obtain financing. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, regulations, and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. It is impossible to predict the competitive impact that any such changes would have on the banking and financial services industry in general or on our business in particular. Such changes may, among other things, increase the cost of doing business, limit permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance between banks and other financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Other changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. See “Business-Regulation and Supervision.”Additional requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act could adversely affect us. The Dodd-Frank Act comprehensively reformed the regulation of financial institutions, products and services. Because many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking that will take effect over several years, it is difficult to forecast the full impact that such rulemaking will have on us, our clients, or the financial industry. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB as an independent bureau of the Federal Reserve. The CFPB has the authority to prescribe rules for all depository institutions governing the provision of consumer financial products and services, which may result in rules and regulations that reduce the profitability of such products and services or impose greater costs and restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act also established new minimum mortgage underwriting standards for residential mortgages, and the regulatory agencies have focused on the examination and supervision of mortgage lending and servicing activities. See “Business-Regulation and Supervision-Consumer Protection Regulation-Mortgage Reform.”Effective December 10, 2013, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, federal banking and securities regulators issued final rules to implement Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, also known as the “Volcker Rule”. Generally, the Volcker Rule restricts banking organizations and their affiliated companies from engaging in proprietary trading and from sponsoring and investing in hedge funds and private equity funds, except as permitted under certain limited circumstances. After the transition period, the Volcker Rule restrictions will apply to us, unless an exception applies. At June 30, 2014 the Company did not engage in any activities that will not be permitted under the Volcker rule. Current and future legal and regulatory requirements, restrictions, and regulations, including those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act, may adversely impact our profitability and may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations; may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes required by the legislation and related regulations; and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees.We will become subject to more stringent capital requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act required the federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for insured banks and their holding companies. The federal banking agencies issued a joint final rule, or the “Final Capital Rule,” that implements the Basel III capital standards and establishes the minimum capital levels required under the Dodd-Frank Act. We must comply with the Final Capital Rule by January 1, 2015. The Final Capital Rule establishes a minimum common equity Tier I capital ratio of 6.5% of risk-weighted assets for a “well capitalized” institution and increases the minimum Tier I capital ratio for a “well capitalized” institution from 6.0% to 8.0%. Additionally, the Final Capital Rule requires an institution to maintain a 2.5% common equity Tier I capital conservation buffer over the 6.5% minimum risk-based capital requirement for “adequately 34capitalized” institutions, or face restrictions on the ability to pay dividends, discretionary bonuses, and engage in share repurchases. The Final Capital Rule increases the required capital for certain categories of assets, including high-volatility construction real estate loans and certain exposures related to securitizations; however, the Final Capital Rule retains the current capital treatment of residential mortgages. Under the Final Capital Rule, we may make a one-time, permanent election to continue to exclude accumulated other comprehensive income from capital. If we do not make this election, unrealized gains and losses will be included in the calculation of our regulatory capital. Implementation of these standards, or any other new regulations, may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or require us to reduce business levels or raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We may be unable to attract and retain key employees. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Competition for the best people can be intense and we may not be able to hire or retain the key employees that we depend upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key employees could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement employees. Our ability to attract and retain clients and employees, and to maintain relationships with vendors, third-party service providers and others, could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is harmed. We are dependent on our reputation within our market area, as a trusted and responsible financial institution, for all aspects of our relationships with clients, employees, vendors, third party service providers, and others with whom we conduct business or potential future business. Our ability to attract and retain clients and employees at our banking, investment management, and wealth advisory subsidiaries could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. Our actual or perceived failure to address various issues could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to us and our business prospects. These issues also include, but are not limited to, legal and regulatory requirements; privacy; properly maintaining client and employee personal information; record keeping; money-laundering; sales and trading practices; ethical issues; appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our products. Failure to appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions, reputational harm, and legal risks, which could, among other consequences, increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines, and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies.Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established policies and procedures intended to identify, monitor and manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and reputational risk. Although we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future, these policies and procedures, as well as our risk management techniques, may not be fully effective. In addition, as regulations and markets in which we operate continue to evolve, our risk management framework may not always keep sufficient pace with those changes. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. Management of our risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models we use to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur increased losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated.We may suffer losses as a result of operational risk or technical system failures. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.35We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers or otherwise conduct our business efficiently and effectively. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations. We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For example, we are subject to regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or “OFAC,” that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. There may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities. Such a finding may also damage our reputation as described above and could restrict the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in our securities.We face legal risks, both from regulatory investigations and proceedings and from private actions brought against us.From time to time we are named as a defendant or are otherwise involved in various legal proceedings, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties. There is no assurance that litigation with private parties will not increase in the future. Actions currently pending against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause reputational harm to us. As a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely that we will continue to experience litigation related to our businesses and operations.Our businesses and operations are also subject to increasing regulatory oversight and scrutiny, which may lead to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. These and other initiatives from federal and state officials may subject us to further judgments, settlements, fines or penalties, or cause us to be required to restructure our operations and activities, all of which could lead to reputational issues, or higher operational costs, thereby reducing our revenue.Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates, which, if wrong, could cause unexpected losses in the future.Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or “GAAP,” we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining loan loss reserves, reserves related to litigation, and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. For additional information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies.”Changes in accounting standards can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to anticipate and implement and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiary bank for dividends, distributions, and other payments. We are a legal entity that is separate and distinct from the Bank and depend on dividends, distributions, and other payments from the Bank to fund dividend payments on our common stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations. Our revenue (on a parent-only basis) is derived primarily from interest and dividends paid to us by the Bank. Our right, and consequently the right of our stockholders, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of the Bank through the payment of such 36dividends or otherwise is necessarily subject to the prior claims of creditors of the Bank (including depositors), except to the extent that certain claims of ours in a creditor capacity may be recognized.Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as, and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. The Federal Reserve has authority to prohibit bank holding companies from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. Additionally, the FDIC has the authority to use its enforcement powers to prohibit a bank from paying dividends if, in its opinion, the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Further, when the Final Capital Rule comes into effect, our ability to pay dividends would be restricted if we do not maintain a capital conservation buffer. A reduction or elimination of dividends could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. See “Business-Regulation and Supervision-Dividend Restrictions” and “Business-Regulation and Supervision-Regulatory Capital Requirements.” Future capital offerings may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or the Bank’s capital ratios fall below required minimums, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt, common or preferred stock, trust preferred securities, and senior or subordinated notes. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. We cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to raise sufficient additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, and results of operations. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: •quarterly variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets;•operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, and investors;•changes in expectations as to our future financial performance;•announcements of innovations, new products, strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions, and other material events by us or our competitors;•the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us;•our past and future dividend practices;•future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; and•changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility.Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders.Provisions of Delaware law and provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These and other provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders.37Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable.