Risk Factors The following risk factors are relevant to our future results and financial success, and should be read with care. Our continued emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At June 30, 2008, our loan portfolio consisted of $117.6 million, or 32.6%, of commercial real estate loans, $32.5 million, or 9.0%, of commercial business loans and $11.3 million, or 3.1%, of construction loans. We have grown these loan portfolios in recent years and intend to continue to grow commercial real estate and commercial loans. Commercial real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower's business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since commercial business loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. We expect to increase substantially our internal loans-to-one-borrower limit. Although we do not expect to increase our internal loans-to-one-borrower limit up to the regulatory maximum, the increased internal limit may expose us to greater risk of loss. The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We intend to continue to build market share in Hampden County, Massachusetts and surrounding areas through our branching strategy. Hampden Bank expects to open its second branch in Longmeadow, which will be its ninth branch, in November 2008. Our business plan currently contemplates that we will establish additional branches, if market conditions are favorable. There are considerable expenses involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate the necessary revenues to offset their expenses, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, we have no assurance our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. Certain interest rate movements may hurt our earnings and asset value. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends on primarily upon our net interest income, which is the difference between our gross interest income and interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and our interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Accordingly, our results of operations and financial condition depend largely on movements in market interest rates and our ability to manage our interest-rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in response to these movements, including our adjustable-rate mortgage loans, which represent a large portion of our residential loan portfolio. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Management." 29 We are also subject to reinvestment risk relating to interest rate movements. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are not able to reinvest funds from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on the prepaid loans or securities. On the other hand, increases in interest rates on adjustable-rate mortgage loans result in larger mortgage payments due from borrowers, which could potentially increase our level of loan delinquencies and defaults. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting and retaining deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. There are 21 credit unions in Hampden County, which, as tax-exempt organizations, are able to offer higher rates on retail deposits than banks. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. For more information about our market area and the competition we face, see "Business—Market Area" and " Business—Competition." A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. Nearly all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in Hampden and Hampshire Counties. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would hurt our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. In addition, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments on their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. For a discussion of our market area, see "Business—Market Area." If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. In the event that our loan customers do not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the repayment of these loans is insufficient to cover any remaining loan balance, we could experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets, if any, serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. As of June 30, 2008, our allowance for loan losses was $3.5 million, representing 1.0% of total loans and 71.6% of nonperforming loans as of that date. In determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which may require additions to our allowance. Our allowance may need to be increased further in the future due to our emphasis on loan growth and on increasing our portfolio of commercial business and commercial real estate loans. Any material additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in law and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. See "Business—Regulation and Supervision". Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators' supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress or the Massachusetts legislature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to regulations promulgated by the Massachusetts Division of Banks, as our chartering authority, and by the FDIC as the insurer of our deposits up to certain limits. We also belong to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, as a member of such system, we are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the FHLB. In addition, currently the Federal Reserve Board regulates and oversees Hampden Bancorp, Inc., as a bank holding company. 30 This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of FDIC regulation, the FDIC's insurance fund. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution's allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and Massachusetts's deceptive acts and practices law. These laws also permit private individual and class action law suits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. No assurance can be given that the foregoing regulations and supervision will not change so as to affect us adversely. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material impact on our operations. Our low return on equity may negatively affect our stock price Net income divided by average equity, known as “return on equity,” is a ratio many investors use to compare the performance of a financial institution to its peers. Our return on equity is reduced due to the large amount of capital that we raised in our 2007 stock offering and to expenses we will incur in pursuing our growth strategies, the costs associated with being a public company and added expenses in connection with the administration of our employee stock ownership plan and our 2008 Equity Incentive Plan. Until we can increase our net interest income and non-interest income, we expect our return on equity to be below that of our peers, which may negatively affect the value of our common stock. For the twelve months ended June 30, 2008, our return on equity was 1.13%. Expenses from operating as a public company and from new stock-based benefit plans will continue to adversely affect our profitability Our non-interest expenses are impacted as a result of the financial, accounting, legal and other additional expenses usually associated with operating as a public company. We will also recognize additional annual employee compensation and benefit expenses stemming from the shares that are purchased or granted to employees and executives under our new benefit plans. These additional expenses adversely affect our profitability. We recognize expenses for our employee stock ownership plan when shares are committed to be released to participants’ accounts and recognize expenses for restricted stock awards and stock options over the vesting period of awards made to recipients pursuant to our 2008 Equity Incentive Plan. Our contribution to Hampden Bank Charitable Foundation may not be fully tax deductible, which could hurt our profits We made a contribution to the Hampden Bank Charitable Foundation, valued at $3.8 million, pre-tax, at the time of our initial public offering. The Internal Revenue Service has granted tax-exempt status to the foundation. The amount of the tax deduction related to the foundation is limited to 10% of taxable income each year but can only be carried forward until 2011. We may not have sufficient profits to be able to use the deduction fully. As a result of our evaluation of whether it is “more likely than not” that we will be unable to use the entire deduction, we have established a valuation allowance of $810,000 related to the deferred tax asset that has been recorded for this contribution. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 31 