ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risks and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you decide whether to buy our common stock. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks related to our business Our revenues and financial results depend significantly on sales of our Obagi Nu-Derm System. If we are unable to manufacture or sell our Obagi Nu-Derm System in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner, or maintain physician and/or patient acceptance of our Obagi Nu-Derm System, our business will be materially and adversely impacted. To date, substantially all of our revenues have resulted from sales of our principal product line, our Obagi Nu-Derm System and related products. Our Obagi Nu-Derm System and related products accounted for approximately 72%, 72% and 68% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Although we have introduced new products such as Obagi-C Rx, and intend to introduce additional products, we expect sales of our Obagi Nu-Derm System and related products to account for a significant majority of our sales for the foreseeable future. Because our business is highly dependent on our Obagi Nu-Derm System and related products, factors adversely affecting the pricing of, or demand for, these products could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Additionally, our commercial success depends in large part on our ability to sustain market acceptance of our Obagi Nu-Derm System. If existing users of our products determine that our products do not satisfy their requirements, or if our competitors develop a product that is perceived by patients or physicians to better satisfy their respective requirements, sales of our Obagi Nu-Derm System and related products may decline, and our total net sales may correspondingly decline. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to manufacture these products in commercial quantities at acceptable costs. Our inability to do so would adversely affect our operating results and cause our business to suffer. We face intense competition, in some cases from companies that have significantly greater resources than we do, which could limit our ability to generate sales. The market for aesthetic and therapeutic skin health products is highly competitive and we expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future. We also expect to encounter increased competition as we enter new markets and as we attempt to penetrate existing markets with new products. We may not be able to compete effectively in these markets, we may face significant pricing pressure from our competitors and 28 we may lose market share to our competitors. Our principal competitors are large, well-established companies in the fields of pharmaceuticals, medical devices, cosmetics and health care. Our direct competitors include La-Roche Posay, Skin Medica, Inc., Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, SkinCeuticals, a division of L’Oreal S.A., Allergan, Inc., IS Clinical, and PhotoMedex, Inc. We believe our indirect competitors, who generally sell skin care products directly to consumers, consist of large cosmetic companies, including but not limited to, The Estee Lauder Companies Inc., Helene Curtis Industries, Inc., L’Oreal S.A., Matrix Essentials, Inc., a division of L’Oreal S.A, Procter & Gamble Company, Neutrogena, a division of Johnson & Johnson, Revlon, Inc. and Unilever N.V. We also face competition from medical device companies offering products used to enhance the skin’s appearance to physicians, such as Candela, Cool Touch, Cynosure, Lumenis, Reliant Technologies, Syneron and Thermage. We may not be able to successfully expand the use of our current product lines or develop new products. We are working to improve, extend and reformulate many of our existing products. Continued market acceptance of our products will depend on our ability to successfully develop additional applications of our existing products. The development of additional applications will require significant commitments of personnel and financial resources and we cannot assure you that they will be successful. If the attempted extensions of our product lines are not commercially successful, our business will be adversely affected. We are also developing new product lines by applying our Penetrating Therapeutics technology to new agents. We also have acquired rights to certain patents covering additional methods and formulations. New products, in various stages of development, include acne and skin elasticity products and systems. These development activities, as well as clinical studies, which must be completed before these products can be marketed and sold, will require significant commitments of personnel and financial resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop new products or technologies in a timely manner, or at all. Delays in the development or testing processes will cause a corresponding delay in revenue generation from those products. Regardless of whether such new products or technologies are ever released to the market, the expense of such processes, which may be considerable, will have already been incurred and we may not be able to recover such expenses. We reevaluate our development efforts regularly to assess whether our efforts to develop a particular new product or technology are progressing at a rate that justifies our continued expenditures. On the basis of these reevaluations, we have abandoned in the past, and may abandon in the future, our efforts on a particular product or technology. New products that we develop may not be successfully commercialized. If we fail to take a product or technology from the development stage to market on a timely basis, we may incur significant expenses without a near-term financial return or any financial return. Our failure to successfully in-license or acquire additional products and technologies would impair our ability to grow. We intend to in-license, acquire, develop and market new products and technologies. Because we have limited internal research capabilities, our business model depends in part on our ability to license patents, products and/or technologies from third parties. The success of this strategy also depends upon our ability and the ability of our third-party formulators to formulate products under such licenses, as well as our ability to manufacture, market and sell such licensed products. We may not be able to successfully identify any new products to in-license, acquire or internally develop. Moreover, negotiating and implementing an economically viable acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the acquisition of products. We may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to such products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. As a result, our ability to grow our business or increase our profits could be adversely impacted. 29 Our marketed products and our products under development could be rendered obsolete by technological or medical advances. Our marketed products and our products under development may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by the development of medical advances to treat the conditions that our products are designed to address. The treatment of skin conditions and the enhancement of the appearance of skin, which is what all of our products target, are the subjects of active research and development by many potential competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies, such as Johnson & Johnson and Galderma, specialized biotechnology firms, such as Allergan and Medicis, universities and other research institutions. Competitive advances may also include the potential development of new laser or radio frequency therapies being developed by manufacturers such as Candela, Syneron and Thermage, aimed at treating hyperpigmentation and photo-damaged skin. While we intend to expand our technological capabilities to remain competitive, research and development by others may render our technology or products obsolete or noncompetitive or result in treatments superior to any therapy we develop, as our competitors may develop and patent products which are better than ours, which could harm our competitive position. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain other qualified personnel, we may be unable to execute our business plan and our business would be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2006, we had 153 employees. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, business development, sales and marketing, product development and other personnel. In the future we may not be able to recruit and retain qualified personnel, particularly for senior sales and marketing and research and product development positions due to intense competition for personnel among businesses like ours, and the failure to do so could have a significant negative impact on our future product sales and business results. Our success depends in large part on the efforts and abilities of Steven Carlson, our Chief Executive Officer, Stephen Garcia, our Chief Financial Officer, Curtis Cluff, our Executive Vice President of Corporate Development, and David Goldstein, our Executive Vice President of Sales, as well as other members of our senior management and our scientific and technical personnel. Although we have agreements with certain of these officers that contain certain provisions related to severance and bonus payments, aside from Mr. Carlson, we have not entered into employment agreements with any of these officers. We may not be able to retain the services of our officers. In addition, we do not have “key person” insurance policies on any of our executive officers that would compensate us for the loss of their services. If we lose the services of one or more of these individuals, finding a replacement could be difficult, may take an extended period of time and could significantly impede the achievement of our business objectives. This may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To sustain our continued growth, we will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If we are able to successfully develop additional products and extend the use of our current products, we may experience growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations. To the extent that we acquire and launch additional products, the resulting growth and expansion of our sales force will place a significant demand on our financial, managerial and operational resources. Since many of the new products or systems we are working on may involve new technologies or entering new markets, we may not be able to accurately forecast the number of employees required, the timing of their hire or the associated cost. The extent of any expansion we may experience will be driven largely by the success of our new products and systems. As a result, management’s ability to project the size of any such expansion and its cost to the company is limited by the following uncertainties: (i) we will not have previously sold any of the new products and technologies and the ultimate success of these new products and technologies is 30 unknown; (ii) we will be entering new markets; and (iii) the costs associated with any expansion will be partially driven by factors that may not be fully in our control (e.g., timing of hire, market salary rates). Subject to these uncertainties, we believe that our current business plan may require us to hire between 30 and 40 new employees within the next 12 months at an incremental cost of between $3.0 million and $4.0 million. Due to the uncertainty surrounding the new product lines, this estimate may prove to be incorrect, and our costs could be significantly higher. Our success will also depend on the ability of our executive officers and senior management to continue to implement and improve our operational, information management and financial control systems, particularly in light of our status as a newly public company subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, and to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our inability to manage growth effectively could cause our operating costs to grow even faster than we are currently anticipating and adversely affect our results of operations. Because we have limited research and development capabilities, we will be dependent on third parties to perform research and development for us. We have limited internal research and development capabilities and currently outsource all of our product research and development to third-party research labs. In particular, we have licensed patents that may issue under certain patent applications filed by JR Chem LLC, and have relied heavily on services provided by JR Chem LLC in the development of new products to address acne and skin elasticity. We have received sufficient support from our third-party research labs to drive our current new product development, and we expect to continue to rely on third parties to research and develop new products. There are a limited number of third-party research and development companies that specialize or have the expertise required to achieve our product development objectives. As a result, it may be difficult for us to engage research and development labs and personnel for our anticipated future needs. If we are unable to arrange for third-party research and development of our products, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to develop new products or expand the application of our existing products. Reliance on third-party research and development labs entails risks to which we would not be subject if we performed the research and development ourselves, including reliance on the third party for maintaining the confidentiality of the proprietary information relating to the product being developed and for maintaining quality assurance, the possibility of breach of the research and development agreement by the third party, and the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party. Dependence upon third parties for the research and development of our future products may limit our ability to commercialize and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. Because we currently have limited commercial manufacturing capabilities, we will continue to be dependent on third parties to manufacture products for us for some time. We have limited commercial manufacturing experience and currently outsource all of our non-Benzoyl Peroxide product manufacturing to third-party contract manufacturers. Although we have received sufficient material from our manufacturers to meet our current needs, we do not have long-term contracts with most of these third parties. Triax Pharmaceuticals, LLC is our sole supplier and manufacturer of tretinoin pursuant to a contract that has an initial termination in 2010. The termination of that agreement or any loss of services under that agreement would be difficult for us to replace. We expect to continue to rely on third parties to produce materials required for clinical trials and for the commercial production of our products. 31 There are a limited number of third-party manufacturers that operate under the FDA’s current cGMPs, or cGMP, regulations and that have the necessary expertise and capacity to manufacture our products. As a result, it may be difficult for us to locate manufacturers for our anticipated future needs. If we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing of our products, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to complete development of, market and sell our new products. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party, and the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party. We have developed manufacturing dedicated to the production of our CLENZIderm M.D™ Serum Gel. We may expand the capabilities of that manufacturing site and may in the future elect to manufacture certain new products developed or certain existing products without the assistance of third parties. However, in order to make that election, we will need to invest substantial additional funds and recruit qualified personnel in order to operate our development manufacturing facility on a commercial basis. There can be no assurance that we will successfully manufacture our own products, and if we are not able to make or obtain adequate supplies of our products, it will be more difficult for us to launch CLENZIderm M.D.™, or other new products and compete effectively. Dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may reduce our profit margins, or the sale of our products and may limit our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. Our growth may suffer if an economic downturn in any of our major markets inhibits people from spending their disposable income on aesthetic and skin health products. Our growth depends significantly on continued economic growth in the markets where we sell our products. Because many treatments in which our products are used are considered cosmetic in nature, they are typically paid directly by the patient out of disposable income and are not subject to reimbursement by third-party payers such as health insurance organizations. As a result, an economic downturn in any of our major markets, such as North America, the Pacific Rim and the Middle East, could have an adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our products. Our products may cause undesirable side effects that could limit their use, require their removal from the market or prevent further development. The most common side effects associated with our therapeutic products are temporary redness, stinging, burning sensation, skin peeling, flaking, acne flare-ups and photo-sensitivity normally experienced within approximately the first ten weeks of use. While these side effects generally are not severe, they may limit the use of our products, particularly if physicians or patients perceive that the risks or discomfort outweigh the benefits or if they perceive that the side effects of competitive products are less significant. Undesirable side effects caused by our products could interrupt, delay or halt our development programs, including clinical trials, and could result in adverse regulatory action by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. More severe side effects associated with our products may be observed in the future. Even if we are able to complete the development of a new product and obtain any required regulatory approval, undesirable side effects could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product. Negative publicity concerning our products, whether accurate or inaccurate, could also reduce market or regulatory acceptance of our products, which could result in decreased product demand, removal from the market or an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not such claims have merit. 32 The FDA has issued a proposed rule which cites evidence that an active ingredient contained in some of our Obagi Nu-Derm and Obagi-C Rx Systems may have negative side effects. In August 2006, the FDA issued a proposed rule which cites some evidence that hydroquinone may be a carcinogen, if orally administered, and may be related to a skin condition called ochronosis, which results in the darkening and thickening of the skin, and the appearance of small bumps and grayish-brown spots. Hydroquinone is an active ingredient contained in our Obagi Nu-Derm Clear, Obagi Nu-Derm Blender and Obagi Nu-Derm Sunfader products, which are part of our Obagi Nu-Derm System, and in our Obagi-C Rx C-Clarifying Serum and Obagi-C Rx C-Night Therapy products, which are part of our Obagi-C Rx System. The FDA also concluded that it could not rule out the potential carcinogenic risk from topically applied hydroquinone. After further review of the evidence cited in the notice, or information provided in the public comments on the proposed rule, or if additional evidence of cancer or ochronosis, or other side effects associated with any of our products were to be reported to or observed by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, we could be required to suspend the marketing of our products that contain hydroquinone, conduct additional safety tests and potentially cease the sale of affected products, which would harm our business. In addition, patients who experience side effects from our products may bring product liability claims against us. All of our products which contain hydroquinone are prescription-based. The FDA is considering regulating all hydroquinone products, including prescription-based hydroquinone products, as new drugs, and may conclude that the continued use of prescription-based hydroquinone products will require the submission and approval of an NDA. If we are required to submit an NDA for our prescription-based hydroquinone products, we believe that the FDA may allow us to continue to market these products while we are preparing, submitting and waiting for approval of such NDA. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to market our products during the NDA process, and we may be required to suspend marketing of our prescription-based hydroquinone products until such time as an NDA is approved. In addition, there can be no assurance that any NDA we submit for our prescription-based hydroquinone products will be approved. If we are required to suspend or cease marketing of our prescription-based hydroquinone products, it would adversely affect our business. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our products. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent to the development, clinical testing and marketing of aesthetic and skin health products. These lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forgo further commercialization of those products. Although we maintain general liability and product liability insurance in an amount that we believe is reasonably adequate to insulate us from potential claims, this insurance may not fully cover potential liabilities. In addition, our inability to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of our products, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our international sales currently depend upon the marketing efforts of and sales by certain distributors and licensees, particularly Rohto Pharmaceuticals, a licensee of certain of our trademarks and products for the retail drug store channel in Japan, from whom we receive royalties that accounted for 4% of our net sales and 5% of our gross margin in 2006. Because incremental costs associated with this agreement are minimal, a material decline in licensing revenues from or termination of this agreement would have a material adverse effect on our net income. While no other international distribution or 33 license partner accounted for more than 4% of our net sales in 2006, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: · adverse changes in tariff and trade protection measures; · unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; · potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; · the potential business failure of one or more of our distribution partners; · changing economic conditions in countries where our products are sold or manufactured in other countries; · exchange rate risks; · potential political unrest and hostilities; · differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; and · difficulties in coordinating foreign distribution. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we can successfully manage these risks or avoid their effects. Potential business combinations could require significant management attention and prove difficult to integrate with our business, which could distract our management, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. If we become aware of potential business combination candidates that are complementary to our business, we may decide to combine with such businesses or acquire their assets in the future. Business combinations generally involve a number of additional difficulties and risks to our business, including: · failure to integrate management information systems, personnel, research and development and marketing, operations, sales and support; · disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management’s attention from other business matters; · potential loss of the acquired company’s customers; · failure to develop further the acquired company’s technology successfully; · unanticipated costs and liabilities; and · other accounting consequences. In addition, we may not realize benefits from any business combination we may undertake in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such businesses, or the technologies associated with such business combinations into our Company, the revenue and operating results of the combined company could be adversely affected. Any integration process would require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. If our customers are uncertain about our ability to operate on a combined basis, they could delay or cancel orders for our products. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or accurately forecast the financial impact of a combination, including accounting charges or volatility in the stock price of the combined entity. If we fail to successfully integrate other companies with which we may combine in the future, our business could be adversely affected. 34 Risks related to regulatory matters Our ability to commercially distribute our products and our business may be significantly harmed if the regulatory environment governing our products changes, if the FDA takes enforcement action against us or our competitors marketing similar products, or if a third party obtains FDA approval of an NDA, for 4% hydroquinone for the same uses for which we market our hydroquinone products. The FDA and comparable agencies of other countries regulate our products. In the United States, FDA regulations govern, among other things, the activities that we perform, including product development, product testing, product labeling, product storage, manufacturing, advertising, promotion, product sales, reporting of certain product adverse events and failures, and distribution. In addition, the Obagi Nu-Derm and Obagi-C Rx Systems contain products that include 4% hydroquinone as an active ingredient and are marketed in the United States without an FDA-approved marketing application. We believe that these products are not currently subject to FDA pre-market approval. In August 2006, the FDA issued a proposed rule that, if adopted in its current form, would establish that OTC skin bleaching drug products, such as hydroquinone, are not generally recognized as safe and effective and are misbranded, and could seek to require NDAs for new products using skin bleaching drug products, including prescription skin bleaching drug products. The FDA has indicated that upon adoption of the final rule it intends to consider all skin bleaching drug products, whether currently marketed on a prescription or OTC basis, to be new drugs requiring an approved NDA for continued marketing. This may require us to withdraw the Obagi Nu-Derm and Obagi-C Rx Systems until required clinical trials are performed and new drug approvals are obtained, in effect foreclosing us from selling the Obagi Nu-Derm and Obagi-C Rx Systems. If we are required to seek new drug approval for these products, our attention and resources will be dedicated to the process of obtaining new drug approval, which may be time-consuming and expensive. In addition, we may not successfully obtain such approval. If we are unable to obtain such approval, we would be prohibited from selling the Obagi Nu-Derm and Obagi-C Rx Systems, which would have a material adverse impact on our business. Finally, as discussed above, the August 2006 proposed rule cites some evidence that hydroquinone may be a carcinogen and may be related to ochronosis. If new studies are published that corroborate such evidence, or if based on further review of the current evidence, the FDA determines that such potential health risks warrant a ban on the sale of 4% hydroquinone, such determinations would have a material adverse effect on our sale of the Obagi Nu-Derm and Obagi-C Rx Systems. The FDA’s proposed rulemaking itself, and the concerns expressed therein relating to the use of hydroquinone, could have an adverse impact on the sales of our Obagi Nu-Derm and Obagi-C Rx Systems. Certain of our competitors are attempting to use the FDA’s proposed rulemaking in order to convince physicians and patients not to use our products containing hydroquinone. To date, these marketing efforts by our competitors have not had a negative impact on our sales levels. However, we cannot provide assurance that such marketing efforts will not have a negative impact on our sales levels in the future. FDA and FTC regulations limit the type of marketing claims we can make about our products. If the FDA determines that any of our marketing claims are false or misleading, or suggest a clinical benefit that is not supported in the studies we have done, we may be required to cease making the challenged marketing claims, issue corrective communications, pay fines, or stop selling products until the incorrect claims have been corrected. FDA or FTC enforcement actions regarding promotional claims, including warning letters, would also divert management attention and create public relations issues for our customers and opportunities for our competitors. We are also subject to review, periodic inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. Our manufacturing processes, any clinical trials that we perform, and our promotional activities are subject to ongoing regulatory obligations. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply with these requirements or later discovers previously unknown 35 problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or our manufacturer or manufacturing processes, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions, including: · fines, injunctions and civil penalties; · recall or seizure of our products; · restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; · denial of requests for approvals of product candidates; · withdrawal of approvals already granted; · disgorgement of profits; and · criminal prosecution. Any of these enforcement actions could affect our ability to commercially distribute our products in the United States and may also harm our ability to conduct the clinical trials necessary to support the marketing, clearance or approval of these products and could materially and adversely affect our business. New regulations could prohibit physicians from dispensing our products directly. In our primary market, the United States, we market our products and systems directly to physicians to dispense in their offices. Most of the products and systems we sell are dispensed by physicians directly to their patients in their offices, although some patients choose to have prescriptions for our products filled by pharmacies instead of the treating physician. In the event state regulations change to limit or prohibit the ability of physicians to dispense our products directly to patients in their offices, patients may be required to purchase our products in pharmacies, as opposed to directly from their physicians. If patients are unable to purchase our products directly from physicians, it could result in patients purchasing less of our product than they otherwise would, which would harm our business. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products internationally. We market our products outside of the United States. In order to market our products in many non-U.S. jurisdictions we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. In others, we do not have to obtain prior regulatory approval but do have to comply with other regulatory restrictions on the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products. We may be unable to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing and data review. The time required to obtain approval in non-U.S. jurisdictions may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. If we get approval by the FDA, that does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The failure to obtain these approvals could harm our business. 36 If any of our third-party manufacturers do not operate in accordance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, we could be subject to FDA enforcement actions, including the seizure of our products and the halt of our production. Third-party manufacturers that we currently rely on or will rely on in the future must continuously adhere to the current cGMPs set forth in the FDA’s regulations and guidance documents. In complying with cGMPs, we and our third-party manufacturers must expend significant time, money and effort in development, testing, production, record keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other regulatory requirements. The failure to comply with these specifications and other requirements could result in an FDA enforcement action, including the seizure of products and shutting down of production. Our third-party manufacturers may also be subject to comparable or more stringent regulations of foreign regulatory authorities. If our third-party manufacturers are unable to comply with cGMPs and applicable foreign regulatory requirements, our ability to develop, produce and sell our products could be impaired. Risks related to intellectual property If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely primarily on maintaining the confidentiality of our trade secrets and the protection of trade secret laws, as well as a combination of patent, copyright, and trademark (including common law trademark) laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions, to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. For example, our trade secrets may be misappropriated by current or former employees, contractors, or parties with whom we partner, or may be inadvertently disclosed or obtained by breach of a confidentiality agreement. We do not own any issued patents with claims covering any of our Obagi Nu-Derm products. We have recently applied for several patents both in the United States and abroad. These patent applications may not issue as patents at all, or the applications may not issue as a patent in a form that will be advantageous to us or may issue and be subsequently successfully challenged by others and invalidated or rendered unenforceable. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time-consuming and expensive. Competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes comparable to ours even without misappropriating our trade secrets. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, including entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. Further, the parties with whom we enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements could dispute the ownership of intellectual property developed under these agreements. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we are involved in intellectual property claims and litigation, the proceedings may divert our resources and subject us to significant liability for damages, substantial litigation expense and the loss of our proprietary rights. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation. In addition, others may initiate patent litigation against us. Companies against whom we might initiate litigation or who might initiate litigation against us may be better able to sustain the costs of litigation because they have substantially greater resources. We may become subject to interference proceedings conducted in patent and trademark offices to determine the priority of inventions. There are numerous issued and pending patents in the skin care product field. The validity and breadth of such patents may involve complex legal 37 and factual questions for which important legal principles may remain unresolved. If third parties file oppositions to our patent applications in foreign countries, we may also have to participate in opposition proceedings in foreign tribunals to defend the patentability of our filed foreign patent applications. Litigation may be necessary for us to assert or defend against infringement claims, enforce our issued and licensed patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Our involvement in intellectual property claims and litigation could: · divert existing management, scientific and financial resources; · subject us to significant liabilities; · result in a ruling that allows our competitors to market competitive products without obtaining a license from us; · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all; or · force us to discontinue selling or modify our products, or to develop new products. If any of these events occur, our business will be materially and adversely affected. We and our manufacturers and suppliers license certain technologies and patents from third parties. If these licenses are breached, terminated or disputed, our ability to commercialize products dependent on these technologies and patents may be compromised. We have licensed four patents, including patents related to our Vitamin C serums, from Avon. We entered into the license in June 2003, for an initial three-year term, and the license is renewed year to year thereafter, at our option through the life of the last patent to expire (which will be in 2018). These licensed patents contain claims that cover our Obagi-C Rx C-Clarifying serum, Professional-C 5% serum and Professional-C 10% serum. If one or more of our licenses with Avon or licenses we have with other parties terminate, if we violate the terms of our licenses or otherwise lose our rights to these patents, we may be unable to continue developing and selling our products that are covered by claims in the patents we license. Our licensors or others may dispute the scope of our rights under any of these licenses. The licensors under these licenses may breach the terms of their respective agreements or fail to prevent infringement of the licensed patents by third parties. Loss of any of these licenses for any reason could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Further, we purchase products from manufacturers and suppliers who have licensed patent rights to use and sell these products from third-party licensors, and if any dispute arises as to these licensed rights, the third-party licensors may bring legal actions against us, our respective licensees, suppliers, customers or collaborators, and claim damages and seek to enjoin the manufacturing and marketing of such products. In addition, if we determine that our products do not incorporate the patented technology that we have licensed from third parties, or that one or more of the patents that we have licensed are not valid, we may dispute our obligation to pay royalties to our licensors. Any dispute with a licensor could be complex, expensive and time-consuming and an outcome adverse to us could materially and adversely affect our business and impair our ability to commercialize our patent-licensed products. 38 Risks related to our capital requirements and finances If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations, we will be unable to continue to develop and commercialize new products. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we expand our infrastructure, and our commercialization, clinical trials, research and development and manufacturing activities. We believe that our net cash provided by operating activities and existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our operations for the foreseeable future. However, our present and future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, among other things: · the level of research and development investment required to maintain and improve our competitive position; · the success of our product sales and related collections; · our need or decision to acquire or license complementary businesses, products or technologies or acquire complementary businesses; · costs relating to the expansion of the sales force, management and operational support; · competing technological and market developments; and · costs relating to changes in regulatory policies or laws that affect our operations. As a result of these factors, we may need to raise additional funds, and we cannot be certain that such funds will be available to us on acceptable terms when needed, if at all. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our future products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to expand our operations, develop new products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. Our quarterly operating results are variable, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly results of operations have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: · demand for and market acceptance of our products; · the development of new competitive products by others; · changes in regulatory classifications of our products; · changes in physician or patient acceptance of the use of physician-dispensed products; · changes in treatment practices of physicians who currently prescribe our products; · delays between our expenditures to acquire new product lines or businesses and the generation of revenues from those acquired products or businesses; · the timing, release and competitiveness of our products; · increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our products; · the mix of products that we sell during any time period; · increased price competition; and 39 · adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the United States and other major regions in which we do business. Due to the factors summarized above, we do not believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are necessarily meaningful and should not necessarily be relied upon to predict future results of operations. It is also possible that in future periods, our results of operations will not meet the expectations of investors or analysts, or any published reports or analyses regarding our company. In that event, the price of our common stock could decline, perhaps substantially. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations, such as expensing of stock options, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or require us to change our compensation policies. Changes to, or interpretations of, accounting methods or policies in the future may require us to reclassify, restate or otherwise change or revise our financial statements, including those contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB has adopted a new accounting pronouncement requiring the recording of expense for the fair value of stock options granted. Beginning January 1, 2006, we have adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, which required us to change our accounting policy to record expense for the fair value of stock options granted, and as a result, our operating expenses will increase. We rely on stock options to motivate current employees and attract new employees. As a result of the requirement to expense stock options, we may choose to reduce our reliance on stock options as a recruitment or motivation tool. If we reduce our use of stock options, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. However, if we do not reduce our reliance on stock options, our operating expenses may increase. Impairment of our significant intangible assets may reduce our profitability. The costs of our goodwill, acquired product rights, distribution rights, and trademark are recorded as intangible assets and all, except for goodwill, are amortized over the period that we expect to benefit from the assets. As of December 31, 2006, acquired net intangible assets and goodwill comprised approximately 21% of our total assets. We evaluate periodically the recoverability and the amortization period of our intangible assets. Some factors we consider important in assessing whether or not impairment exists include performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of our use of the assets or the strategy for our overall business, and significant negative industry or economic trends. These factors, assumptions, and changes in them could result in an impairment of our long-lived assets. Any impairment of our intangible assets may reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in demand for our products could create inventory maintenance uncertainties and could adversely affect our business. As a result of customer buying patterns, a substantial portion of our revenues has been recognized in the last month of each quarter and the last month of the year. We schedule our inventory purchases to meet anticipated customer demand. As a result, relatively small delays in the receipt of manufactured products by us could result in revenues being deferred or lost. Our operating expenses are based upon anticipated sales levels, and a high percentage of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. Consequently, variations in the timing of sales could cause significant fluctuations in operating results from period to period and may result in unanticipated periodic earnings shortfalls or losses. If we overestimate demand, we may be required to write off inventories and increase our reserves for product returns. If we underestimate demand, we may not have sufficient inventory of products to ship to our customers. Our products have expiration dates that range from 24 to 36 months from the date of 40 manufacture. We establish reserves for potentially excess, dated or otherwise impaired inventories. We may not be able to accurately estimate the reserve requirement that will be needed in the future. Although our estimates are reviewed quarterly for reasonableness, our product return, rebate or chargeback activity could differ significantly from our estimates. Judgment is required in estimating these reserves and we rely on data from third parties, including, but not limited to, distributor forecasts and independent market research reports. The actual amounts could be different from our estimates, and differences are accounted for in the period in which they become known. If we determine that the actual amounts exceed our reserve amounts, we will record a charge to earnings to approximate the difference. A material reduction in earnings resulting from a charge could have a material adverse effect on our net income, results of operations and financial condition. We may be sued by the estate of Austin McNamara, our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and certain trusts established by Mr. McNamara. An Investor’s Rights Agreement between us and Mr. McNamara and trusts established by Mr. McNamara contained a repurchase obligation under which we were required, upon exercise of the repurchase right contained in the Investor’s Rights Agreement, to repurchase shares held by the trusts. Mr. McNamara died in December 2006. Our repurchase obligation was to be subordinated to our Credit Agreement, which restricts payments on the liability for shares subject to repurchase to a maximum of $1.5 million in any fiscal year, not to exceed $5.0 million in the aggregate while the Credit Agreement is in place. On November 17, 2006, we tendered promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $28.2 million, and a cash payment of $1.5 million as a partial prepayment of the notes, to the trusts established by Mr. McNamara in order to close on our repurchase of the shares held by the trusts in accordance with the terms of the Investor’s Rights Agreement described above. The trusts refused to accept our tender of these payments and refused to tender their shares and close on our repurchase of the shares that they hold. As a result, we believe that Mr. McNamara and the trusts are in material breach of their obligations under the Investor’s Rights Agreement. As a further result of this material breach and for other reasons, we believe that we are no longer required to repurchase the shares held by such trusts pursuant to the Investor’s Rights Agreement and that the right of the trusts to require us to repurchase the shares held by the trusts pursuant to the Investor’s Rights Agreement has expired and can no longer be enforced against us. Mr. McNamara’s estate and the trusts have claimed that we have materially breached our obligation in the Investor’s Rights Agreement to repurchase the shares held by the trusts. It is our understanding that the primary claim asserted by Mr. McNamara’s estate and the trusts to support their assertion of our breach is that the form of note we tendered did not comply with the terms of the Investor’s Rights Agreement. We believe that the form of note complied with the terms of the Investor’s Rights Agreement and that we have complied with all of our obligations to the trusts under the Investor’s Rights Agreement. It is our position that the trusts are bound by the subordination provisions of the Investor’s Rights Agreement and by a subsequent subordination agreement entered into by them with respect to the Credit Agreement. The trusts have agreed to be subordinated to the loans represented by the Credit Agreement, which limits payments to the trusts to a maximum of $1.5 million in any fiscal year, not to exceed $5.0 million in the aggregate while the Credit Agreement is in place. The Investor’s Rights Agreement contains no exclusive requirements with respect to the terms of the note to be granted thereunder, but does refer generally to principal, interest, prepayment and subordination and that the note be unsecured. The subordinated promissory notes tendered to the trusts were negotiated with and approved by the lenders party to the Credit Agreement and it is our position that these subordinated promissory notes included payment provisions consistent with the terms of the Credit Agreement. We have been advised by the attorney representing the trusts that, among other unspecified objections, the trusts object to the form of note tendered because it includes a provision providing for tax withholding and offset with respect to taxes 41 that may be due in connection with payments under the notes or upon the exercise of the options underlying the shares to have been repurchased. In addition, the trusts object to a provision prohibiting the trusts from prosecuting any claim challenging the enforceability or priority of the senior indebtedness. We can make no assurances that Mr. McNamara’s estate and the trusts will not sue us in order to assert the foregoing claims and additional claims against us for breach of our obligations under the Investor’s Rights Agreement relating to the repurchase of the shares held by the trusts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully defend these claims or any other claims Mr. McNamara’s estate and the trusts may bring against us, including employment related claims. If Mr. McNamara’s estate and the trusts were able to obtain a judgment against us, such judgment could require us to make significant cash payments, which we may not have the funds to pay, and may require us to make payments in a manner that may cause us to be in default under our Credit Agreement, which would adversely affect our financial condition. We have debt and have the ability to incur substantial additional debt. The principal and interest payment obligations of such debt may restrict our operations and adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2006, we have approximately $25.8 million of outstanding indebtedness. In addition, the covenants governing our credit facilities permit us to incur additional debt under certain circumstances. The incurrence of substantial amounts of debt may: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal due under our debt, which will reduce funds available for other business purposes; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with some of our competitors that have less debt; and · limit our ability to obtain additional financing required to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow, and future financings may not be available to provide sufficient net proceeds to meet these obligations or to successfully execute our business strategy. The agreements governing our credit facilities impose restrictions on our business that may limit our business opportunities and hinder our ability to execute our business strategy. Our senior secured credit facilities contain, and other agreements we may enter into in the future may contain, covenants imposing significant restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants place restrictions on our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt, create liens, make investments, enter into transactions with affiliates, sell assets, guarantee debt, declare or pay dividends, redeem common stock or make other distributions to stockholders, and consolidate or merge. 42 Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial, and industry conditions. An event of default under our debt agreements would permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we were unable to repay debt to our senior lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. We will be subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to comply with Section 404 in a timely manner it may affect the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting. Assessing our staffing and training procedures to improve our internal control over financial reporting is an ongoing process. For the year ending December 31, 2007, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management will be required to deliver a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our auditors will be required to deliver an attestation report on management’s assessment of, and the operating effectiveness of, our internal control over financial reporting beginning either with the year ended December 31, 2007 or the year ending December 31, 2008 depending upon whether we are an accelerated or non-accelerated filer. We will not be able to determine if we are an accelerated filer until June 30, 2007. We have a substantial effort ahead of us to implement appropriate processes, document the system of internal control over key processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. In the past, we have identified several material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. We have remediated these identified material weaknesses, but we cannot give any assurances that all material weaknesses have been identified or that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future in connection with our compliance with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 beginning in the year ending December 31, 2007. The existence of one or more material weaknesses would preclude a conclusion by management that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. We cannot be certain at this time that we will be able to successfully complete the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 or that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify and report a material weakness, it may affect the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We will incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We also anticipate that we will incur costs associated with recently adopted corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. While we have taken steps to improve our financial accounting organization and processes to date, we may still need to make additional changes, including adding staff in the areas of, internal controls and internal audit. We may also need to adopt and implement additional policies and procedures to further strengthen our financial reporting capability. However, the process of designing and implementing an effective financial reporting system is a continuous effort that will require us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments. All of this will also require us to expend significant resources. We also expect these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. We are currently evaluating these new rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. 43 Our board of directors can issue preferred stock without stockholder approval of the terms of such stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions granted to or imposed upon the preferred stock, including voting rights, dividend rights, conversion rights, terms of redemption, liquidation preference, sinking fund terms, subscription rights, and the number of shares constituting any series or the designation of a series. Our board of directors can issue preferred stock with voting and conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock, without stockholder approval. As of December 31, 2006, no shares of preferred stock were outstanding and we have no present plan to issue any shares of preferred stock. Risks related to our common stock The interests of our controlling stockholder may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2006, Stonington Capital Appreciation 1994 Fund, L.P., or Stonington, beneficially owned approximately 45.3% of the outstanding shares of our voting capital stock, without giving effect to the exercise of outstanding options. As a result, Stonington has significant influence over the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: · the election and removal of our directors; and · the approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Currently, John A. Bartholdson, Albert J. Fitzgibbons III and Bradley J. Hoecker, all of whom serve on our board of directors, are employees of Stonington and serve on the board of directors of Stonington’s general partner. This concentration of stock ownership could limit the ability of our other stockholders to influence corporate matters and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the company, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, could depress our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities. As of December 31, 2006, we had 21,801,961 shares of our common stock outstanding. In addition, we had outstanding options to purchase a total of 1,285,116 shares under our 2000 Stock Option/Stock Issuance Plan and 2005 Stock Incentive Plan of which 214,277 were vested. In February 2007, we filed a Form S-8 registration statement to register all the shares of common stock issuable under our equity incentive plans, including the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan. Approximately 16,431,898 shares of our common stock, on a fully-diluted basis assuming exercise of all outstanding options, were subject to a 180-day “lock-up” period following our initial public offering. Following the expiration of the 180-day “lock-up” period, the holders of those shares will generally be entitled to freely transfer those shares. Moreover, JPMorgan Securities Inc. may, in its sole discretion and at any time without notice, release those holders from the sale restrictions on their shares. In addition to the adverse effect a price decline could have on holders of our common stock, such a decline could impede our ability to raise capital or to make acquisitions through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. Trusts established by Austin McNamara, which own approximately 1,875,001 shares of our common stock, have not signed lock-up 44 agreements with the underwriters. They are subject to a 180 day lock-up agreement under the terms of the Investor’s Rights Agreement with us. We have been advised by the trusts that they do not believe such lock-up agreement is enforceable. We believe it is enforceable, but we cannot provide assurance that the trusts will not seek to have a court declare such lock-up agreement to be unenforceable. If they are successful, the trusts may be able to sell their shares prior to the expiration of the 180 day lock-up period and claim damages against us resulting from our refusal to allow a sale of their shares prior to the end of the lock-up period. Each of Stonington, the holder of approximately 9,867,285 shares of our common stock, the Zein and Samar Obagi Family Trust, the holder of approximately 4,064,167 shares of our common stock, the McNamara Family Irrevocable Trust, the holder of approximately 416,667 shares of our common stock, and the McNamara Family Trust, the holder of approximately 1,458,334 shares of our common stock, has rights to demand the registration of their shares or include their shares in registration statements that we may file on our behalf or on behalf of other stockholders. The partnership through which Stonington holds its shares has a termination date of March 29, 2007. Although Stonington may return the investment through a distribution of shares to the fund’s investors, Stonington has also exited its investments in publicly traded companies through a combination of sales under Rule 144, registered secondary offerings, and the distribution of shares to the fund’s investors. By exercising its registration rights and selling a large number of shares, Stonington could cause the price of our common stock to decline, which could impede our ability to make acquisitions through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock. Furthermore, if we file a registration statement to offer additional shares of our common stock and have to include shares held by Stonington or other holders of registration rights, it could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our common stock. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS None. 