Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our industry is very competitive in China. The domestic market for heat exchange products is fragmented and highly competitive. We compete with over 1,500 small-sized, local Chinese heat exchanger manufacturers. The number of these companies varies from time to time. While we may have greater resources than our smaller competitors, it is possible that these competitors have better access in certain local markets to customers and prospects and lower production and raw material costs. Some of our products compete on the basis of price and are sold in fragmented markets with low barriers to entry, allowing less expensive domestic producers to gain market share and reduce our margins. Foreign competition is intense and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to domestic competition, we face intense competition from foreign competitors. The intensity of foreign competition is affected significantly by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against Chinese currency and by the level of import duties imposed by the Chinese government on certain products. Our major international competitors are Alfa Laval and APV. Many of our competitors have more resources and greater brand recognition than we enjoy. While our resources may not be as great as our larger competitors, we believe our product quality and direct sales offices and distribution network are superior in China. If our competitors are able to gain greater market share or improve their sales efforts, our sales may decrease, we may be forced to lower our prices, or our marketing costs may increase, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. Our revenue will decrease if the industries in which our customers operate experience a protracted slowdown. Our products mainly serve as key components in projects operated by our customers who are mostly in the chemical, metallurgical, shipbuilding, HVAC and district heating industries. Therefore, we are subject to the general changes in economic conditions affecting those industry segments of the economy. If the industry segments in which our customers operate do not grow or if there is a contraction in those industries, demand for our valve products will decrease. Demand for our products is typically affected by a number of overarching economic factors, including, but not limited to, interest rates, the availability and magnitude of private and governmental investment in infrastructure projects and the health of the overall global economy. If there is a decline in economic activity in China and the other markets in which we operate or a protracted slowdown in industries on which we rely for our sales, demand for our products and our revenue will likewise decrease. 17 Approximately 31.23% of our sales revenues were derived from our ten largest customers and 4.60% of our sales revenues in 2009 were derived from our largest customer, and any reduction in revenues from any of these customers would reduce our revenues and net income. Approximately 31.23% of our sales revenue in 2009 came from our top ten customers, with China National Electric Equipment Corporation accounting for approximately 4.60% of our sales revenue in 2009. If we cease to do business at or above current levels with the top customers or with any other large customers who contribute significantly to our sales revenues, and we are unable to generate additional or substitute sales revenue, our net income would decline considerably. Any decrease in the availability, or increase in the cost, of raw materials could materially affect our earnings. Our operations depend heavily on the availability of various raw materials. The raw materials for our operations are mainly stainless steel plates, carbon steel plates, titanium steel plates, nickel steel plates and other steel based alloy. The availability of raw materials may decrease and their prices may fluctuate greatly. We have long-term relationships with several suppliers; however, if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with raw materials on terms favorable to us, we may be unable to produce certain products. This could result in a decrease in profit and damage to our reputation in our industry. In the event our raw material and energy costs increase, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers in full or at all. Any increase in the prices for raw materials or energy resources could materially increase our costs and therefore lower our earnings. Additionally, certain of our supply contracts are for fixed prices. Although we currently benefit from favorable pricing in some of these supply contracts, if market prices for these raw materials decline, we may not be able to take advantage of decreasing market prices, and our profit margins may suffer. Our rapid expansion could significantly strain our resources, management and operational infrastructure which could impair our ability to meet increased demand for our products and hurt our business results. To accommodate our anticipated growth, we will need to expend capital resources and dedicate personnel to implement and upgrade our accounting, operational and internal management systems and enhance our record keeping and contract tracking system. Such measures will require us to dedicate additional financial resources and personnel to optimize our operational infrastructure and to recruit more personnel to train and manage our growing employee base. If we cannot successfully implement these measures efficiently and cost-effectively, we will be unable to satisfy the demand for our products, which will impair our revenue growth and hurt our overall financial performance. Our business is capital intensive and our growth strategy may require additional capital which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We believe that our current cash, cash flow from operations and the proceeds from this offering will be sufficient to meet our present and reasonably anticipated capital and capital expenditure needs given the current state of our production line for the marketing of the products. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy to expand our manufacturing capacity or other investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our own financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our capital requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by us to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, could limit our ability to expand our business operations and could harm our overall business prospects. We depend heavily on key personnel, and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, including Guohong Zhao, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Jianjun He, our Chief Financial Officer. They also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee, if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position, or if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Significant turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete our institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team. We depend on the skills and abilities of these key employees in managing the manufacturing, technical, marketing and sales aspects of our business, any part of which could be harmed by turnover in the future. Unexpected equipment failures may damage our business due to production curtailments or shutdowns. We conduct periodic inspection and maintenance of all of our equipment to minimize the impact of interruption of production and prevent breakdown because this machinery is highly specialized and cannot be repaired or replaced without significant expense and time delay. On occasion, our equipment may be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures which may result in material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production. Interruptions in production capabilities will inevitably increase production costs and reduce our sales and earnings. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or adverse weather conditions. Furthermore, any interruption in production capability may require us to make large capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. Although we have business interruption insurance, we cannot provide any assurance that the insurance will cover all losses that we experience as a result of the equipment failures. In addition, longer-term business disruption could result in a loss of customers. If this were to occur, our future sales levels, and therefore our profitability, could be adversely affected. 18 Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly. We strive to strengthen and differentiate our product portfolio by developing new and efficient manufacturing processes and innovative products and product improvements. We maintain seven utility model patents and three registered trademarks and one trademark application pending registration with State Trademark Bureau of PRC as intellectual property assets. We believe that the protection of our intellectual property will become increasingly important to our business. Implementation and enforcement of intellectual property-related laws in China has historically been lacking due primarily to ambiguities in PRC intellectual property law. Accordingly, protection of intellectual property and proprietary rights in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. We will continue to rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights to provide protection in this regard, but this protection may be inadequate. For example, our pending or future patent applications may not be approved or, if allowed, they may not be of sufficient strength or scope. As a result, third parties may use the technologies and proprietary processes that we have developed and compete with us, which could negatively affect any competitive advantage we enjoy, dilute our brand and harm our operating results. In addition, policing the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and given the relative unpredictability of China’s legal system and potential difficulties enforcing a court judgment in China, there is no guarantee litigation would result in an outcome favorable to us. Furthermore, any such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention away from our core business. An adverse determination in any lawsuit involving our intellectual property is likely to jeopardize our business prospects and reputation. We have no insurance coverage against litigation costs so we would be forced to bear all litigation costs if we cannot recover them from other parties. All of the foregoing factors could harm our business and financial condition. If our customers and/or the ultimate consumers of products that use our products successfully assert product liability claims against us due to defects in our products, our operating results may suffer and our reputation may be harmed. Due to the high pressures and temperatures at which many of our products are used and the fact that some of our products are relied upon by our customers or end users in their facilities or operations, or are manufactured for relatively broad consumer use, we face an inherent risk of exposure to claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury, property damage or economic loss. We believe that we meet or exceed existing professional specification standards recognized or required in the industries in which we operate. We have been subject to claims in the past, none of which have had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and we may be subject to claims in the future. We currently do not maintain product liability coverage and such insurance may be difficult to obtain on terms acceptable to us and may not cover warranty claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us, including one or more consumer claims purporting to constitute class actions, or a significant warranty claim or series of claims against us could materially decrease our liquidity and impair our financial condition. Our products may become subject to recall in the event of defects or other performance related issues. We are at risk for product recall costs which are costs incurred when, either voluntarily or involuntarily, a product is recalled through a formal campaign to solicit the return of specific products due to a known or suspected performance defect. Costs typically include the cost of the product, part or component being replaced, the cost of the recall borne by our customers and labor to remove and replace the defective part or component. Our products have not been the subject of an open recall. If a recall decision is made, we will need to estimate the cost of the recall and record a charge to earnings in that period. In making this estimate, judgment is required as to the quantity or volume to be recalled, the total cost of the recall campaign, the ultimate negotiated sharing of the cost between us and our distributor or customer. As a result, these estimates are subject to change. Excessive recall costs or our failure to adequately estimate these costs may negatively affect our operating results. Certain of our existing stockholders have substantial influence over our company, and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other stockholders. Ms. Jinghua Zhao is the indirect, beneficial owner of approximately 92.5% of our common stock. As a result, she has significant influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a future change of control, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our shares. We have limited insurance coverage and do not carry any business interruption insurance, third-party liability insurance for our manufacturing facilities or insurance that covers the risk of loss of our products in shipment. Operation of our manufacturing facilities involves many risks, including equipment failures, natural disasters, industrial accidents, power outages, labor disturbances and other business interruptions. Furthermore, if any of our products are faulty, then we may become subject to product liability claims or we may have to engage in a product recall. We do not carry any business interruption insurance, product recall or third-party liability insurance for our manufacturing facilities or with respect to our products to cover claims pertaining to personal injury or property or environmental damage arising from defaults with our products, product recalls, accidents on our property or damage relating to our operations. Therefore, our existing insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all risks associated with our business. As a result, we may be required to pay for financial and other losses, damages and liabilities, including those caused by natural disasters and other events beyond our control, out of our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company's financial statements must also attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. We were not subject to these requirements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. Under current law, we will be subject to these requirements beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. We have identified that in our internal control system we do not have accounting staff who are experienced with US GAAP, we do not have qualified resources to perform the internal audit functions properly and we lack an internal audit department. Our management have identified the steps necessary to address the material weaknesses, including hiring experienced accounting staff and early evaluation and review of complex and non-routine transactions. However, we can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. There can be no assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Our holding company structure may limit the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in RMB, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of RMB into U.S. dollars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. Chinese regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after tax profits according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. Currently, our subsidiaries in China are the only sources of revenues or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under Chinese accounting standards and regulations to first fund certain reserve funds as required by Chinese accounting standards, we will be unable to pay any dividends. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. We believe that we are not considered a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our tax year ending December 31, 2009. However, each year we must make a separate determination as to whether we are a PFIC. We cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our tax year ending December 31, 2010 or any following tax year. If a non-U.S. corporation either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income for a tax year or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a tax year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income, then the non-U.S. corporation will be deemed a PFIC. The market value of our assets may be determined to a large extent by the market price of our Ordinary Shares, which is likely to fluctuate after this offering. Furthermore, how we spend as well as how quickly we spend the proceeds from the offering will affect the composition of our income and assets. If we are treated as a PFIC for any tax year during which U.S. holders hold Ordinary Shares, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. holders. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could hurt our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in China, which may experience corruption. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. 20 Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm us and our operating results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: Level of government involvement in the economy; Control of foreign exchange; Methods of allocating resources; Balance of payments position; International trade restrictions; and International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. For example, state-owned enterprises still constitute a large portion of the Chinese economy and weak corporate governance and a lack of flexible currency exchange policy still prevail in China. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy was similar to those of the OECD member countries. Our business is largely subject to the uncertain legal environment in China and your legal protection could be limited. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the legal protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of our executive officers and our directors are residents of China and not of the U.S., and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against our Chinese operations and subsidiaries. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as - -2.2% . These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products and our company. 21 Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in Renminbi and U.S. dollars, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75 by (i) purporting to cover the establishment or acquisition of control by PRC residents of offshore entities which merely acquire “control” over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; (ii) adding requirements relating to the source of the PRC resident’s funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; (iii) covering the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; (iv) purporting to cover situations in which an offshore SPV establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; and (v) making the domestic affiliate of the SPV responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 75 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations, and Notice 106 makes the offshore SPV jointly responsible for these filings. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006; this date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the Registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the SPV and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV’s affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. We believe our stockholders who are PRC residents as defined in Circular 75 have registered with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. However, we cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, and they have made all necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by Circular 75. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with Circular 75, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Our business and financial performance may be materially adversely affected if the PRC regulatory authorities determine that our acquisition of Siping Juyuan constitutes a Round-trip Investment without MOFCOM approval. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, or the 2006 M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. According to the 2006 M&A Rule, a “Round-trip Investment” is defined as having taken place when a PRC business that is owned by PRC individual(s) is sold to a non-PRC entity that is established or controlled, directly or indirectly, by those same PRC individual(s). Under the 2006 M&A Rules, any Round-trip Investment must be approved by the MOFCOM, and any indirect arrangement or series of arrangements which achieves the same end result without the approval of MOFCOM is a violation of PRC law. 22 On June 30, 2009, Mr. Guohong Zhao, our Chairman and CEO and a founder of Siping Juyuan, entered into an option agreement with Ms. Jinghua Zhao, the sole shareholder of Wisetop, pursuant to which Mr. Guohong Zhao was granted an option, exercisable after 180 days, to acquire all of the equity interests of Wisetop owned by Ms. Jinghua Zhao at an exercise price of $3,246,160. This option expires on June 30, 2011. Also on June 30, 2009, Wisetop entered into separate option agreements with the other original founders of Siping Juyuan, pursuant to which such founders were granted options, exercisable after 90 days, to purchase an aggregate of 10,240,786 shares of our common stock owned by Wisetop at a total exercise price of $7,291,440. These options also expire on June 30, 2011. After Mr. Guohong Zhao and the founders (collectively referred to herein as the PRC Individuals) exercise these options, they will be our controlling stockholders. Their acquisition of our equity interest, or the Acquisition, is required to be registered with the competent administration of industry and commerce authorities, or AIC, in Beijing. The PRC Individuals are required to make filings with the Beijing SAFE, to register the Company and its non-PRC subsidiaries to qualify them as SPVs, pursuant to Circular 75 and Circular 106. The PRC regulatory authorities may take the view that the Acquisition and the Share Exchange Agreement are part of an overall series of arrangements which constitute a Round-trip Investment, because at the end of these transactions, the PRC Individuals will become majority owners and effective controlling parties of a foreign entity that acquired ownership of our Chinese subsidiaries. The PRC regulatory authorities may also take the view that the registration of the Acquisition with the relevant AIC in Beijing and the filings with the Beijing SAFE may not be evidence that the Acquisition has been properly approved because the relevant parties did not fully disclose to the AIC, SAFE or MOFCOM the overall restructuring arrangements, the existence of the Share Exchange Agreement and its link with the Acquisition. If the PRC regulatory authorities take the view that the Acquisition constitutes a Round-trip Investment under the 2006 M&A Rules, we cannot assure you we may be able to obtain the approval required from MOFCOM. If the PRC regulatory authorities take the view that the Acquisition constitutes a Round-trip Investment without MOFCOM approval, they could invalidate our acquisition and ownership of our Chinese subsidiaries. Additionally, the PRC regulatory authorities may take the view that the Acquisition constitutes a transaction which requires the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, before MOFCOM approval is obtained. We believe that if this takes place, we may be able to find a way to re-establish control of our Chinese subsidiaries’ business operations through a series of contractual arrangements rather than an outright purchase of our Chinese subsidiaries. But we cannot assure you that such contractual arrangements will be protected by PRC law or that the registrant can receive as complete or effective economic benefit and overall control of our Chinese subsidiaries’ business than if the Company had direct ownership of our Chinese subsidiaries. In addition, we cannot assure you that such contractual arrangements can be successfully effected under PRC law. If we cannot obtain MOFCOM or CSRC approval if required by the PRC regulatory authorities to do so, and if we cannot put in place or enforce relevant contractual arrangements as an alternative and equivalent means of control of our Chinese subsidiaries, our business and financial performance will be materially adversely affected. Under the New EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the New EIT Law and its implementation non-Chinese enterprise or group controlled offshore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an offshore jurisdiction and controlled by a Chinese enterprise or group will be classified as a “non-domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if (i) its senior management in charge of daily operation reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (ii) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (iii) its substantial properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (iv) ½ directors with voting rights or senior management often resident in China. Such resident enterprise would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and must pay a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when paying dividends to its non-PRC shareholders. However, it remains unclear as to whether the Notice is applicable to an offshore enterprise incorporated by a Chinese natural person. Nor are detailed measures on imposition of tax from non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. 23 However, as our case substantially meets the foregoing criteria, there is a likelihood that we are deemed to be a resident enterprise by Chinese tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the 2008 tax year and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. The value of our securities will be affected by the currency exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, if we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operational needs and the RMB appreciates against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, our business, and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ system. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. We are subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called “penny stocks” to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. If our common stock becomes a “penny stock,” we may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, or the Penny Stock Rule. This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a change-in-control. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights and redemption rights provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent the stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. 24 