ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary description of some of the material risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, including our future financial and operational results. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following statements should be carefully considered in evaluating us. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Because our business model is continuing to develop, our past operating results may not be indicative of future performance, and our future operating results may fluctuate materially and may increase your investment risk. We were formed in November 2005 and have a limited operating history. In 2011, we made the strategic decision to focus our media business on in-stream video advertising and to move away from in-banner video advertising. This strategy may not prove to be a successful. As a result of our focus on delivering in-stream video advertising, we have experienced a significant reduction in our in-banner revenue. Substantially all of our revenue in 2013 and 2012 was generated by the sale of in-stream video ads through the Tremor Video Network. Additionally, in 2012, we began licensing VideoHub analytics to brand advertisers and their agencies and, more recently, to publishers. Although we have experienced significant growth in revenue generation in recent periods, our relatively short operating history and developing business model make it difficult to assess our future prospects. The success of our business faces a number of challenges, including: · continuing to innovate and improve the technologies that enable us to provide our solutions; · maintaining and expanding our existing relationships, and developing new relationships with, brand advertisers and premium publishers; 12 Table of Contents · increasing the level of spending by our brand advertisers; · the growth, evolution and rate of adoption of industry standards; · offering competitive pricing to brand advertisers; · offering competitive rates to premium publishers; · delivering online video advertising campaign performance results that are superior to those that brand advertisers receive through the use of competing providers or technologies; · competing effectively against traditional and online media companies to increase our share of brand advertising spend; · ensuring that our clients’ video ads are shown in brand-safe environments; · maintaining and increasing the value of our brand and goodwill with brand advertisers and premium publishers; · effectively controlling our costs as we grow our business; · responding to evolving government regulations relating to the internet, telecommunications, privacy, marketing and advertising aspects of our business; · developing market acceptance for our licensed VideoHub analytics solution and programmatic buying solutions; and · identifying, attracting, retaining and motivating qualified personnel. Our ability to meet these challenges will help determine whether we can successfully leverage our business model to achieve profitability and growth in the future. We cannot assure our ability to achieve this goal, to generate consistent and improving operating results, or even to maintain the same level of success that we have had to date. If we fail to meet these challenges, our operating results may fluctuate materially and may increase your investment risk. We have incurred significant net losses since inception, and we expect our operating expenses to increase significantly in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred operating losses since we were formed and expect to incur operating losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $13.5 million, $16.6 million and $21.0 million in fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit of $110.9 million as of December 31, 2013 (which includes a $15.8 million deemed dividend related to the conversion of our Series F preferred stock on July 2, 2013). We do not know if we will be able to achieve profitability or maintain profitability on a continued basis. Although our revenue has increased substantially in recent periods, we may not be able to maintain this rate of revenue growth. We anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase as we scale our business and expand our operations. In particular, we plan to continue to invest in our technology and development efforts and sales and marketing efforts and further increase the number of our programmatic and enterprise focused sales and marketing professionals. We also expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars as a result of operating as a public company. Our ability to achieve or sustain profitability is based on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may never be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. Unfavorable conditions in the global economy or the vertical markets we serve could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results. General worldwide economic conditions have experienced significant instability in recent years. These conditions make it extremely difficult for brand advertisers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and could cause our brand advertisers to reduce or delay their advertising spending. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in advertising spending. For example, our operating results for the second and third quarters of 2011 were adversely affected by a reduction in video advertising spending because of uncertainty and volatility caused by the U.S. budget and European financial crises. Additionally, our operating results for the first quarter of 2012 were adversely affected by the challenging global economic outlook. If macroeconomic conditions deteriorate, advertisers may curtail or freeze spending on advertising in general and for solutions such as ours specifically. Furthermore, we generally sell through insertion orders with ad agencies. These insertion orders generally do not include long-term obligations and are cancelable upon short notice and without penalty in accordance with standard terms and 13 Table of Contents conditions for the purchase of internet advertising published by the Interactive Advertising Bureau. Any reduction in advertising spending could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results. In addition, our business may be materially and adversely affected by weak economic conditions in the specific vertical markets that we serve. In 2013, we derived the majority of our revenue from advertisers in the consumer packaged goods, entertainment and automotive industries. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery. In addition, even if the overall economy improves, we cannot assure you that the market for online video advertising solutions will experience growth or that we will experience growth. If we fail to adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology and client needs, our solutions may become less competitive or obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt and innovate. To attract new brand advertisers and increase spend by existing brand advertisers, we will need to expand and enhance our solutions to meet client needs, add functionality and address technological advancements. If we fail to develop new solutions that address brand advertiser needs, or enhance and improve our solutions in a timely manner or conform to industry standards, we may not be able to achieve or maintain adequate market acceptance of our solutions, and our solutions may become less competitive or obsolete. Our ability to grow is also subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. If new technologies emerge that are able to deliver video advertising solutions at lower prices or more efficiently or effectively than our solutions, such technologies could adversely impact our ability to compete. For example, if we fail to achieve success with our programmatic media buying solution or if our mobile solution is not considered effective, our business and growth prospects could be harmed. The market in which we participate is intensely competitive and fragmented, and we may not be able to compete successfully with our current or future competitors. The online video advertising market is highly competitive. We compete with large online video publishers such as Hulu, LLC and YouTube, LLC, which is owned by Google Inc., as well as advertising technology companies, advertising networks, DSPs, supply side platforms and exchanges, some of which transact programmatically. They, or other companies that offer competing advertising solutions, may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with brand advertisers, ad agencies, agency holding companies or publishers, thereby limiting our ability to promote our solutions and generate revenue. Competitive pressures could require us to reduce the prices we charge advertisers or increase the prices we pay to publishers. For example, the online video advertising industry has recently experienced and may continue to experience price erosion due to the influx of online video ad inventory as well as the automation of ad buying. In the traditional media space, our primary competitors for middle of the funnel advertising spend are mainly cable TV broadcasters, radio broadcasters and print media publishers, some of which also have a digital presence. Across the digital media landscape, we compete for advertising spend with large entities such as Google, Inc., Facebook, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, AOL Inc. and Yahoo! Inc. that offer video advertising services as part of a larger solution for digital media buying. Many of these competitors and potential competitors have significant client relationships, much larger financial resources and longer operating histories than we have and may be less severely affected by changes in consumer preferences, regulations or other developments that may impact the online video advertising industry as a whole. Our business may suffer to the extent that our advertisers and publishers purchase and sell online video advertising directly from each other or through other companies that are able to become intermediaries between advertisers and publishers. New technologies and methods of buying advertising present a dynamic competitive challenge, as market participants offer multiple new products and services such as analytics, programmatic media buying and exchanges, and bundled offline and online video advertising, aimed at capturing advertising spend. If the market shifts towards such new technologies and we are unable to either provide such solutions in a compelling manner or otherwise compete with such shift in ad spending, we may incur increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses or the loss of market share. For example, we believe that our revenue in the second half of 2013 was negatively impacted by an increase in the prevalence of programmatic video ad buying compared to campaigns purchased on a managed basis. If there is a delay in, or failure to adopt, our programmatic buying solutions our business and growth prospects could be harmed. We believe we compete for brand advertiser spend primarily on the basis of proven technology and optimization capabilities, pricing, quality and scale of online video inventory, depth and breadth of relationships with brand advertisers and premium publishers, multi-channel capabilities, brand-centric measurement, ability to ensure brand safety and transparency into ad performance and placement. Our competitors or potential competitors may adopt certain aspects of our business model, which could reduce our ability 14 Table of Contents to differentiate our solutions. As market dynamics change, or new campaign purchasing patterns arise, or as new and existing competitors introduce more competitive pricing or new or disruptive technologies, we may be unable to maintain our brand advertisers’ existing spend with us, renew our agreements with existing exclusive premium publishers, or attract new advertisers or publishers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as previously used. As a result, we may be required to change our pricing models, introduce new pricing models and incur additional expenses in response to competitive pressures, which could harm our revenue, profitability and operating results. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. We operate in a new and rapidly evolving industry. If the online video advertising industry does not develop or develops more slowly than we expect, our operating results and growth prospects could be harmed. Online video advertising is an emerging industry, and future demand and market acceptance for online video advertising is uncertain. Many brand advertisers have limited experience with online brand advertising, generally, and online video advertising specifically, and may continue to devote more significant portions of their advertising budgets to traditional, offline-based advertising, such as television and print, and may not devote significant portions of their advertising budgets to online video advertising. Additionally, we compete for online advertising spend with other products and technologies such as search, display and in-banner video as well as advertising networks and exchanges. We believe that the continued growth and acceptance of online video ad spending by brand advertisers generally will depend on the perceived effectiveness and the acceptance of our solutions, which are still emerging and evolving, and the continued growth in commercial use of online media, as well as other factors. Additionally, brand advertisers may find online video advertising to be less effective than traditional offline channels, such as television, newspapers, radio and billboards, or other online methods for promoting their products and services, and they may reduce their spending on online video advertising from current levels as a result. Accordingly, if the market for online video advertising deteriorates, or develops more slowly than we expect, our operating results and growth prospects could be harmed. We generate substantially all of our revenue from the Tremor Video Network. We generate substantially all of our revenue from the Tremor Video Network. Due to the concentration in our revenue, we are potentially subject to greater risks than more diversified companies. While we began licensing VideoHub analytics in 2012, there can be no assurance that a market will develop for this solution or that licensing revenue will increase. Additionally, we may develop other solutions from time to time, such as our recently introduced programmatic buying solution, but there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop these solutions or that a market will develop for them. As a result, we expect to be substantially dependent upon revenue generated from the Tremor Video Network for the foreseeable future. Due to our limited historical experience, we may not be able to accurately predict future usage trends. We may be unable to retain key advertisers, attract new advertisers or replace departing advertisers with advertisers that can provide comparable revenue to us. Our success requires us to maintain and expand our relationships with our existing brand advertisers, including the ad agencies that represent them, and to develop new relationships with other brand advertisers and ad agencies. Generally, we sell through insertion orders with ad agencies. These insertion orders generally do not include long-term obligations requiring them to purchase from us and are cancelable upon short notice and without penalty in accordance with standard terms and conditions for the purchase of internet advertising published by the Interactive Advertising Bureau. As a result, we have limited visibility as to our future advertising revenue streams from our advertisers. Our advertisers’ usage may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to: · the performance of their video ad campaigns and their perception of the efficacy and efficiency of their advertising spend through the Tremor Video Network; · changes in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy generally, which could alter current or prospective advertisers’ spending priorities; · our access to premium inventory; · our ability to deliver video ad campaigns in full, i.e., our ability to serve each requested impression; · their satisfaction with our solutions and our client support; 15 Table of Contents · the ability of our optimization algorithms underlying our solutions to deliver better rates of return on video ad spend dollars than competing solutions; · seasonal patterns in advertisers’ spending, which tend to be discretionary; · the pricing of our or competing solutions; and · reductions in spending levels or changes in brand advertisers’ strategies regarding video advertising spending. If a major advertiser decides to materially reduce its advertising spend through the Tremor Video Network, it could do so on short or no notice, which could impair our operating results. We cannot assure that our advertisers will continue to use the Tremor Video Network or that we will be able to replace in a timely or effective manner departing advertisers with new advertisers from whom we generate comparable revenue. If an advertiser fails to pay for ad requests that we have fulfilled, we would still be required to pay the publisher for its ad inventory. We purchase video ad inventory from our publishers to connect our advertiser clients with engaged audiences through the Tremor Video Network. If advertisers fail to pay for ad requests we have filled, we would still be required to pay the publisher for its ad inventory. Any significant failure by advertisers to pay us could adversely affect our operating results. We are highly dependent on advertising agencies and their holding companies as intermediaries, and this may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain business. Our business focuses on brand advertisers that rely upon advertising agencies in planning and purchasing advertising. Although we maintain relationships with the owners of brands, we do not contract with them directly. Instead, we sell to advertising agencies that utilize our solutions on behalf of their clients. Each advertising agency allocates advertising spend from brand advertisers across numerous channels. We do not have exclusive relationships with advertising agencies and we depend on agencies to work with us as they embark on marketing campaigns for brands. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relationships with an advertising agency, we risk losing business from the brand advertisers represented by that agency. If the advertising agency is owned by a holding company, this risk is magnified because we also risk losing business from the other agencies owned by such holding company and the brand advertisers those agencies represent. Consolidation among agency holding companies could increase this risk. Because advertising agencies act as intermediaries for multiple brand advertisers, our client base is more concentrated than might be reflected by the number of brand advertisers that run campaigns through the Tremor Video Network. Further, our revenue could be adversely impacted by industry changes relating to the use of advertising agencies. For example, if brand advertisers seek to bring their marketing campaigns in-house rather than using an advertising agency, we would need to enter agreements with the brand advertisers directly, which we might not be able to do and which could increase our sales and marketing expense. Moreover, as a result of dealing primarily with advertising agencies, advertisers may attribute the value we provide to the advertising agency rather than to us, further limiting our ability to develop long term relationships directly with brand advertisers. Brand advertisers may move from one advertising agency to another, and, accordingly, even if we have a positive relationship with an advertising agency, we may lose the underlying business when an advertiser switches to a new agency. The presence of advertising agencies as intermediaries between us and the advertisers thus creates a challenge to building our own brand awareness and affinity with the advertisers that are the ultimate source of our revenue. In addition, advertising agencies that are our clients also offer or may offer some of the components of our solutions, including selling ad inventory through their own trading desks. As such, these advertising agencies are, or may become, our competitors. If they further develop their capabilities, they may be more likely to offer their own solutions to advertisers, and our ability to compete effectively could be compromised. If brand advertisers do not perceive meaningful benefits from performance-based advertising solutions, then our revenue and gross margins may be adversely affected. The Tremor Video Network enables brand advertisers to only pay for advertising that “performed”. Our performance-based pricing models include cost per engagement, or CPE, pricing where we are compensated only when viewers actively engage with advertisers’ campaigns, such as by interacting with the elements of the video ad through clicks or screen touches or by rolling over certain elements of the video ad for at least three seconds, and cost per video completion, or CPVC, pricing where we are 16 Table of Contents compensated only when a viewer completes the video ad. In October 2013, we introduced additional performance-based pricing models where we are compensated only when a campaign results in a positive shift in the consumer’s favorability or intent towards a brand (which we refer to as cost per brand-shift, or CPS) or when a consumer’s intent is shifted away from a competing brand (which we refer to as cost per conquest, or CPQ). Building on our CPVC offering, we also announced a new pricing model where we are only compensated when a video ad is both completed and viewable by the viewer for the duration of the ad (which we refer to as CPV&C). We will continue to offer our CPE-priced and CPVC-priced offerings in addition to these newly announced performance-based pricing models. The market for performance-based advertising solutions is evolving and has not yet been widely adopted by brand advertisers. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from ad campaigns that are priced on a performance basis. Under performance-based pricing models, advertisers only pay us if the applicable performance metrics are satisfied. We believe performance-based pricing generally provides greater margins than CPM priced campaigns, because we are often able to serve our advertisers’ performance goals with a lower number of purchased impressions. Historically, a larger portion of brand advertisers’ online advertising budgets have been based on the number of impressions served, such as cost per thousand impressions, or CPM, without regard to performance, and such advertisers may be reluctant or slow to adopt performance-based pricing solutions, including the new suite of performance-based pricing models that we introduced in October 2013. Additionally, during the last half of 2013, an increased number of campaigns were run on the Tremor Video Network on a CPM-basis with demo guarantees compared to prior periods. For this period, these campaigns had lower gross margins than our CPE- and CPVC-priced campaigns as well as CPM-priced campaigns without demo guarantees. Campaigns priced on a performance-basis or a CPM-basis with demo guarantees are subject to the risk that we may purchase ad inventory that we are unable to monetize if the purchased inventory does not perform for our advertisers. If brand advertisers do not perceive meaningful benefits from our performance-based advertising solutions, our revenue and gross margins may be adversely affected. If we fail to maintain or increase our access to premium advertising inventory, our operating results may be harmed. Our success requires us to maintain and expand our access to premium video advertising inventory. We do not own or control the video ad inventory upon which our business depends. We purchase this ad inventory from our publishers generally either in exclusive one year agreements or by spot purchases. These publishers are generally not required to provide us with a specified level of inventory, and we cannot assure you that our exclusive publishers will renew their agreements with us or continue to make their ad inventory available to us. In addition, we review our publishers and have removed, and may in the future remove, publishers from our network based on the quality of the inventory, the demographic reach of the inventory, viewer experience and our confidence in the integrity of their ad requests. As a result, we may have limited visibility as to our future access to inventory from publishers. If a publisher decides not to make video ad inventory available to us or if we decide to remove a publisher from our network, we may not be able to replace this ad inventory with comparable ad inventory quickly enough to fulfill our brand advertisers’ requests. Additionally, with respect to CPM-priced campaigns sold with demo guarantees, if we are unable to access inventory targeted to the selected demographic on a cost-effective basis our margins could be adversely affected. Publishers have a variety of channels in which to sell their video ad inventory, including direct sales forces and supply side platforms. Under our exclusive arrangements, a publisher’s direct sales force may sell their own video ad inventory, and many of our exclusive publishers maintain significant direct sales forces. Furthermore, the scope of exclusivity with respect to the third party monetization of video ad inventory varies with publishers, with some publishers imposing geographical, device, or inventory type limitations. Any increase in a publisher’s direct sales efforts may negatively impact our access to that publisher’s inventory. Additionally, if publishers sell their non-exclusive inventory through supply side platforms, or if our competitors offer higher prices for their ad inventory, our ability to obtain ad inventory on a cost-effective basis may be affected. If we are unable to maintain or increase our access to premium video ad inventory, our operating results may be harmed. We may not be able to adequately satisfy the supply from our exclusive publishers with demand from our advertisers. Substantially all of our exclusive publisher agreements obligate us to fill a specified percentage of the video ad inventory that they make available to us, which we refer to as an ad request. In some cases, there is no cap on our fill obligation. If we are unable to deliver ad campaigns to this inventory, we will bear the loss on those unfilled ad requests. This risk can be magnified during certain times of the year when we see increased ad requests from our exclusive publishers coupled with reduced purchase demand from our advertisers. Additionally, in order to satisfy our required fill obligations, we may have to serve less optimized inventory to our advertisers. This may negatively impact the performance of an ad campaign, which could particularly impact us with respect to our campaigns that are priced on a performance basis. As a result, our margins may be negatively impacted even if we are able to fully satisfy the fill obligation. 17 Table of Contents Any significant failure to adequately match demand from our advertisers with supply from our publishers would harm our operating results. If we fail to detect fraud or other actions that impact video ad campaign performance, we could lose the confidence of advertisers or agencies, which would cause our business to suffer. Our business relies on effectively and efficiently delivering video ad campaigns for brand advertisers. We have in the past, and may in the future, be subject to fraudulent and malicious activities. An example of such activities would be the use of bots, non-human traffic delivered by machines that are designed to simulate human users and artificially inflate user traffic on websites. These activities could overstate the performance of any given video ad campaign and could harm our reputation. It may be difficult to detect fraudulent or malicious activity because we do not own content and rely in part on our publisher partners for controls with respect to such activity. While we assess the campaign performance on our publishers’ websites, such assessments may not detect or prevent fraudulent or malicious activity. Further, we may need to improve over time our processes for assessing the quality of publisher ad requests. If fraudulent or other malicious activity is perpetrated by others, and we fail to detect or prevent it, the affected advertisers may experience or perceive a reduced return on their investment and our reputation may be harmed. High levels of fraudulent or malicious activity could lead to dissatisfaction with our solutions, refusals to pay, refund demands or withdrawal of future business. If we fail to detect fraud or other actions that impact the performance of our video ad campaigns, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers or agencies, which could cause our business to suffer. We only recently began licensing VideoHub analytics and if a market for this solution fails to develop, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. We only recently began licensing VideoHub analytics, and demand for this solution by advertisers, agencies or publishers may not develop or may develop more slowly than we expect. Third parties from which we license certain data utilized by these solutions may terminate such licenses or be unwilling to renew such licenses on terms that are satisfactory to us. Additionally, our ability to measure campaigns running through publishers that do not provide inventory to the Tremor Video Network depends on such publishers accepting our tags on their sites. If a publisher does not accept our tags, VideoHub will not be able to track video ad campaign performance across these sites. This inability could potentially diminish the value of our licensing solution to our advertiser and agency clients for non-Tremor Video Network video ad campaigns. Additionally, our competitors may develop competitive solutions that gain greater market acceptance than our licensed solutions. If the market for these solutions fails to develop, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. Our sales efforts with advertisers, agencies and publishers require significant time and expense. Attracting new brand advertisers, ad agencies and premium publishers requires significant time and expense, and we may not be successful in establishing new relationships or in maintaining or advancing our current relationships. For example, certain brand advertisers may have no or limited experience with online video advertising or may be unfamiliar with our solutions. In addition, brand advertisers’ purchasing decisions typically are made and coordinated by their advertising agencies and require input from multiple constituencies. The process of selling our solutions to brand advertisers and ad agencies can therefore be time-consuming. With respect to our publishers, we often seek to establish exclusive long-term relationships to ensure access to premium content for our brand advertisers. As a result, we invest significant time in cultivating relationships with our publishers to ensure they understand the potential benefits of monetization of their inventory with us rather than with third-party media networks and exchanges. The relationship building process can take many months and may not result in us winning an opportunity with any given advertiser, agency or publisher. Our technology and online video brand advertising are relatively new and often require us to spend substantial time and effort educating potential advertisers and publishers about our solutions, including providing demonstrations and comparisons against other available services. This process can be costly and time-consuming. If we are not successful in streamlining our sales processes with advertisers and publishers, our ability to grow our business may be adversely affected. We experience fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors which make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations. Our operating results have historically fluctuated and our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Period-to-period comparisons of our operating results should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Given our relatively short operating history and the rapidly evolving online video advertising industry, our historical operating results may not be useful in predicting our future operating results. Factors that may affect our operating results include the following: 18 Table of Contents · changes in the economic prospects of advertisers, the industries we primarily serve, or the economy generally, which could alter current or prospective advertisers’ spending priorities, or could increase the time it takes us to close sales with advertisers; · the addition of new advertisers or the loss of existing advertisers; · changes in demand for our solutions; · changes in the amount, price and quality of available video advertising inventory from publishers; · the timing and amount of sales and marketing expenses incurred to attract new advertisers and publishers; · the cancellation or delay of campaigns by brand advertisers; · changes in our pricing policies, the pricing policies of our competitors or the pricing of online video advertising generally, including the relative mix of performance-priced campaigns, CPM-priced campaigns with demo guarantees, and CPM-priced campaigns without demo guarantees; · timing differences at the end of each period between our payments to publishers for advertising inventory and our collection of advertising revenue related to that inventory; and · costs related to acquisitions of other businesses. Our operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts and investors in some future periods. If this happens, even just temporarily, the market price of our common stock may fall. Our revenue tends to be seasonal in nature. Our revenue tends to be seasonal in nature, with the third and fourth quarters of each calendar year historically representing the largest percentage of our total revenue for the year and the first quarter of each calendar year historically representing the lowest percentage of our total revenue for the year. Many of the brand advertisers in the verticals we serve spend significant portions of their advertising budgets during the third quarter, in connection with summer, back to school and entertainment events, and in the fourth quarter, in connection with the holiday season. During the first quarter, brand advertisers generally devote less of their budgets to ad spending, and as a result, our exclusive publishers generally make a larger proportion of their ad inventory available to us. This combination generally results in lower revenue and gross margins for us during the first quarter of each calendar year. Our operating cash flows could also fluctuate materially from period to period as a result of these seasonal fluctuations. We have made and may make additional acquisitions that could entail significant execution, integration and operational risks. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, companies, technologies and solutions that we believe complement our business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: · difficulties in integrating the technologies, solutions, operations, existing contracts and personnel of a target company; · difficulties in supporting and transitioning clients, if any, of a target company; · diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations or alternative acquisition opportunities; · failure to realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of a transaction; · failure to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company, technology, or solution, including issues related to intellectual property, solution quality or architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or client issues; · risks of entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; 19 Table of Contents · potential loss of key employees, brand advertisers and publishers from either our current business or a target company’s business; · inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs; and · possible write-offs or impairment charges relating to acquired businesses. In addition, we may incur indebtedness to complete an acquisition, which may impose operational limitations, or issue equity securities, which would dilute our stockholders’ ownership. We may also unknowingly inherit liabilities from acquired businesses or assets that arise after the acquisition and are not adequately covered by indemnities. Additionally, acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. Foreign acquisitions involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address the risks described above could materially harm our business and financial results. We have limited international operations and any future international expansion may expose us to several risks, such as difficulty adapting our solutions for international markets. We have limited experience in marketing, selling and supporting our solutions abroad. During fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, more than 95% of our revenue was generated in the United States. While we have offices outside of North America in Singapore and the United Kingdom, substantially all of our operations are located in the United States. Any future international expansion of our business will involve a variety of risks, including: · localization of our solutions, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions; · differing labor regulations where labor laws may be more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States; · more stringent regulations relating to data security and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information, particularly in the European Union; · reluctance to allow personally identifiable data related to non-U.S. citizens to be stored in databases within the United States, due to concerns over the U.S. government’s right to access information in these databases or other concerns; · changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; · challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs; · risks resulting from changes in currency exchange rates; · limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries; · different or lesser intellectual property protection; and · exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions. Operating internationally requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required in establishing and expanding our international operations will produce desired levels of 20 Table of Contents revenue or profitability. If we invest substantial time and resources to establish and expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and operating results will suffer. We have not engaged in currency hedging activities to limit risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Changes in exchange rates affect our costs and earnings, and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside the United States and the amount of our stockholders’ equity. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing. Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds to expand our marketing and sales and technology development efforts or to make acquisitions. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Our credit facility matures in December 2014, and we may be unable to renew the credit facility on terms that are acceptable to us. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund the expansion of our marketing and sales and technology development efforts or take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities, which could harm our business and results of operations. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. As a result, our stockholders bear the risk of our future securities offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest. Provisions of our debt instruments may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our credit facility requires us, and any debt instruments we may enter into in the future may require us, to comply with various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: · dispose of assets; · complete mergers or acquisitions; · incur indebtedness; · encumber assets; · pay dividends or make other distributions to holders of our capital stock; · make specified investments; · change certain key management personnel; and · engage in transactions with our affiliates. These restrictions could inhibit our ability to pursue our business strategies. We are also subject to a financial covenant with respect to minimum monthly working capital levels. If we default under our credit facility, and such event of default is not cured or waived, the lender could terminate commitments to lend and cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to be due and payable immediately, which in turn could result in cross defaults under other debt instruments. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under all of our outstanding debt instruments if some or all of these instruments are accelerated upon a default. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. The debt instruments governing such indebtedness could contain provisions that are as, or more, restrictive than our existing debt instruments. If we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness when payment is due, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness or force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our financial performance may suffer. We have expanded our revenue, solutions, scale, employee headcount and overall business operations in recent periods. Our expansion has placed, and our expected future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, operational, product development, sales and marketing, administrative, financial and other resources. For instance, we expect to be substantially 21 Table of Contents dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new clients, and we plan to continue to expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. Newly hired sales personnel may not become productive as quickly as we would like, or at all, thus representing increased operating costs and lost opportunities which in turn would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we do not manage our growth effectively, successfully forecast demand for our solutions or manage our expected expenses accordingly, our operating results will be harmed. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our financial performance may suffer. We depend on key personnel to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain, attract and integrate qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully grow our business could be harmed. In addition to the continued services of William Day, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Steven Lee, a Senior Vice President and our Chief Technology Officer, we believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of our senior management, as well as our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and experienced technical and other personnel in the United States and abroad. We do not have key person insurance on any of our executives. All of our employees, including our senior management, are free to terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business, technology and industry may be difficult to replace. In addition, we believe that our senior management has developed highly successful and effective working relationships. If one or more of these individuals leave, we may not be able to fully integrate new executives or replicate the current dynamic and working relationships that have developed among our executive officers and other key personnel, and our operations could suffer. Qualified technical personnel are in high demand, particularly in the digital media industry, and we may incur significant costs to attract them. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel also have greater resources than us. Additionally, volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract employees and retain our key employees. If we are unable to attract and retain our senior management and key employees, our ability to develop and successfully grow our business could be harmed. Defects or errors in our solutions could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, impair our advertisers’ ability to deliver effective advertising campaigns and impair our ability to meet or fulfill obligations with publishers. The technology underlying our solutions, including our proprietary technology and technology provided by third-parties, may contain material defects or errors that can adversely affect our ability to operate our business and cause significant harm to our reputation. This risk is compounded by the complexity of the technology underlying our solutions and the large amounts of data we utilize. Errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems in our solutions could result in the incomplete or inaccurate delivery of an ad campaign, including serving an ad campaign in an incomplete or inaccurate manner, in an incorrect geographical location or in an environment that is detrimental to the advertiser’s brand health. Any such failure, malfunction, or disruption in service could result in damage to our reputation, our advertising clients withholding payment to us, advertisers or publishers making claims or initiating litigation against us, and our giving credits to our advertiser clients toward future advertising spend. In addition, the terms of our exclusive publisher agreements generally require us to pay for a percentage of the ad requests delivered by such publishers, even if we are unable to deliver our solutions due to disruptions in our technology. As a result, defects or errors in our solutions could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, impair our advertisers’ ability to deliver effective advertising campaigns and impair our ability to meet our fill obligations with publishers. System failures could significantly disrupt our operations and cause us to lose advertisers or publishers. Our success depends on the continuing and uninterrupted performance of our solutions, which we utilize to place video ads, monitor the performance of advertising campaigns, manage our advertising inventory and respond to publisher ad calls. Our revenue depends on our ability to categorize video content and deliver ads as well as measure campaigns on a real-time basis. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to deliver ads through the Tremor Video Network and provide access to our licensed solutions, including technological failures affecting our ability to deliver video ads quickly and accurately and to process viewers’ responses to ads or fill publisher ad requests, could significantly reduce the attractiveness of our solutions and reduce our revenue. Our systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, power outages, malicious human acts and natural disasters. In addition, any steps we take to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems may be expensive and may not be successful in preventing system failures. Any such system failures could significantly disrupt our operations and cause us to lose advertisers or publishers. Security breaches, computer viruses and computer hacking attacks could harm our business and results of operations. We collect, store and transmit information of, or on behalf of, our advertisers and publishers. We take steps to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the information we collect, store or transmit, but there is no guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information despite our efforts. Security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking attacks have become more prevalent in our industry and may 22 Table of Contents occur on our systems or those of our information technology vendors in the future. Any security breach caused by hacking, which involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, or the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses or other harmful software code could result in the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, or loss of information, legal claims and litigation, indemnity obligations, regulatory fines and penalties, contractual obligations and liabilities, and other liabilities. In addition, if our security measures or those of our vendors are breached or unauthorized access to consumer data otherwise occurs our solutions may be perceived as not being secure, and advertisers or publishers may reduce the use of or stop using our solutions. While we and our publishers have security measures in place, these systems and networks are subject to ongoing threats and, therefore, these security measures may be breached as a result of employee error, failure to implement appropriate processes and procedures, malfeasance, third-party action, including cyber-attacks or other international misconduct by computer hackers or otherwise. This could result in one or more third parties obtaining unauthorized access to our publishers’ or advertisers’ data or our data, including personally identifiable information or other viewer data, intellectual property and other confidential business information. Third parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our advertisers’ data or our data, including intellectual property and other confidential business information. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative or mitigation measures. Though it is difficult to determine what harm may directly result from any specific interruption or breach, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure or otherwise to maintain the confidentiality, security, and integrity of data that we store or otherwise maintain on behalf of third parties may harm our reputation and our relationships with advertisers, agencies or publishers or harm our ability to retain existing clients and attract new clients. Any of these could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If such unauthorized disclosure or access does occur, we may be required to notify our advertisers, agencies or publishers or those persons whose information was improperly used, disclosed or accessed. We may also be subject to claims of breach of contract for such use or disclosure, investigation and penalties by regulatory authorities and potential claims by persons whose information was improperly used or disclosed. The unauthorized use or disclosure of information may result in the termination of one or more of our commercial relationships or a reduction in advertiser, agency or publisher confidence and usage of our solutions. We may also be subject to litigation and regulatory action alleging the improper use, transmission or storage of confidential information, which could damage our reputation among our current and potential clients, require significant expenditures of capital and other resources and cause us to lose business and revenue. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data center hosting facilities and other third parties could impair the delivery of our solutions and harm our business. We currently utilize a single third-party data center hosting facility located in Boston, Massachusetts to deliver our solutions. All of our data storage and analytics are conducted on, and the video ad campaigns we deliver are processed through, servers in this facility. We also rely on bandwidth providers, internet service providers and mobile networks to deliver video ads. In addition, we utilize a third party data center hosting facility located in New York, New York for corporate information technology use. Any damage to, or failure of, the systems of our third-party data centers or our other third-party providers could result in interruptions to the availability or functionality of our service. If for any reason our arrangements with our data centers or third-party providers are terminated, we could experience additional expense in arranging for new facilities, technology services and support. In addition, the failure of our data centers or any other third-party providers to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions in the availability or functionality of our solutions or impede our ability to scale our operations. The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, a decision to close our third-party data centers or the facilities of any third-party provider without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of our solutions. While we have disaster recovery arrangements in place, they have not been tested under actual disasters or similar events and may not effectively permit us to continue to provide our solutions in the event of any problems with respect to our data centers or any other third-party facilities. To date, we have not experienced these types of events, but we cannot provide any assurances that they will not occur in the future. If any such event were to occur to our business, the delivery of our solutions could be impaired and our business harmed. Our net operating loss carryforwards may expire unutilized or underutilized, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income. We may be limited in the portion of net operating loss carryforwards that we can use in the future to offset taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $84.7 million of U.S. federal and state net operating 23 Table of Contents loss carryforwards, or NOLs, which expire in various years beginning in 2026. A lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to utilize these NOLs. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOLs to offset future taxable income. We believe that we experienced an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code in prior years that may limit our ability to utilize a portion of the NOLs in the future. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership, including future offerings, as well as other changes that may be outside of our control, could result in additional ownership changes under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Our NOLs may also be impaired under similar provisions of state law. We have recorded a full valuation allowance related to our NOLs and other net deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of the ultimate realization of the future benefits of those assets. Our NOLs may expire unutilized or underutilized, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income. Risks Relating to Our Data Collection and Intellectual Property Our ability to generate revenue depends on our ability to collect and use significant amounts of data to deliver video ads, and any limitations on the collection and use of this data could significantly diminish the value of our solutions. Our ability to optimize the placement and scheduling of video advertisements for our advertisers and to grow our revenue depends on our ability to successfully leverage data that we collect from our advertisers, publishers, and third parties such as data providers. Our ability to successfully leverage such data, in turn, depends on our ability to collect and obtain rights to utilize such data. When we deliver a video ad, we are often able to collect anonymous information about the placement of the video ad and the interaction of the user with the video ad. We currently employ cookies to conduct online video ad campaigns. Cookies are small files of non-personalized information placed on an internet consumer’s computer. The cookies are used to collect information related to the consumer, such as demographic information and history of the consumer’s interactions with our advertisers’ and our publishers’ websites, and any video ads we deliver. We also employ cookies and mobile tracking technology to deliver reporting on ads on web publishers’ sites and in mobile applications. We may also be able to collect information about the user’s location. As we collect and aggregate this data provided by billions of video ad impressions, we analyze it in order to optimize the placement and delivery of video ads across the advertising inventory provided to us by publishers. For example, we may use the collected information to limit the number of times a specific video ad is presented to the user, to provide a video ad to only certain types of users, or to provide a report to an advertiser or publisher regarding the performance of an advertising campaign or inventory, respectively. Risks Related to Data Collected from Consumers We participate in industry self-regulatory programs under which, in addition to other compliance obligations, we provide consumers with notice about our use of cookies and our collection and use of data in connection with the delivery of targeted advertising. In addition, consumers can currently opt out of the placement or use of our cookies for online targeted advertising purposes by either deleting or disabling cookies on their browsers, visiting websites that allow consumers to place an opt-out cookie on their browsers, which instructs advertisers and their service providers not to use certain data about the consumer’s online activity for the delivery of targeted advertising, or by downloading browser plug-ins and other tools that can be set to: (1) identify cookies and other tracking technologies used on websites; (2) prevent websites from placing third-party cookies and other tracking technologies on the consumer’s browser; or (3) block the delivery of online advertisements on websites and applications. If consumer sentiment regarding privacy issues or the development and deployment of new browser solutions or other mechanisms that limit the use of cookies or other tracking technologies or data collected through use of such technologies results in a material increase in the number of consumers who choose to opt out or are otherwise using browsers where they need to, and fail to, configure the browser to accept cookies, our ability to collect valuable and actionable data would be impaired. Consumers may become increasingly resistant to the collection, use, and sharing of information used to deliver targeted advertising and may take steps to prevent such collection and use of information. Consumers may elect not to allow data collection, use, or sharing for targeted advertising for a number of reasons, such as privacy concerns or pricing mechanisms that may charge the user based upon the amount or types of data consumed on the device. Consumers may also elect to opt out of receiving targeted advertising specifically from our solutions. Risks Related to Data Collected from Publishers and Advertisers In order to effectively operate our video advertising campaigns, we collect data from advertisers, publishers, and other third parties. If we are not able to obtain sufficient rights to data from these third parties, we may not be able to utilize data in our solutions. Although our arrangements with advertisers and publishers generally permit us to collect non-personally identifiable and aggregate data from advertising campaigns, some of our advertisers and publishers do not allow us to collect some or all of this data or limit our use of this data, and future advertisers and publishers may do so in the future. For example, publishers may not agree to permit us to place our data collection tags on their sites or agree to provide us with the data generated by interactions with the content 24 Table of Contents on their sites. It would be difficult to comply with these requests, and to do so would cause us to spend significant amounts of resources. It could also make it difficult for us to deliver effective advertising campaigns that meet the demands of our advertisers. We and many of our advertisers and publishers voluntarily participate in several trade associations and industry self-regulatory groups that promulgate best practice guidelines or codes of conduct addressing the delivery of promotional content to users, and tracking of users or devices for the purpose of delivering targeted advertising. We could be adversely affected by changes to these guidelines and codes in ways that are inconsistent with our practices or in conflict with the laws and regulations of U.S. or international regulatory authorities. If we are perceived as not operating in accordance with industry best practices or any such guidelines or codes with regard to privacy, our reputation may suffer, we could lose relationships with advertisers or publishers, and we could be subject to proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others as described below. Any limitation on our ability to collect data about user behavior and interaction with content could make it more difficult for us to deliver effective video advertising campaigns that meet the demands of our advertisers. Risks Related to Data Collection Technology Changes in device and software features and new technologies could make it easier for internet consumers to prevent the placement of cookies. In particular, the default settings of consumer devices and software may be set to prevent the placement of cookies unless the consumer actively elects to allow them. For example, Apple Inc.’s Safari browser currently does not accept third-party cookies as a default, and consumers must activate a browser setting to enable cookies to be set. Mozilla Corporation and Microsoft Inc. also have announced plans to adopt similar defaults in future versions of their respective Firefox and Internet Explorer browsers. On February 22, 2012, the Digital Advertising Alliance announced that its members will work to add browser-based header signals to the set of tools by which consumers can express their preferences not to be tracked online. On March 26, 2012, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, issued a report on consumer privacy, which calls for the development and implementation of a persistent Do Not Track mechanism to enable consumers to choose whether to allow the tracking of their online search and browsing activities. Various industry participants have worked to develop and finalize standards relating to a Do Not Track mechanism, and such standards may be implemented and adopted by industry participants at any time. Network carriers, providers of mobile device operating systems, and device manufacturers may also impact our ability to collect data on internet-connected devices. These carriers, operating system providers, and device manufacturers are increasingly promoting features that allow device users to disable some of the functionality of the device or its operating system, which may impair or disable the collection of data on their devices. Any interruptions, failures, or defects in our data collection, mining, analysis, and storage systems could limit our ability to aggregate and analyze user data from our clients’ advertising campaigns. If that happens, we may not be able to optimize the placement of advertising for the benefit of our advertisers, which could make our solutions less valuable, and, as a result, we may lose clients and our revenue may decline. If web, smartphones, tablet and connected TV devices, their operating systems or content distribution channels, including those controlled by our competitors, develop in ways that prevent our advertising from being delivered to their users, our ability to grow our business could be impaired. Our business model depends upon the continued compatibility of our solutions with most internet-connected devices across online, mobile, tablet and connected TV distribution channels, as well as the major operating systems that run on them. The design of these devices and operating systems are controlled by third parties with whom we do not have any formal relationships. These parties frequently introduce new devices, and from time to time they may introduce new operating systems or modify existing ones. In some cases, the parties that control the development of internet-connected devices and operating systems include companies that we regard as our competitors, including some of our most significant competitors. For example, Google Inc. controls the Android operating system and also controls a significant number of mobile devices. If our solutions were unable to work on these devices or operating systems, either because of technological constraints or because a maker of these devices or developer of these operating systems wished to impair our ability to provide video ads on them, our ability to grow our business could be impaired. Our business practices with respect to data could give rise to liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to consumer privacy and data protection. U.S. and foreign governments have enacted, considered, or are considering legislation or regulations that could significantly restrict our ability to collect, augment, analyze, use, and share anonymous data, such as by regulating the level of consumer notice and consent required before a company can employ cookies or other electronic tools to track people online. Federal, state, and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing, and security of data that we collect across our solutions. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, regulations, self-regulatory requirements, policies, and legal obligations relating to privacy and data protection. However, it is possible that these requirements may be interpreted and applied in a manner 25 Table of Contents that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. As we expand our operations globally, compliance with regulations that differ from country to country may also impose substantial compliance burdens on our business. In particular, the European Union has traditionally taken a broader view as to what is considered personal information and has imposed greater obligations under data privacy laws and regulations. In addition, individual EU member countries have had discretion with respect to their interpretation and implementation of the regulations, which has resulted in variation of privacy standards from country to country. We may be subject to foreign laws regulating online and mobile advertising even in jurisdictions where we do not have any physical presence to the extent a digital media content provider has advertising inventory that we manage or to the extent that we collect and use data from consumers in those jurisdictions. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with U.S. federal, state, or international laws, including laws and regulations regulating privacy, data security, or consumer protection, or other policies, self-regulatory requirements or legal obligations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others. We are aware of several ongoing lawsuits filed against companies in our industry alleging various violations of privacy- or data security-related laws. Our subsidiary ScanScout was in the past subject to an FTC inquiry regarding its use of “Flash” cookies. As a result of our acquisition of ScanScout in December 2010, we are now subject to an FTC order regarding certain notice, disclosure and choice obligations regarding the use of cookies and our collection and use of data in connection with the delivery of targeted advertising. See “Item 1 — Business — Government Regulation; Industry Alliances” for a more complete description of this order. In addition, ScanScout was subject to a putative class action legal proceeding regarding its use of “Flash” cookies, which was settled in March 2012 and dismissed with prejudice. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is evolving, and various government and consumer agencies and public advocacy groups have called for new regulation and changes in industry practices, including some directed at the advertising industry in particular. It is possible that new laws and regulations will be adopted in the United States and internationally, or existing laws and regulations may be interpreted in new ways that would affect our business particularly with regard to collection or use of data to target ads to consumers. A number of U.S. state and federal bills have been proposed and are under consideration that contain provisions that would regulate how companies, such as ours, can use cookies and other tracking technologies to collect and use information about individuals and their online behaviors. At least one such bill presently has been proposed in the U.S. Congress. The U.S. government, including the FTC and the Department of Commerce, has announced that it is reviewing the need for greater regulation of the collection of consumer information, including regulation aimed at restricting some targeted advertising practices. The FTC has also adopted revisions to its rules implementing the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, or COPPA Rules, that became effective July 1, 2013, that broaden the applicability of the COPPA Rules, including the types of information that would be subject to these regulations, and could effectively limit the information that we or our advertisers collect and use through certain online publishers and the content of video ads our advertisers may display. Many European Union member states are in the process of or have already enacted legislation to implement the European Union ePrivacy Directive (Directive 2009/136/EC amending Directive 2009/136/CE) requiring advertisers to obtain specific types of notice and consent from individuals before using cookies or other technologies to track individuals and their online behavior and deliver targeted advertisements. In particular, to comply with certain of these requirements, the use of cookies or other similar technologies may require the user’s affirmative, opt-in consent. Further, the European Commission has proposed a General Data Protection Regulation that may strengthen EU laws regarding notice and consent for tracking technology. The EU proposals, if implemented, may result in a greater compliance burden with respect to collecting information about persons in Europe. Complying with any new regulatory requirements could force us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner that could compromise our ability to effectively pursue our growth strategy. Any proceeding or action brought against us by a governmental entity or others relating to noncompliance with U.S federal, state, or international laws, self-regulatory requirements, policies, or other legal obligations relating to privacy or data protection could hurt our reputation, force us to spend significant amounts in defense of these proceedings, distract our management, increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the demand for our solutions, and ultimately result in the imposition of monetary liability. We may also be contractually liable to indemnify and hold harmless our advertisers and publishers from the costs or consequences of noncompliance with privacy-related laws, regulations, self-regulatory requirements or other legal obligations, or inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure of data that we store or handle as part of providing our solutions. Changes in global privacy-related laws and regulations and self-regulatory regimes may also impact our advertisers and publishers and adversely affect the demand for our solutions or otherwise harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For instance, privacy laws or regulations could require digital media content providers to take additional measures to facilitate consumer privacy preferences, in which case we will be reliant upon them to do so. In addition, digital media content providers could become subject to regulatory restrictions that would require them to limit or cease altogether the collection and/or use of data by third parties such as ourselves. For example, one potential form of restriction on the use of cookies would allow the website 26 Table of Contents that the consumer has elected to visit, a first-party website, to continue to place cookies on the user’s browser or device without explicit consent, but would require the user’s explicit consent for a third party to place its cookies on the user’s browser or device. Additionally, the March 2012 FTC staff report recommends that websites offer consumers a choice about whether the owner of the website can use third parties like us to track the activity for marketing purposes (e.g., delivery of targeted advertising). We are a third party in this context, and therefore currently depend on the ability to place our cookies on browsers and devices of users that visit the websites of our digital media content providers and to track devices for the purpose of ad delivery reporting on mobile devices, and if we were restricted from doing so because of compliance with laws or regulatory and industry best practices or recommendations by digital media content providers, our ability to gather the data on which we rely would be impaired. Further, we could be placed at a competitive disadvantage to large competitors such as Google, Facebook, Microsoft, AOL, and Yahoo! who have heavily trafficked, first-party properties that would continue to have greater ability to collect visitor data and use such data for marketing purposes. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could negatively impact our business. We regard the protection of our intellectual property, which includes trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, domain names, one patent and several patent applications, as critical to our success. We strive to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions. We generally enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with parties, with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our proprietary information. However, we may not be successful in executing these agreements with every party who has access to our confidential information or contributes to the development of our intellectual property. Those agreements that we do execute may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. These contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, or deter independent development of similar intellectual property by others. Breaches of the security of our solutions, databases or other resources could expose us to a risk of loss or unauthorized disclosure of information collected, stored, or transmitted for or on behalf of advertisers or publishers, or of cookies, data stored in cookies, other user information, or other proprietary or confidential information. We currently own two issued U.S. patents and one granted European patent, which we registered in France, Germany and Great Britain. Additionally, we currently own seven pending U.S. patent applications that we are currently prosecuting with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, although there can be no assurance that any of these patent applications will ultimately be issued a patent. We also register certain domain names, trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. We also rely upon common law protection for certain marks, such as “Tremor Video.” Any of our patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. While we have a patent and certain patent applications pending, we may be unable to obtain patent protection for the technology covered in our patent applications. In addition, our existing patents and any patents that may be issued in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Our competitors and others could attempt to capitalize on our brand recognition by using domain names or business names similar to ours. Domain names similar to ours have been registered in the United States and elsewhere. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring or using domain names and other trademarks that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of our brands, trademarks or service marks. Effective trade secret, copyright, trademark, domain name and patent protection are expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and the costs of defending our rights. We may be required to protect our intellectual property in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every location. We may, over time, increase our investment in protecting our intellectual property through additional patent filings that could be expensive and time-consuming. Additionally, in the United States, the central provisions of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or AIA, became effective recently. Among other things, this law switched U.S. patent rights from the former “first-to-invent” system to a “first inventor-to-file” system. This may result in inventors and companies having to file patent applications more frequently to preserve rights in their inventions. This may favor larger competitors that have the resources to file more patent applications. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property may not be adequate to prevent their misappropriation or misuse. Further, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Our competitors may also independently develop similar technology. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our solutions or technology are hosted or available. Further, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. The laws in the United States and elsewhere change rapidly, and any future changes could adversely affect us and our intellectual property. Our failure to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could result in competitors offering solutions that incorporate our most technologically advanced features, which could seriously reduce demand for our solutions. In addition, we may in the future find it necessary or appropriate to initiate infringement claims or litigation, whether to protect our intellectual property or 27 Table of Contents to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the intellectual property rights of others. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time-consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and managerial personnel, which could harm our business, whether or not such litigation results in a determination that is unfavorable to us. In addition, litigation is inherently uncertain. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or determined that our solutions or another aspect of our business infringes the intellectual property rights of others. The online advertising industry is characterized by the existence of large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Companies in this industry are often required to defend against litigation claims that are based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Our success depends, in part, upon non-infringement of intellectual property rights owned by others and being able to resolve claims of intellectual property infringement or misappropriation without major financial expenditures or adverse consequences. We currently face, and expect to face in the future, claims by third parties that we infringe upon or misappropriate their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon or to have misappropriated such rights. Such claims may be made by competitors or other parties. We cannot assure you that we are not infringing or violating any third-party intellectual property rights. From time to time, we or our clients may be subject to legal proceedings relating to our solutions or underlying technology and the intellectual property rights of others, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business. As a result of disclosure of information in filings required of a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing patents or infringing or misappropriating other intellectual property rights have any merit, these claims are time-consuming and costly to evaluate and defend, and can impose a significant burden on management and employees. The outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain, and we may receive unfavorable interim or preliminary rulings in the course of litigation. There can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. We may decide to settle lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. Claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights could: · subject us to significant liabilities for monetary damages, which may be tripled in certain instances, and the attorney’s fees of others; · prohibit us from developing, commercializing or continuing to provide some or all of our solutions unless we obtain licenses from, and pay royalties to, the holders of the patents or other intellectual property rights, which may not be available on commercially favorable terms, or at all; · subject us to indemnification obligations or obligations to refund fees to, and adversely affect our relationships with, our current or future advertisers, agencies, and publishers; · result in injunctive relief against us, or otherwise result in delays or stoppages in providing all or certain aspects of our solutions; · cause advertisers, agencies, or publishers to avoid working with us; · divert the attention and resources of management and technical personnel; and · require technology or branding changes to our solutions that would cause us to incur substantial cost and that we may be unable to execute effectively or at all. In addition, we may be exposed to claims that the content contained in ad campaigns violates the intellectual property or other rights of third parties. Such claims could be made directly against us or against the publishers from whom we purchase ad inventory. Generally, under our agreements with publishers, we are required to indemnify the publisher against any such claim with respect to an ad we served. We attempt to mitigate this exposure by generally requiring our advertisers and/or ad agencies to indemnify us for any damages from any such claims. There can be no assurance, however, that our advertisers will have the ability to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us, and pursuing any claims for indemnification may be costly or unsuccessful. As a result, we may be 28 Table of Contents required to satisfy our indemnification obligations to our publishers or claims against us with our assets. This result could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. We use open source software in our solutions that may subject our technology to general release or require us to re-engineer our solutions, which may cause harm to our business. Our technology incorporates or is distributed with software or data licensed from third parties, including some software distributed under so-called “open source” licenses, which we use without charge. Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software, and to make our proprietary software available under open source licenses, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in certain manners. Although we monitor our use of open source software, we cannot be sure that all open source software is reviewed prior to use in our proprietary software, that our programmers have not incorporated open source software into our proprietary software, or that they will not do so in the future. Additionally, the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts. There is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide our solutions to our clients. In addition, the terms of open source software licenses may require us to provide software that we develop, using such open source software, to others on unfavorable license terms. As a result of our current or future use of open source software, we may face claims or litigation, be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our technology, discontinue sales in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. We rely on data, other technology, and intellectual property licensed from other parties, the failure or loss of which could increase our costs and delay or prevent the delivery of our solutions. We utilize various types of data, other technology, and intellectual property licensed from unaffiliated third parties in order to provide certain elements of our solutions. Any errors or defects in any third-party data or other technology could result in errors in our solutions that could harm our business. In addition, licensed technology, data, and intellectual property may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of these on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could result in delays in producing or delivering our solutions until equivalent data, other technology, or intellectual property is identified and integrated, which delays could harm our business. In this situation we would be required to either redesign our solutions to function with technology, data or intellectual property available from other parties or to develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future solutions. If we fail to maintain or renegotiate any of these technology or intellectual property licenses, we could face significant delays and diversion of resources in attempting to develop similar or replacement technology, or to license and integrate a functional equivalent of the technology or intellectual property. The occurrence of any of these events may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Being a Public Company If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal and disclosure controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements and other disclosures on a timely basis could be impaired. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. Commencing as of the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2014, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm potentially to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As an “emerging growth company” under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups, or JOBS Act, we have availed ourselves in this annual report, and we expect to avail ourselves in future filings, of the exemption from the requirement that our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting; however, we may no longer avail ourselves of this exemption when we cease to be an “emerging growth company.” This will require that we incur substantial additional professional fees and internal costs to expand our accounting and finance functions and that we expend significant management efforts. Prior to becoming a public company, we were never required to test our internal controls within a specified period, and, as a result, we may experience difficulty in meeting these reporting requirements in a timely manner. Moreover, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. 29 Table of Contents We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls over financial reporting that need improvement. Our internal controls over financial reporting will not prevent or detect all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud will be detected. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, or if we are unable to maintain proper and effective disclosure controls and procedures or proper and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, we may not be able to produce timely and accurate financial statements and other disclosures, and we may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. If that were to happen, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Risks associated with being a public company. As a public company, and particularly after we cease to be an “emerging growth company,” we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NYSE impose numerous requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Also, the Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to compliance with these laws and regulations. These requirements have increased and will continue to increase our legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs and have made and will continue to make some activities more time consuming and costly. For example, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or our board committees or as executive officers. As an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act we are permitted to, and intend to, rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements. We are an “emerging growth company” and, for as long as we continue to be an “emerging growth company,” we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies including, but not limited to, not being required to have our independent registered public accounting firm audit our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and not being required to hold a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation or obtain stockholder approval of “golden parachute” payments. We could be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although, if we have more than $1.0 billion in annual revenue, if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of June 30 of any year, or we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three year period before the end of that five-year period, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of December 31st following such occurrence. Investors may find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions, in which case the price of our common stock may suffer or there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Since shares of our common stock were sold in our IPO in June 2013 at a price of $10.00 per share, our stock price has ranged from an intraday low of $3.59 to an intraday high of $11.09 through March 21, 2014. In addition, the trading prices of the securities of technology companies in general have been highly volatile, and the volatility in market price and trading volume of securities is often unrelated or disproportionate to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. In addition to the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, factors affecting the market price of our common stock include: · price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, or in the market for the stock of comparable companies, from time to time; · adverse changes in the regulatory environment; · actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or the results of our competitors; 30 Table of Contents · changes in the market perception of online video advertising platforms generally or in the effectiveness of our solutions in particular; · announcements of technological innovations, new solutions, acquisitions, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; · issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations for our or our competitors’ stock; · litigation involving us; · changes in general economic, industry and market conditions and trends; · recruitment or departure of key personnel; and · the other factors described in this section of the report titled “Risk Factors.” In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action or derivative litigation has often been brought against that company and its officers and directors. We are currently subject to a putative class action lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, which alleges certain misrepresentations by us in connection with our initial public offering concerning our business and prospects. Because of the potential volatility of our stock price, we may become the target of additional securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. The pending class action litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. In November 2013, a putative class action lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against us, our directors, and certain of our executive officers. The lawsuit alleges certain misrepresentations by us in connection with our initial public offering concerning our business and prospects. The lawsuit seeks unspecified damages. On February 7, 2014, the Court entered an order appointing lead plaintiff and lead counsel. On March 3, 2014, the Court entered an order requiring that lead plaintiff file an amended complaint on or before April 1, 2014. We intend to vigorously defend against these claims and to seek dismissal of the amended complaint. Due to the early stage of these proceedings, we cannot predict the likely outcome of the lawsuit, and an adverse result could have a material effect on our financial statements. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us because of defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that they might occur, could reduce the price that our common stock might otherwise attain and may dilute your voting power and your ownership interest in us. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that a substantial number of shares could be sold, could reduce the market price of our common stock. As of March 21, 2014, we had 50,341,663 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, the shares subject to outstanding options and warrants, for which 4,507,658 shares and 39,824 shares, respectively, were exercisable as of December 31, 2013 will become available for sale immediately upon the exercise of such options or warrants. Moreover, as of December 24, 2013, the date of the expiration of our IPO lockup, holders of an aggregate of approximately 34,276,207 shares of our common stock, or 68.7%, of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have also registered for offer and sale all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock-based compensation plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. Sales of common stock by existing stockholders in the public market, the availability of these shares for sale, our issuance of securities or the perception that any of these events might occur could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the sale of these securities could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional stock. In addition, in the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into common stock in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation settlement, and employee arrangements or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause our stock price to decline. Concentration of ownership of our common stock among our existing executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. 31 Table of Contents Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders and their respective affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2013. These persons, acting together, are able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. If securities or industry analysts do not publish, or cease publishing, research or reports about us, our business or our market, if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, or if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts, the price of our stock and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If no or few analysts commence coverage of us, the trading price of our stock would likely decrease. Even if we do obtain analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts covering our business issues an adverse opinion of our company because we fail to meet their expectations or otherwise, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover our stock, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as provisions of Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our board of directors or management and, therefore, depress the price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock or transactions that our stockholders might otherwise deem to be in their best interests. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our board of directors or our management. Therefore, these provisions could adversely affect the price of our stock. Our corporate governance documents include provisions: · establishing a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time; · providing that directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause; · preventing the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; · requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; · permitting the board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with any rights, preferences and privileges as they may designate; · limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; · providing that vacancies may be filled by remaining directors; · preventing cumulative voting; and · providing for a supermajority requirement to amend our bylaws. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 