Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have limited operating experience and a history of net losses, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have a limited operating history and have focused primarily on research and development, clinical trials, product engineering, expanding our manufacturing capabilities, and building a sales force to market our EpiFix® and AmnioFix® products. We have incurred significant net losses over the last few years, including net losses of approximately $7.7 million in 2012, $10.2 million in 2011, and $11.4 million in 2010. At December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $69.7 million. We will continue to incur significant expenses for the foreseeable future as we expand our sales and marketing, research and development, and clinical activities. We may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve or sustain profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. Our business and prospects must be evaluated in light of the expenses, delays, uncertainties and complications typically encountered by businesses in our stage of development, many of which may be beyond our control. These include, but are not limited to, lack of sufficient capital, unanticipated problems, delays or expenses relating to product development, governmental approvals, and licensing and marketing activities, competition, technological changes and uncertain market acceptance. In addition, if we are unable to manage growth effectively, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully address any or all of these risks, and the failure to adequately do so could cause our business, results of operations, and financial condition to suffer. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. We are subject to the following factors, among others, that may negatively affect our operating results: · The announcement or introduction of new products by our competitors; · Failure of government and private health plans to adequately and timely reimburse the users of our products; · Our ability to upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure to accommodate growth; · Our ability to attract and retain key personnel in a timely and cost effective manner; · The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; · Regulation by federal, state or local governments; and 20 · General economic conditions as well as economic conditions specific to the healthcare industry. As a result of our limited operating history, limited resources, and the nature of the markets in which we compete, it is extremely difficult for us to forecast accurately. We have based our current and future expense levels largely on our investment plans and estimates of future events although certain of our expense levels are, to a large extent, fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenue relative to our planned expenditures would have an immediate adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, the Company may from time to time make certain pricing, service or marketing decisions that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to the foregoing factors, our revenue and operating results are and will remain difficult to forecast. We are in a highly competitive field and face competition from large, well-established, tissue processors, medical device manufacturers as well as new market entrants. Our business is in a very competitive and evolving field. Competition from other tissue processors, medical device companies and from research and academic institutions is intense, expected to increase, subject to rapid change, and could be significantly affected by new product introductions. Many of our products have short regulatory timeframes and our competitors may be able to develop competitive products that are as or more effective than our products or that render our products and technologies less competitive or obsolete. Many of our competitors have competitive advantages over us, including some or all of the following: · Significantly greater name recognition; · Established relations with surgeons, hospitals, other healthcare providers and third party payers; · Large and established sales and distribution networks in the United States and/or in international markets; · Greater experience in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals and/or clearances from the United States Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory agencies; · Greater financial, managerial and other resources for product research and development, sales and marketing efforts and protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights. The presence of this competition in our market may lead to pricing pressure, which would make it more difficult to sell our products at a price that will make us profitable or prevent us from selling our products at all. Our success will depend on our ability to perfect and protect our intellectual property rights related to our technologies as well as to develop new technologies and new applications for our technologies. Our failure to compete effectively would have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Our EpiFix® and AmnioFix® products are dependent on the availability of sufficient quantities of placental tissue from human donors, and any disruption in supply could adversely affect our business. The success of our human tissue products depends upon, among other factors, the availability of sufficient quantities of placental tissue from human donors. The availability of donated placental tissue could be adversely impacted by regulatory changes, public opinion of the donor process as well as our own reputation in the industry. Any disruption in the supply of donated human tissue could restrict our growth and could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. We cannot be sure that the supply of human tissue will continue to be available at current levels or will be sufficient to meet our future needs. Our EpiFix® and AmnioFix® products are derived from human tissue and therefore have the potential for disease transmission. The utilization of human tissue creates the potential for transmission of communicable disease, including, but not limited to, human immunodeficiency virus (“HIV”), viral hepatitis, syphilis and other viral, fungal or bacterial pathogens. We are required to comply with federal and state regulations intended to prevent communicable disease transmission. Although we maintain strict quality controls over the procurement and processing of our tissue, there is no assurance that these quality controls will be adequate. In addition, negative publicity concerning disease transmission from other companies’ improperly processed donated tissue could have a negative impact on the demand for our EpiFix® and AmnioFix® products. We depend on key personnel. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel, including sales, managerial and technical personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find and attract additional qualified employees to support our expected growth or retain any such personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel or the loss of services of our key personnel may have a material and adverse effect on our business, operations and results of operations. We are dependent on our relationships with distributors and independent sales representatives to generate revenue. We derive material revenues through our relationships with distributors and independent sales representatives. If such relationships were terminated for any reason, it could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and profits. The Company intends to obtain the assistance of additional distributors and independent sales representatives to continue its sales growth. We may not be able to find additional distributors and independent sales representatives who will agree to market and/or distribute our products on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to establish new distribution and independent sales representative relationships or renew current distribution and sales agency agreements on commercially acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are investing significant capital in expanding our sales force, and there can be no assurance that these efforts will result in significant increases in sales. We are engaged in a major initiative to build and further expand our sales and marketing capabilities. As a result, we are investing in a direct sales force to allow us to reach new customers. The incurrence of these expenses impacts our operating results, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in significantly expanding the sales of our products. 22 A significant portion of our revenues come from a limited number of accounts . Three customers accounted for approximately 68% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. We provide products to Government accounts, including the Veteran’s Administration, through a distributor that has a Federal Supply Schedule Contract that recently was extended through January 2018. These sales represented 40% of our revenue in 2012. Our agreement with the distributor has an initial term of three years ending in April 2015. The agreement has the potential of being extended for two additional one year terms. We believe the risk related to that concentration of revenue from a single distributor is mitigated by the fact that our own sales force calls on and has a personal relationship with the individual Veteran’s Administration facilities that represent most of that revenue. Therefore, we believe we eventually could regain much of the Veteran’s Administration business, even if our relationship with our distributor were terminated. Nevertheless, if our agreement with our distributor were terminated prematurely or if the distributor were for any reason unable to service the Government market, there could be a disruption of our Government accounts business that could materially and adversely affect our business, revenues and results of operations. Another of our distributors represented 21% of total revenue in 2012. While we believe our relationship with this distributor is good, if this relationship were terminated for any reason, including non-renewal of our contract upon expiration of the current term in May 2013, our business, revenues and results of operations could suffer. Our revenues depend on adequate reimbursement from public and private insurers and health systems. Our success depends on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of our products and related treatments will be available from third party payers, such as public and private insurers and health systems. Government and other third-party payers attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new products. Therefore, significant uncertainty usually exists as to the reimbursement status of new healthcare products. A significant number of public and private insurers and health systems currently do not provide reimbursement for our products. If we are not successful in obtaining adequate reimbursement for our products from these third party payers, the market’s acceptance of our products could be adversely affected. Inadequate reimbursement levels also likely would create downward price pressure on our products. Even if we do succeed in obtaining widespread reimbursement for our products, future changes in reimbursement policies could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruption of our manufacturing and processing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations are dependent upon the continued operation of our manufacturing and processing facilities. Risks that could impact our ability to use these facilities include the occurrence of natural and other disasters, and the need to comply with the requirements of directives from government agencies, including the FDA. The unavailability of our manufacturing and processing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations during the period of such unavailability. To be commercially successful, we must convince physicians that our products are safe and effective alternatives to existing treatments and that our products should be used in their procedures. We believe physicians will only adopt our products if they determine, based on experience, clinical data and published peer reviewed journal articles, that the use of our products in a particular procedure is a favorable alternative to conventional methods. Physicians may be slow to change their medical treatment practices for the following reasons, among others: · Their lack of experience with prior procedures in the field using our products; · Lack of evidence supporting additional patient benefits and our products over conventional methods; 23 · Perceived liability risks generally associated with the use of new products and procedures; · Limited availability of reimbursement from third party payers; and · The time that must be dedicated to training. In addition, we believe recommendations for and support of our products by influential physicians are essential for market acceptance and adoption. If we do not receive this support or if we are unable to demonstrate favorable long-term clinical data, physicians and hospitals may not use our products, which would significantly reduce our ability to achieve expected revenue and would prevent us from becoming profitable. We will need to expand our organization, and we may be unable to manage rapid growth effectively. Our failure to manage growth effectively could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that a period of significant expansion will be required to penetrate and service the market for our existing and anticipated future products and to continue to develop new products. This expansion will place a significant strain on management, operational and financial resources. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we must both modify our existing operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and implement new systems, procedures and controls. We must also expand our finance, administrative, and operations staff. Management may be unable to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage necessary personnel or to identify, manage and exploit existing and potential strategic relationships and market opportunities. Additional financing may be necessary for implementation of our growth strategy. We may require additional debt and/or equity financing to pursue our growth strategy. Given our limited operating history and history of net losses, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining additional financing. Lack of additional funding could force us to curtail substantially our growth plans or cease operations. Furthermore, our issuance of any additional securities would dilute the ownership of existing shareholders and may substantially reduce the price of our common stock. Furthermore, debt financing, if available, will require the payment of interest and may involve restrictive covenants that could impose limitations upon our operating flexibility. Our failure to successfully obtain additional future funding may jeopardize our ability to expand our business and operations. We face the risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacturing, processing and marketing of medical devices and human tissue products. We may be subject to such claims if our products cause, or appear to have caused, an injury. Claims may be made by patients, healthcare providers or others selling our products. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of merit, could be costly, divert management attention and result in adverse publicity, which could result in the withdrawal of, or reduced acceptance of, our products in the market. Although we have product liability insurance that we believe is adequate, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations and we may not be able to maintain this insurance. If we are unable to maintain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims, we could be exposed to significant liabilities, which may harm our business. A product liability claim or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could result in significant costs and significant harm to our business. 24 We may implement a product recall or voluntary market withdrawal due to product defects, which could significantly increase our costs, damage our reputation and disrupt our business. The manufacturing, marketing and processing of our tissue products and medical devices involves an inherent risk that our products may be defective or that our products or processes do not meet applicable quality standards and requirements. In that event, we may voluntarily implement a recall or market withdrawal or may be required to do so by a regulatory authority. A recall or market withdrawal of one of our products would be costly and would divert management resources. A recall or withdrawal of one of our products, or a similar product manufactured or processed by another manufacturer, also could impair sales of our products as a result of confusion concerning the scope of the recall or withdrawal, or as a result of the damage to our reputation for quality and safety. We may not be successful in commercializing all of our technologies for our medical device products, such as HydroFix® and CollaFix™. We have had only limited sales of our HydroFix® products. We have invested substantial time and resources in developing various additional products using our HydroFix® and CollaFixTM technologies. Further commercialization of these technologies will require additional development, clinical evaluation, regulatory clearance or approval, significant marketing efforts and substantial additional investment before they can provide us with any revenue. Despite our efforts, any such products may not become commercially successful products for a number of reasons, including: · We may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approvals for such products, or the approved indication may be narrower than we seek; · Such products may not prove to be safe and effective in preclinical or clinical trials; · Physicians or hospitals may not receive any reimbursement from third party payers, or the level of reimbursement may be insufficient to support widespread adoption of such products; · We may experience delays in our development programs; · Any products that are approved may not be accepted in the marketplace by physicians or patients; · We may not be able to manufacture any such products in commercial quantities or at an acceptable cost; and · Rapid technological change may make such products obsolete. Our international business and prospects could be adversely impacted by risks inherent in international markets. Sales to customers outside the United States subject us to inherent risks in the economic, political, legal and business environments in the foreign countries in which we do business, including the following: · Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · Regulatory, product approval and reimbursement requirements; · Tariffs and other trade barriers; · Greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; · Difficulties and costs of managing foreign distributors; 25 · Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · Burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; · The impact of recessions in economies outside the U.S.; · Political and economic instability; and · U.S. Export regulatory restrictions. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain and may be inadequate, which would have a material and adverse effect on us. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology, including our licensed technology. These legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. In addition, our pending patent applications include claims to material aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents. The patent application process can be time consuming and expensive. We cannot ensure that any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents. Competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes that are comparable or even superior to ours. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, including entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with some of our officers, employees, consultants and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The failure to obtain and maintain patents and/or protect our intellectual property rights could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Whether a patent is valid is a complex matter of science and law, and therefore we cannot be certain that, if challenged, our patents would be upheld. If one or more of those patents are invalidated, that could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we might otherwise have had. In the event a competitor infringes upon our licensed or pending patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights may be costly, uncertain, difficult and time consuming. Even if successful, litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights could be expensive and time consuming and could divert our management’s attention. The prosecution and enforcement of patents licensed to us by third parties are not within our control, and without these technologies, our product may not be successful and our business would be harmed if the patents were infringed or misappropriated without action by such third parties. We have obtained licenses from third parties for patents and patent application rights related to our HydroFix® and CollaFix™ technologies, allowing us to use intellectual property rights owned by or licensed to these third parties. We do not control the maintenance, prosecution, enforcement or strategy for many of these patents or patent application rights and as such are dependent in part on the owners of the intellectual property rights to maintain their viability. Their failure to do so could significantly impair our ability to exploit those technologies. 26 We may become subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from developing our products, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages. Third parties could assert that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights. Whether a product infringes a patent or other intellectual property involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of others. Because patent applications may take years to issue, there also may be applications now pending of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products or processes infringe. There also may be existing patents or pending patent applications of which we are unaware that our products or processes may inadvertently infringe. Any infringement claim could cause us to incur significant costs, place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents in such claim were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe, we could be prohibited from selling any product that is found to infringe unless we could obtain licenses to use the technology covered by the patent or other intellectual property or are able to design around the patent or other intellectual property. We may be unable to obtain such a license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. A court could also order us to pay compensatory damages for such infringement, plus prejudgment interest and could, in addition, treble the compensatory damages and award attorney fees. These damages could be substantial and could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. A court also could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us and our customers from making, using, or selling products, and could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Depending on the nature of the relief ordered by the court, we could become liable for additional damages to third parties. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees, or our independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of others. Some of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies. We may also hire additional employees who are currently employed at other medical device companies, including our competitors. Additionally, consultants or other independent agents with which we may contract may be or have been in a contractual arrangement with one or more of our competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or independent contractors have used or disclosed any party’s trade secrets or other proprietary information. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail to defend such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to market existing or new products, which could severely harm our business. Our NDGA License Agreement for our CollaFix™ technology could be terminated. Under our license agreement with Shriners’ Hospitals for Children and University of South Florida Research Foundation dated January 29, 2007, it is possible for the licensor to terminate the agreement if we breach the license agreement and all of our cure rights are exhausted. If our license agreement were to be terminated, it would have a negative impact on our business. 27 Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Products and Other Government Regulations Reclassification of our EpiFix® and AmnioFix® products could make the introduction of new tissue products more expensive and significantly delay the expansion of our tissue product offerings and subject us to additional post-market regulatory requirements Our EpiFix® and AmnioFix® products are derived from human tissue. The FDA has specific regulations governing human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products, or HCT/Ps. An HCT/P is a product containing or consisting of human cells or tissue intended for transplantation into a human patient. HCT/Ps that meet the criteria for regulation solely under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act (so-called “361 HCT/Ps”) are not subject to any premarket clearance or approval requirements and are subject to less stringent post-market regulatory requirements. To be a 361 HCT/P, a product generally must meet all four of the following criteria: · It must be minimally manipulated; · It must be intended for homologous use; · Its manufacture does not involve combination with another article, except for water, crystalloids or a sterilizing, preserving or storage agent; and · It does not have a systemic effect and is not dependent upon the metabolic activity of living cells for its primary function. We believe that our EpiFix® and AmnioFix® products are properly classified as 361 HCT/Ps and not as medical devices, biologics or drugs. However, there can be no assurance that the FDA would agree that this regulatory classification applies to these products and any regulatory reclassification could have adverse consequences for us and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct our business by requiring premarket clearance or approval and compliance with additional post-market regulatory requirements. Additionally, increased regulatory scrutiny within the industry in which we operate could lead to increased regulation of HCT/Ps, including 361 HCT/Ps. We also cannot assure you that the FDA will not impose more stringent definitions with respect to products that qualify as 361 HCT/Ps. Obtaining and maintaining the necessary regulatory approvals for our medical device products are expensive and time-consuming and may impede our ability to exploit our HydroFix® and CollaFix™ technologies. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device from the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside of the United States is costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process generally takes three months to twelve months from submission, depending on whether a Special or traditional 510(k) premarket notification has been submitted, but can take significantly longer. An application for premarket approval, or PMA, must be submitted to the FDA if the device cannot be cleared through the 510(k) clearance process and is not exempt from premarket review by the FDA. The PMA process almost always requires one or more clinical trials and can take one to three years from the date of filing, or longer. In some cases, the FDA has indicated that it will require clinical data as part of the 510(k) process. There is no certainty that any of our contemplated additional medical device products will be cleared by the FDA by means of either a 510(k) notice or a PMA application. Even if the FDA permits us to use the 510(k) clearance process, we cannot assure you that the FDA will not require either supporting data from laboratory tests or studies that we have not conducted, or substantial supporting clinical data. If we are unable to use the 510(k) clearance process for any of our products, are required to provide clinical data or laboratory data that we do not possess to support our 510(k) premarket notifications for any of these products, or otherwise experience delays in obtaining or fail to obtain regulatory clearances, the commercialization of such product will be delayed or prevented, which will adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. It also may result in the loss of potential competitive advantages that we might otherwise attain by bringing our products to market earlier than our competitors. Any of these contingencies could adversely affect our business. 28 Our business is subject to continuing regulatory compliance by the FDA and other authorities, which is costly and or failure to comply could result in negative effects on our business. As discussed above, the FDA has specific regulations governing our tissue-based products, or HCT/Ps. The FDA’s regulation of HCT/Ps includes requirements for registration and listing of products, donor screening and testing, processing and distribution (“Current Good Tissue Practices”), labeling, record keeping and adverse-event reporting, and inspection and enforcement. Medical device products are subject to even more stringent regulation by the FDA. Even if pre-market clearance or approval is obtained, the approval or clearance may place substantial restrictions on the indications for which the product may be marketed or to whom it may be marketed, may require warnings to accompany the product or impose additional restrictions on the sale and/or use of the product. In addition, regulatory approval is subject to continuing compliance with regulatory standards, including the FDA’s quality system regulations. If we fail to comply with the FDA regulations regarding our tissue products or medical devices, FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions and the manufacture of our products or processing of our tissue could be delayed or terminated: · Untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; · Customer notifications for repair, replacement, refunds; · Recall, detention or seizure of our products; · Operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; · Refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products or modified products; · Withdrawing 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals that have already been granted; · Refusal to grant export approval for our products; or It is likely that the FDA’s regulation of our medical device products will continue to evolve in the future. Complying with any such new regulatory requirements may entail significant time delays and expense, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The American Association of Tissue Banks (“AATB”) has issued operating standards for tissue banking. Compliance with these standards is a requirement in order to become a licensed tissue bank. In addition, some states have their own tissue banking regulations. In addition, procurement of certain human organs and tissue for transplantation is subject to the restrictions of the National Organ Transplant Act (“NOTA”), which prohibits the transfer of certain human organs, including skin and related tissue for valuable consideration, but permits the reasonable payment associated with the removal, transportation, implantation, processing, preservation, quality control and storage of human tissue and skin. We reimburse tissue banks, hospitals and physicians for their services associated with the recovery, storage and transportation of donated human tissue. If we were to be found to have violated NOTA’s prohibition on the sale or transfer of human tissue for valuable consideration, we would potentially be subject to criminal enforcement sanctions, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 29 We and our sales representatives, whether employees or independent contractors, must comply with various federal and state anti-kickback, self referral, false claims and similar laws, any breach of which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are subject to scrutiny under various federal anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws are complex, and even minor, inadvertent violations can give rise to claims that the relevant law has been violated. Possible sanctions for violation of these fraud and abuse laws include monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs, workers’ compensation programs and TRICARE (the healthcare system administered by or on behalf of the U.S. Department of Defense for uniformed services beneficiaries, including active duty and their dependents, retirees and their dependents), and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such prohibitions. Certain states have similar fraud and abuse laws, imposing substantial penalties for violations. Any government investigation or a finding of a violation of these laws would likely result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit any knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of an individual or the ordering or recommending of the use of a product or service for which payment may be made by Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs. We have formed a Medical Advisory Board consisting of an aggregate of over 14 physicians and scientists to assist us with scientific research and development and to help us evaluate technologies. We have also entered into consulting agreements and product development agreements with physicians, including some who may order our products after our products are introduced to market. In addition, some of these physicians own our stock, which they purchased in arms’ length transactions on terms identical to those offered to non-physicians, or received stock options from us as consideration for consulting services performed by them. We also may engage additional physicians on a consulting basis and have entered into clinical trial agreements with physicians. While these transactions were structured with the intention of complying with all applicable laws, including state anti-referral laws and other applicable anti-kickback laws, it is possible that regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts may in the future view these transactions as prohibited arrangements that must be restructured or for which we would be subject to other significant civil or criminal penalties. Because our strategy relies on the involvement of physicians who consult with us on the design of our products, we could be materially impacted if regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts interpret our financial relationships with our physician advisors who refer or order our products to be in violation of applicable laws and determine that we would be unable to achieve compliance with such applicable laws. This could harm our reputation and the reputations of our physician advisors. In addition, the cost of noncompliance with these laws could be substantial since we could be subject to monetary fines and civil or criminal penalties, and we could also be excluded from federally funded healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, for non-compliance. The scope and enforcement of all of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. There can be no assurance that federal or state regulatory or enforcement authorities will not investigate or challenge our current or future activities under these laws. Any investigation or challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any state or federal regulatory or enforcement review of us, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time consuming. Additionally, we cannot predict the impact of any changes in these laws, whether these changes are retroactive or will have effect on a going-forward basis only. 30 The implementation of the reporting and disclosure obligations of the Physician Payment Sunshine Act provisions of the Health Care Reform Law could adversely affect our business. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act also includes new reporting and disclosure requirements, commonly referred to as the “Sunshine Act”, for manufacturers of drugs, biological, medical devices and medical supplies with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain physicians and teaching hospitals. Implementation had been delayed pending the issuance of applicable rules by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”). On February 1, 2013, CMS released the final rule to implement the Sunshine Act. The final rule provides that data collection activities begin on August 1, 2013, and first disclosure reports are due by March 31, 2014 for the period August 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013. The final rule implementing the Physician Payment Sunshine Act is complex, ambiguous, and broad in scope, and we are in the process of analyzing its application to our businesses. It is difficult to predict how the new requirements may impact existing relationships among manufacturers, distributors, physicians, and teaching hospitals and the costs of compliance with these new requirements if we determine that they apply to us. We face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform. There have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third party payers to control healthcare costs, and generally, to reform the healthcare system in the United States. There are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or the consequences are not fully understood. These proposals may affect aspects of our business. We also cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they will be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. The market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of many other companies that are in, or are just emerging from, the development stage, has fluctuated over a wide range and it is likely that the price of our common stock will fluctuate in the future. Over the past two fiscal years, the closing price of our common stock, as reported by the OTC Bulletin Board, has fluctuated from a low of $0.76 to a high of $3.85. The market price of our common stock could be impacted by a variety of factors, including: · Fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies or of the markets generally; · Our ability to successfully launch, market and earn significant revenue from our products; · Our ability to obtain additional financing to support our continuing operations; · Disclosure of the details and results of regulatory applications and proceedings; · Changes in government regulation; · Additions or departures of key personnel; · Our investments in research and development or other corporate resources; · Announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products or services by us or our competitors; · Developments in the patents or other proprietary rights owned or licensed by us or our competitors; · The timing of new product introductions; 31 · Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including any restatements of previously reported results; · Our ability to effectively and consistently manufacture our products and avoid costs associated with the recall of defective or potentially defective products; · Our ability and the ability of our distribution partners to market and sell our products; · Changes in distribution channels; and · The ability of our vendors to effectively and timely deliver necessary materials and product components. Further, due to the relatively fixed nature of most of our costs, which primarily include personnel costs as well as facilities costs, any unanticipated shortfall in revenue in any fiscal quarter would have an adverse effect on our results of operations in that quarter. Accordingly, our operating results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of results for future periods and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. These fluctuations could cause the trading price of our stock to be negatively affected. Our quarterly operating results have varied substantially in the past and may vary substantially in the future. In addition, the stock market has been very volatile, particularly on the OTC Bulletin Board where our stock is quoted. This volatility is often not related to the operating performance of companies listed thereon and will probably continue in the foreseeable future. The concentrated common stock ownership by certain of our executive officers and directors will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2012, our directors and executive officers together beneficially owned approximately 16% of our outstanding common stock. This group has significant influence over our management and affairs and overall matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. This concentrated control will limit the ability of other shareholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that some of its shareholders do not view as beneficial. In addition, such concentrated control could discourage others from initiating changes of control. As a result, the market price of our shares could be adversely affected. The exercise of warrants or options or conversion of notes may depress our stock price and may result in dilution to our common stockholders. There are a significant number of outstanding options to purchase our stock, as well as outstanding warrants and notes that are convertible into our common stock. If the market price of our common stock rises above the exercise price of outstanding warrants and options or the conversion price of the outstanding notes, holders of those securities may be likely to exercise their warrants and options or convert their notes and sell the common stock acquired upon exercise or conversion of such securities, as applicable, in the open market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by holders of warrants, options, or notes may depress the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if the holders of outstanding options, warrants, or notes exercise those options or warrants or convert those notes, as applicable, our common stockholders will incur dilution in their relative percentage ownership. As of December 31, 2012, warrants to purchase 3,129,168 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $1.04 per share were outstanding and exercisable; options to purchase 13,614,135 shares of common stock were outstanding, at a weighted average exercise price of $1.42 per share, which 5,236,597 were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of $1.05 per share; the senior secured promissory notes were convertible into 5,313,527 shares of common stock at a weighted average conversion price of $1.00 per share; and the short term earnout liability was convertible into an estimated 1,508,419 shares of common stock at a weighted average conversion price of $3.84 per share. There is also potential further dilution in the future from the long term portion of the earnout liability and from the unvested portion of the contingent warrants. 32 Our common stock is and likely will remain subject to the SEC’s “Penny Stock” rules, which may make its shares more difficult to sell. Because the price of our common stock is currently and may remain less than $5.00 per share, it is expected to be classified as a “penny stock.” The SEC rules regarding penny stocks may have the effect of reducing trading activity in our shares, making it more difficult for investors to sell. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · Make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · Receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · Provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; · Obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed; and · Give bid and offer quotations and broker and salesperson compensation information to the customer orally or in writing before or with the confirmation. These rules make it more difficult for broker-dealers to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities and may result in a lower trading volume of our common stock and lower trading prices. Our common stock may be thinly traded. At times the public market for our common stock has been minimal. We cannot be certain more of a public market for our common stock will continue to develop, or if developed, that it will be sustained. Our common stock will likely be thinly traded compared to larger more widely known companies. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained at any time in the future. If we are unable to develop or sustain a market for our common stock, investors may be unable to sell the common stock they own, and may lose the entire value of their investment. Securities analysts may elect not to report on our common stock or may issue negative reports that adversely affect the stock price. At this time, two securities analysts provide research coverage of our common stock. However, there is no assurance that these analysts will continue to report on our common stock or that additional analysts will initiate reporting on our common stock. Rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and a global settlement reached in 2003 among the SEC, other regulatory agencies, and a number of investment banks led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, many investment banking firms are required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. It may remain difficult for a company such as ours, with a smaller market capitalization, to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. If securities analysts discontinue covering our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect its actual and potential market price. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about our business. If one or more analysts elect to cover us and then downgrade the stock, the stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our shares. 33 We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently expect to use available funds and any future earnings in the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility we may obtain may preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be an investor’s only source of potential gain from our common stock for the foreseeable future. Shareholders may experience significant dilution if future equity offerings are used to fund operations or acquire complementary businesses. If future operations or acquisitions are financed through the issuance of equity securities, shareholders could experience significant dilution. In addition, securities issued in connection with future financing activities or potential acquisitions may have rights and preferences senior to the rights and preferences of our common stock. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm its business. The stock market in general and the stocks of medical device companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies involved. If these fluctuations occur in the future, the market price of our shares could fall regardless of its operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has been brought against that company. If the market price or volume of our shares suffers extreme fluctuations, then we may become involved in this type of litigation which would be expensive and divert management’s attention and resources from managing the business. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to shareholders, which could affect our share price adversely and prevent attempts by shareholders to replace or remove current management Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or its Board of Directors that shareholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions include: · Authorizing the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior common stock shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock; · Restricting persons who may call shareholder meetings; · Electing directors on a staggered basis; and ● Allowing the Board to fill vacancies and to fix the number of directors. 34 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 