ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Associated with Our Business If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall risks or costs when we bid on a contract, we may achieve a lower than anticipated profit or incur a loss on the contract. A portion of our revenues and contract backlog are typically derived from fixed unit price contracts. Fixed unit price contracts require us to perform the contract for a fixed unit price irrespective of our actual costs. As a result, we realize a profit on these contracts only if we successfully estimate our costs and then successfully control actual costs and avoid cost overruns. If our cost estimates for a contract are inaccurate, or if we do not execute the contract within our cost estimates, then cost overruns may cause us to incur losses or cause the contract not to be as profitable as we expected. This, in turn, could negatively affect our cash flow, earnings and financial position. During the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, 4% and 14%, respectively, of our revenue was generated from fixed unit price contracts of which we have not experienced any losses due to cost overruns. The costs incurred and gross profit realized on those contracts can vary, sometimes substantially, from the original projections due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: ● on-site conditions that differ from those assumed in the original bid; ● delays caused by weather conditions; ● contract modifications creating unanticipated costs not covered by change orders; ● changes in availability, proximity and costs of materials, including steel, concrete, aggregate and other construction materials (such as stone, gravel and sand), as well as fuel and lubricants for our equipment; ● availability and skill level of the workers in the geographic location of a project; ● our suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform; ● fraud or theft committed by our employees; ● mechanical problems with our machinery or equipment; ● citations issued by a governmental authority; ● difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or approvals; ● changes in applicable laws and regulations; and ● claims or demands from third parties alleging damages arising from our work or from the project of which our work is part. ● claims relating to construction deficiency We attempt to shift construction risks to its customers. We, however, provide a warranty period of two to three year after completion of the construction contract. Our customers generally keep the retention of 5 to 15 percent of the contract amount until the warranty period expires. Due to this retention period, our receivables can be significantly delayed and may adversely impact our cash flow. In accordance with SOP 81-1 (ASC 605)we continually review contract performance and any anticipated additional costs that might be associated with contract performance and modify contract income accordingly. Our practice in many instances has been to supersede these terms with an agreement to obtain insurance covering both the customer and ourselves. In cases where insurance is not obtained, our experience has often been that public sector customers have been willing to negotiate equitable adjustments in the contract compensation or completion time provisions if unexpected circumstances arise. If we are unable to obtain insurance, and if public sector customers seek to impose contractual risk-shifting provisions more aggressively, we could face increased risks, which may adversely affect our cash flow, earnings and financial position. Economic downturns or reductions in government funding of infrastructure projects, or the cancellation of significant contracts, could reduce our revenues and profits and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is highly dependent on the amount of infrastructure work funded by various governmental entities, which, in turn, depends on the overall condition of the economy, the need for new or replacement infrastructure, the priorities placed on various projects funded by governmental entities and federal, state or local government spending levels. Decreases in government funding of infrastructure projects could decrease the number of civil construction contracts available and limit our ability to obtain new contracts, which could reduce our revenues and profits. Due to the global downturn in the financial markets, Vietnam may not be able to maintain its recent growth rates mainly due to the lack of demand of exports to countries that are in recessions. Our earnings may become unstable if Vietnam’s domestic growth slows significantly and our public sector clients are unable to fund infrastructure projects. Contracts that we enter into with governmental entities may usually be canceled at any time by them with payment only for the work already completed. In addition, we could be prohibited from bidding on certain governmental contracts if we fail to maintain qualifications required by those entities. A sudden cancellation of a contract or our debarment from the bidding process could cause our equipment and work crews to remain idled for a significant period of time until other comparable work became available, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 12 The loans that finance our construction are renewable each year and classified as short-term loans creating a working capital deficit. Our banks’ failure to renew such loans or our failure to repay our loans could impact our operations. At December 31, 2009, we had $60,115,212 construction loans of which $54,740,704 are classified as short-term construction loans with interest rates ranging 10% to 17%. We obtain these short-term construction loans to finance our civil construction and mining projects. Each time we begin a construction project, we obtain a loan from one of several banks to purchase equipment and supplies and to mobilize our employees and materials to the worksite. As we complete a percentage of each construction project, our customer certifies our work in process and our customer, or its financing source, pays us for our completed work, less a retention percentage (which we will collect at the end of the warranty period), and we repay the bank from which we borrowed funds for each project. Construction contracts include a two to three year warranty period that is part of the construction contract. It is the general practice of Vietnamese banks to give short term loans such as these for each construction contract and make the loans renewable every year until the construction contract is completed. As a result, the loans are classified as current liabilities. Our retention receivables and a portion of our work in process, however, are classified as long-term assets. As a result, our working capital deficit as of December 31, 2009 was $23,628,581. As of December 31, 2009, long-term retention receivables and long-term work in process totaled $14,455,193. We expect to renew these loans with the banks and repay the balances as we complete our projects. In the year 2009, we made $73,634,129 of payments on our notes payable. We also needed to draw down $82,185,846 from our notes payable to finance our construction projects. Although a substantial majority of our loans are not secured by our assets other than our work in process and receivables, our banks’ decision not to renew these loans or our failure to repay these loans could have important consequences including the following: ● it may limit our ability to borrow money or issue equity to finance our working capital, construction projects or capital projects or other purposes; ● it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business; ● a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be dedicated to the repayment of our indebtedness and would not be available for other purposes; ● there would be a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we were unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed; and ● It may result in the banks repossessing up to $21,000,000 of our equipment and other assets. Our operations are currently focused in Vietnam, and any adverse change to the economy or business environment in Vietnam could significantly affect our operations, which would lead to lower revenues and reduced profitability. Our operations are currently concentrated in Vietnam. Because of this concentration in a specific geographic location, we are susceptible to fluctuations in our business caused by adverse economic or other conditions in this region, including natural or other disasters. A stagnant or depressed economy in Vietnam generally, or in any of the other markets that we serve, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to significant political and economic uncertainties and may be affected by political, economic and social developments in Vietnam. Over the past several years, the government of Vietnam has pursued economic reform policies. Changes in policies, laws and regulations or in their interpretations or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to stockholders, or devaluations of currency could cause a decline in the price of our common stock, should a market for our common stock ever develop. Our industry is highly competitive, with a variety of larger companies with greater resources competing with us, and our failure to compete effectively could reduce the number of new contracts awarded to us or adversely affect our margins on contracts awarded. Most contracts on which we bid are awarded through a competitive bid process, with awards generally being made to the lowest bidder, but sometimes recognizing other factors, such as shorter contract schedules or prior experience with the customer. Within our markets, we compete with many national, regional and local construction firms. Some of these competitors have achieved greater market penetration than we have in the markets in which we compete, and some have greater financial and other resources than we have. In addition, there are a number of national companies in our industry that are larger than we are and that, if they so desired, could establish a presence in our markets and compete with us for contracts. As a result, we may need to accept lower contract margins in order to compete against these competitors. If we are unable to compete successfully in our markets, our relative market share and profits could be reduced. 13 Our dependence on subcontractors and suppliers of materials, including petroleum-based products, could increase our costs and impair our ability to complete contracts on a timely basis or at all, which would adversely affect our profits and cash flow. We rely on third-party subcontractors to perform certain work on some of our contracts. We do not bid on contracts unless we have the necessary subcontractors committed for the anticipated scope of the contract and at prices that we have included in our bid. Therefore, to the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors, our ability to bid for contracts may be impaired. In addition, if a subcontractor is unable to deliver its services according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may suffer delays and be required to purchase the services from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized, or result in a loss, on a contract. We also rely on third-party suppliers to provide all of the materials, including fuel, aggregates (sand and gravel), concrete, steel and pipe, for our contracts. We do not own any quarries, and there are no naturally occurring sources of aggregates in Vietnam. We do not bid on contracts unless we have commitments from suppliers for the materials required to complete the contract and at prices that we have included in our bid. Thus, to the extent that we cannot obtain commitments from our suppliers for materials, our ability to bid for contracts may be impaired. In addition, if a supplier is unable to deliver materials according to the negotiated terms of a supply agreement for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may suffer delays and be required to purchase the materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit to be realized, or result in a loss, on a contract. Diesel fuel and other petroleum-based products are utilized to operate the equipment used in our construction contracts. Decreased supplies of those products relative to demand and other factors can cause an increase in their cost. Future increases in the costs of fuel and other petroleum-based products used in our business, particularly if a bid has been submitted for a contract and the costs of those products have been estimated at amounts less than the actual costs thereof, could result in a lower profit, or a loss, on a contract. Our contracts may require us to perform extra or change order work, which can result in disputes and adversely affect our working capital, profits and cash flows. Our contracts generally require us to perform extra work or change order work as directed by the customer even if the customer has not agreed in advance on the scope or price of the extra work to be performed. This process may result in disputes over whether the work performed is beyond the scope of the work included in the original project plans and specifications or, if the customer agrees that the work performed qualifies as extra work, the price that the customer is willing to pay for the extra work. These disputes may not be settled to our satisfaction. Even when the customer agrees to pay for the extra work, we may be required to fund the cost of that work for a lengthy period of time until the change order is approved by the customer and we are paid by the customer. To the extent that actual recoveries with respect to change orders or amounts subject to contract disputes or claims are less than the estimates used in our financial statements, the amount of any shortfall will reduce our future revenues and profits, and this could have a material adverse effect on our reported working capital and results of operations. In addition, any delay caused by the extra work may adversely impact the timely scheduling of other project work and our ability to meet specified contract milestones. Our failure to meet schedule or performance requirements of our contracts could adversely affect us. In most cases, our contracts require completion by a scheduled acceptance date. Failure to meet any such schedule could result in additional costs being incurred, penalties and liquidated damages being assessed against us, and these could exceed projected profit margins on the contract. Performance problems on existing and future contracts could cause actual results of operations to differ materially from those anticipated by us and could cause us to suffer damage to our reputation within the industry and among our customers. Timing of the award and performance of new contracts could have an adverse effect on our operating results and cash flow. At any point in time, a substantial portion of our revenues may be derived from a limited number of large construction contracts. It is generally very difficult to predict whether and when new contracts will be offered for tender, as these contracts frequently involve a lengthy and complex design and bidding process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and governmental approvals. Because of these factors, our results of operations and cash flows may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and the fluctuation may be substantial. 14 The uncertainty of the timing of contract awards may also present difficulties in matching the size of work crews with contract needs. In some cases, we may maintain and bear the cost of a ready work crew that is larger than currently required, in anticipation of future employee needs for existing contracts or expected future contracts. If a contract is delayed or an expected contract award is not received, we would incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on our anticipated profit. In addition, the timing of the revenues, earnings and cash flows from our contracts can be delayed by a number of factors, including adverse weather conditions such as prolonged or intense periods of rain, storms or flooding, delays in receiving material and equipment from suppliers and changes in the scope of work to be performed. Those delays, if they occur, could have an adverse effect on our operating results for a particular period. Our dependence on a limited number of customers could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Due to the size and nature of our construction contracts, one or a few customers have in the past and may in the future represent a substantial portion of our consolidated revenues and gross profits in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. Similarly, our contract backlog frequently reflects multiple contracts for individual customers; therefore, one customer may comprise a significant percentage of contract backlog at a certain point in time. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Electricity of Vietnam accounted for approximately 34% of our revenues. The loss of business from these entities could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Because we do not maintain any reserves for payment defaults, a default or delay in payment on a significant scale could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur higher costs to acquire and maintain equipment necessary for our operations, and the market value of our equipment may decline. We have traditionally owned most of the construction equipment used to build our projects, and we do not bid on contracts for which we do not have, or cannot quickly procure (whether through acquisition or lease), the necessary equipment. To the extent that we are unable to buy construction equipment necessary for our needs, either due to a lack of available funding or equipment shortages in the marketplace, we may be forced to rent equipment on a short-term basis, which could increase the costs of completing contracts. In addition, our equipment requires continuous maintenance for which we maintain our own repair facilities. If we are unable to continue to maintain the equipment in our fleet, we may be forced to obtain third-party repair services, which could increase our costs. The market value of our equipment may unexpectedly decline at a faster rate than anticipated. Such a decline would reduce the borrowing base under our construction business credit facility, thereby reducing the amount of credit available to us and impeding our ability to expand our business consistent with historical levels. Unanticipated adverse weather conditions may cause delays, which could slow completion of our contracts and negatively affect our revenues and cash flow. Because a part of our construction projects are built outdoors, work on our contracts is subject to unpredictable weather conditions. Lengthy periods of wet weather will generally interrupt construction, and this can lead to under-utilization of crews and equipment, resulting in less efficient rates of overhead recovery. While revenues can be recovered following a period of bad weather, it is generally impossible to recover the efficiencies, and hence, we may suffer reductions in the expected profit on contracts. Our operations are subject to hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage, thereby subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses, which may not be covered by insurance. Our workers are subject to the usual hazards associated with providing services on construction sites. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to, or destruction of, property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. We self-insure our workers’ compensation claims, subject to stop-loss insurance coverage. We also maintain insurance coverage in amounts and against the risks that we believe are consistent with industry practice, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur in our operations. Insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and quantify due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our estimates, we might also be required to use working capital to satisfy these claims rather than to maintain or expand our operations. To the extent that we experience a material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents or workers’ compensation claims, or unfavorable developments on existing claims, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 15 Environmental and other regulatory matters could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and could require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the management, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and the emission and discharge of pollutants into the air and water. As a contractor, however, our customers are primarily responsible for environmental protection. Nevertheless, we could be held liable for the contamination created not only by our own activities but also by the historical activities of others on our project sites or on properties that we acquire. Our operations are also subject to laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health, which, among other things, regulate employee exposure to hazardous substances. Violations of those laws and regulations could subject us to substantial fines and penalties, cleanup costs, third-party property damage or personal injury claims. In addition, these laws and regulations have become, and are becoming, increasingly stringent. Moreover, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of legislation or regulatory requirements that could be imposed, or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted, with respect to products or activities to which they have not been previously applied. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of the regulatory agencies, could require us to make substantial expenditures for, among other things, pollution control systems and other equipment that we do not currently possess, or the acquisition or modification of permits applicable to our activities. If we fail to obtain additional financing we will be unable to execute our business plan. We may need additional funds to finance our capital projects. Should such needs arise, we intend to seek additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing, strategic transactions and/or from other sources. There are no assurances that future funding will be available on favorable terms or at all. If additional funding is not obtained, we will need to reduce, defer or cancel development programs, planned initiatives or overhead expenditures, to the extent necessary. The failure to fund our capital requirements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face potential dilution of our ownership interest in our subsidiaries. We operate nationwide in Vietnam through our subsidiaries, serving almost exclusively public sector clients. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Cavico Vietnam, conducts its operations through a number of subsidiaries. Some of these entities are wholly owned while others are partially owned by Cavico Vietnam. The officers and directors of Cavico Vietnam also hold positions on the Boards of these subsidiaries. The profit/loss generated from the entities in which we have less than fifty percent ownership shares was $103,831 as loss and $93,716 as profit for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Some of our subsidiaries were able to raise working capital by selling their shares to independent third parties. During 2007 and 2008, we permitted some of our subsidiaries to sell shares to third parties for the purpose of raising funds for expanded operations, thereby reducing our percentage held in those entities. As of December 31, 2009, through either the purchase and sale of securities, Cavico Vietnam's consolidated ownership percentage from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009 in: Cavico Hydropower Construction JSC decreased from 71.80% to 71.74%; Cavico Tower decreased from 33.79% to 33.21%; Cavico Industry & Tech Service decreased from 64.64% to 62.08%; Cavico Stone & Mineral increased from 35.50% to 44.93%; Luong Son International Tourist increased from 90.90% to 92.16%; and Cavico Land increased from 13.35% to 15.25%. We do not plan to sell additional shares in any of our subsidiaries. If we do sell additional shares in our subsidiaries or if the subsidiaries sell additional shares to third parties, our ownership interest in our subsidiaries could be diluted and we would potentially recognize less income from our subsidiaries. We will be unsuccessful if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel. We depend on a core management team. The loss of any of these individuals could prevent us from achieving our business objective of commercializing our product candidates. Our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management team, engineers, technical operators, skilled labors with expertise in our construction field. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful, our business operations could suffer. 16 Risks Associated with Our Capital Structure Insiders have substantial control over the company, and issuance of shares of Common Stock pursuant to our incentive plan will dilute your ownership and voting rights and allow insiders to control the direction of the Company. Our executive officers and directors, beneficially owned as of March 15, 2010 in the aggregate, approximately 527,609 shares of our outstanding common stock , which constitutes approximately 17.3% of our outstanding shares. Our officers and directors ownership percentage will increase as a result of any shares issued under our incentive plan under which we can issue 1,250,000 shares to our officers, directors, employees and consultants. If we issue to our management all 1,250,000 shares of common stock issuable under our incentive plan, our management will control approximately 41.3% of the votes on matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Our common stock does not have a vigorous trading market and you may not be able to sell your securities when desired. We have a limited active public market for our common shares. We cannot assure you that a more active public market will ever develop, allowing you to sell large quantities of shares or all of your holdings. Consequently, you may not be able to liquidate your investment in the event of an emergency or for any other reason. Our common stock could be subject to extreme volatility. The trading price of our shares has fluctuated widely from time to time and may be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. The trading price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including events described in the risk factors set forth in this annual report, as well as our operating results, financial condition, announcements of construction projects, general conditions in Vietnam, Southeast Asia, overall country-wide development, and other events or factors. In recent years, broad stock market indices, in general, and smaller capitalization companies, in particular, have experienced substantial price fluctuations. In a volatile market, we may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. These fluctuations may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock. We have never paid dividends and have no plans to in the future. Holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to receive such dividends as may be declared by our Board of Directors. To date, we have paid no cash dividends on our shares of common stock and we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, to provide funds for operations of our business. Therefore, any return investors in our common stock may have will be in the form of appreciation, if any, in the market value of their shares of common stock. Our common stock may be subject to “penny stock” rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which may make it more difficult for stockholders to sell our common stock. Under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, if the price of our securities is below $5.00 per share and our securities are not listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market or another national securities exchange, our securities will come within the definition of a “penny stock.” In that case, our securities may become subject to the “penny stock” rules and regulations. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to certain types of investors are required to comply with the Commission's regulations concerning the transfer of penny stock. These regulations require broker-dealers to: • Make a suitability determination prior to selling penny stock to the purchaser; • Receive the purchaser's written consent to the transaction; and • Provide certain written disclosures to the purchaser. 17 These requirements may restrict the ability of broker/dealers to sell our securities, and may affect the ability to resell our securities. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our stock. We are in the process of implementing and monitoring our internal control procedures throughout the Company and improving the areas of weakness. Our management identified material weaknesses in internal control during its assessment of internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. We lack an effective and efficient period end close the books process to timely prepare for audits and financial reporting deadlines. Management determined that we did not fully implement our transition to United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“US GAAP”) which are different from the accounting principles used in Vietnam. As a result, we were required to record material adjustments to the December 31, 2009 and 2008 financial statements to bring them into compliance. In an effort to remediate the identified material weakness and to further enhance our internal controls, we are in the process of identifying and retaining a consultant who can work with our Vietnamese accounting team to indentify US GAAP related issues and help evaluate and address such issues before they present problems in reporting in the United States. If we fail to remain current in our reporting requirements, our securities could be removed from the NASDAQ Capital Market, which would limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Companies trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, and must be current in their reports under Section 13, in order to maintain price quotation privileges on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the NASDAQ Capital Market. As a result, the market liquidity for our securities could be severely adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flow from operations and the net proceeds from this financing will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The implementation of our stock-based incentive plan may dilute your percentage ownership interest and may also result in downward pressure on the price of our stock. Our Board has adopted a stock-based incentive plan, which was approved at a special shareholders’ meeting on April 27, 2009. Under the incentive plan, we can grant 1,250,000 shares to our officers, directors, employees and consultants. Shareholders would experience a dilution in ownership interest, assuming the maximum issuance of 1,250,000 shares from stock options or awards of restricted stock under the plan. In addition, the existence of a significant amount of stock and stock options that would be issuable upon the adoption and approval of our stock-based incentive plan may be perceived by the market as having a dilutive effect, which could lead to a decrease in the price of our common stock. 18 Risks Related to Doing Business in Vietnam Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the Vietnamese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of Vietnam, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in Vietnam. The Vietnamese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the amount of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. While the Vietnamese economy has grown significantly in the past 20 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Vietnam government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Vietnamese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by Vietnamese government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Vietnamese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Vietnamese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in Vietnam is still owned by the Vietnam government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Vietnamese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Vietnam government also exercises significant control over Vietnamese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Vietnam government to slow the pace of growth of the Vietnamese economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by the government, which in turn could reduce demand for our services. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in Vietnam could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of energy and infrastructure investments and expenditures in Vietnam, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. All of our revenues and most of our expenses are denominated in the Vietnamese Dong. If our revenues denominated in the Vietnamese Dong increase or expenses denominated in Vietnamese Dong decrease in the future, we may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. 19 Our operations and assets in Vietnam are subject to significant political and economic uncertainties. Government policies are subject to rapid change and the Vietnam government may adopt policies which have the effect of hindering private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance that the Vietnam government will not significantly alter its policies from time to time without notice in a manner with reduces or eliminates any benefits from its present policies of economic reform. In addition, a substantial portion of productive assets in Vietnam remains government-owned. For instance, all lands are state owned and leased to business entities or individuals through governmental granting of state-owned land use rights. The granting process is typically based on the government policies at the time of granting, which could be lengthy and complex. This process may adversely affect our business. The Vietnam government also exercises significant control over Vietnam’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Uncertainties may arise with changing of governmental policies and measures. In addition, changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency, the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises, as well as adverse changes in the political, economic or social conditions in Vietnam, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A downturn in the economy of Vietnam may slow our growth and profitability. The growth of the Vietnamese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Vietnamese economy will be steady or that any downturn will not have a negative effect on our business. It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors and assets based in Vietnam. Substantially all of our assets are located in Vietnam and the majority of our officers and present directors reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for United States investors to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. Moreover, we have been advised that Vietnam does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and Vietnam would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the Federal securities laws. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable ITEM 