Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risk factors should be read in connection with the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and USNG’s financial statements and the related notes. Risks Associated With Investing Directly or Indirectly in Natural Gas Investing in Natural Gas Interests subjects USNG to the risks of the natural gas industry and this could result in large fluctuations in the price of USNG’s units. USNG is subject to the risks and hazards of the natural gas industry because it invests in Natural Gas Interests. The risks and hazards that are inherent in the natural gas industry may cause the price of natural gas to widely fluctuate. If the changes in percentage terms of USNG’s units accurately track the percentage changes in the Benchmark Futures Contract or the spot price of natural gas, then the price of its units may also fluctuate. The exploration for, and production of, natural gas is an uncertain process with many risks. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells for natural gas is often uncertain, and a number of factors can delay or prevent drilling operations or production, including: · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or repairs; · fires or other accidents; · adverse weather conditions; · pipeline ruptures or spills; and · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment. Natural gas transmission, distribution, gathering, and processing activities involve numerous risks that may affect the price of natural gas. There are a variety of hazards inherent in natural gas transmission, distribution, gathering, and processing, such as leaks, explosions, pollution, release of toxic substances, adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and flooding), pipeline failure, abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of natural gas, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, and other hazards which could affect the price of natural gas. To the extent these hazards limit the supply or delivery of natural gas, natural gas prices will increase. The price of natural gas may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and this would result in fluctuations in the price of USNG’s units. Natural gas prices fluctuate seasonally. For example, in some parts of the United States and other markets, the natural gas demand for power peaks during the cold winter months, with market prices peaking at that time. As a result, in the future, the overall price of natural gas may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal and quarterly basis and thus make consecutive period to period comparisons less relevant. Natural gas transmission and storage operations are subject to government regulations and rate proceedings which could have an impact on the price of natural gas. Natural gas transmission and storage operations in North America are subject to regulation and oversight by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, various state regulatory agencies, and Canadian regulatory authorities. These regulatory bodies have the authority to effect rate settlements on natural gas storage, transmission and distribution services. As a consequence, the price of natural gas may be affected by a change in the rate settlements effected by one or more of these regulatory bodies. - 42 - - Table of Contents The price of USNG’s units may be influenced by factors such as the short-term supply and demand for natural gas and the short-term supply and demand for USNG’s units. This may cause the units to trade at a price that is above or below USNG’s NAV per unit. Accordingly, changes in the price of units may substantially vary from the changes in the spot price of natural gas. If this variation occurs, then investors may not be able to effectively use USNG as a way to hedge against natural gas-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in natural gas. While it is expected that the trading prices of the units will fluctuate in accordance with changes in USNG’s NAV, the prices of units may also be influenced by other factors, including the short-term supply and demand for natural gas and the units. There is no guarantee that the units will not trade at appreciable discounts from, and/or premiums to, USNG’s NAV. This could cause changes in the price of the units to substantially vary from changes in the spot price of natural gas. This may be harmful to investors because if changes in the price of units vary substantially from changes in the spot price of natural gas, then investors may not be able to effectively use USNG as a way to hedge the risk of losses in their natural gas-related transactions or as a way to indirectly invest in natural gas. Changes in USNG’s NAV may not correlate with changes in the price of the Benchmark Futures Contract. If this were to occur, investors may not be able to effectively use USNG as a way to hedge against natural gas-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in natural gas. The General Partner endeavors to invest USNG’s assets as fully as possible in short-term Futures Contracts and Other Natural Gas-Related Investments so that the changes in percentage terms of the NAV closely correlate with the changes in percentage terms in the price of the Benchmark Futures Contract. However, changes in USNG’s NAV may not correlate with the changes in the price of the Benchmark Futures Contract for several reasons as set forth below: · USNG (i) may not be able to buy/sell the exact amount of Futures Contracts and Other Natural Gas-Related Investments to have a perfect correlation with NAV; (ii) may not always be able to buy and sell Futures Contracts or Other Natural Gas-Related Investments at the market price; (iii) may not experience a perfect correlation between the spot price of natural gas and the underlying investments in Futures Contracts, Other Natural Gas-Related Investments and Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents; and (iv) is required to pay fees, including brokerage fees and the management fee, which will have an effect on the correlation. · Short-term supply and demand for natural gas may cause the changes in the market price of the Benchmark Futures Contract to vary from changes in USNG’s NAV if USNG has fully invested in Futures Contracts that do not reflect such supply and demand and it is unable to replace such contracts with Futures Contracts that do reflect such supply and demand. In addition, there are also technical differences between the two markets, e.g., one is a physical market while the other is a futures market traded on exchanges, that may cause variations between the spot price of natural gas and the prices of related futures contracts. · USNG plans to buy only as many Futures Contracts and Other Natural Gas-Related Investments that it can to get the changes in percentage terms of the NAV as close as possible to the changes in percentage terms in the price of the Benchmark Futures Contract. The remainder of its assets will be invested in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents and will be used to satisfy initial margin and additional margin requirements, if any, and to otherwise support its investments in Natural Gas Interests. Investments in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents, both directly and as margin, will provide rates of return that will vary from changes in the value of the spot price of natural gas and the price of the Benchmark Futures Contract. - 43 - - Table of Contents · In addition, because USNG incurs certain expenses in connection with its investment activities, and holds most of its assets in more liquid short-term securities for margin and other liquidity purposes and for redemptions that may be necessary on an ongoing basis, the General Partner is generally not able to fully invest USNG’s assets in Futures Contracts or Other Natural Gas-Related Investments and there cannot be perfect correlation between changes in USNG’s NAV and changes in the price of the Benchmark Futures Contract. · As USNG grows, there may be more or less correlation. For example, if USNG only has enough money to buy three Benchmark Futures Contracts and it needs to buy four contracts to track the price of natural gas then the correlation will be lower, but if it buys 20,000 Benchmark Futures Contracts and it needs to buy 20,001 contracts then the correlation will be higher. At certain asset levels, USNG may be limited in its ability to purchase the Benchmark Futures Contract or other Futures Contracts due to accountability levels imposed by the relevant exchanges. To the extent that USNG invests in these other Futures Contracts or Other Natural Gas-Related Investments, the correlation with the Benchmark Futures Contract may be lower. If USNG is required to invest in other Futures Contracts and Other Natural Gas-Related Investments that are less correlated with the Benchmark Futures Contract, USNG would likely invest in over-the-counter contracts to increase the level of correlation of USNG’s assets. Over-the-counter contracts entail certain risks described below under “Over-the-Counter Contract Risk.” · USNG may not be able to buy the exact number of Futures Contracts and Other Natural Gas-Related Investments to have a perfect correlation with the Benchmark Futures Contract if the purchase price of Futures Contracts required to be fully invested in such contracts is higher than the proceeds received for the sale of a Creation Basket on the day the basket was sold. In such case, USNG could not invest the entire proceeds from the purchase of the Creation Basket in such futures contracts (for example, assume USNG receives $4,000,000 for the sale of a Creation Basket and assume that the price of a Futures Contract for natural gas is $59,950, then USNG could only invest in only 66 Futures Contracts with an aggregate value of $3,956,700), USNG would be required to invest a percentage of the proceeds in cash, Treasuries or other liquid securities to be deposited as margin with the futures commission merchant through which the contract was purchased. The remainder of the purchase price for the Creation Basket would remain invested in cash and/or cash equivalents and Treasuries or other liquid securities as determined by the General Partner from time to time based on factors such as potential calls for margin or anticipated redemptions. If the trading market for Futures Contracts is suspended or closed, USNG may not be able to purchase these investments at the last reported price for such investments. If changes in USNG’s NAV do not correlate with changes in the price of the Benchmark Futures Contract, then investing in USNG may not be an effective way to hedge against natural gas-related losses or indirectly invest in natural gas. The Benchmark Futures Contract may not correlate with the spot price of natural gas and this could cause changes in the price of the units to substantially vary from the changes in the spot price of natural gas. If this were to occur, then investors may not be able to effectively use USNG as a way to hedge against natural gas-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in natural gas. When using the Benchmark Futures Contract as a strategy to track the spot price of natural gas, at best the correlation between changes in prices of such Natural Gas Interests and the spot price of natural gas can be only approximate. The degree of imperfection of correlation depends upon circumstances such as variations in the speculative natural gas market, supply of and demand for such Natural Gas Interests and technical influences in futures trading. If there is a weak correlation between the Natural Gas Interests and the spot price of natural gas, then the price of units may not accurately track the spot price of natural gas and investors may not be able to effectively use USNG as a way to hedge the risk of losses in their natural gas-related transactions or as a way to indirectly invest in natural gas. - 44 - - Table of Contents USNG may experience a loss if it is required to sell Treasuries at a price lower than the price at which they were acquired. The value of Treasuries generally moves inversely with movements in interest rates. If USNG is required to sell Treasuries at a price lower than the price at which they were acquired, USNG will experience a loss. This loss may adversely impact the price of the units and may decrease the correlation between the price of the units, the price of the Benchmark Futures Contract and Other Natural Gas-Related Investments, and the spot price of natural gas. Certain of USNG’s investments could be illiquid which could cause large losses to investors at any time or from time to time. USNG may not always be able to liquidate its positions in its investments at the desired price. It is difficult to execute a trade at a specific price when there is a relatively small volume of buy and sell orders in a market. A market disruption, such as a foreign government taking political actions that disrupt the market in its currency, its natural gas production or exports, or in another major export, can also make it difficult to liquidate a position. Alternatively, limits imposed by futures exchanges or other regulatory organizations, such as accountability levels, position limits and daily price fluctuation limits, may contribute to a lack of liquidity with respect to some commodity interests. Unexpected market illiquidity may cause major losses to investors at any time or from time to time. In addition, USNG has not and does not intend at this time to establish a credit facility, which would provide an additional source of liquidity and instead will rely only on the Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents that it holds. The anticipated large value of the positions in Futures Contracts that the General Partner will acquire or enter into for USNG increases the risk of illiquidity. The Other Natural Gas-Related Investments that USNG invests in, such as negotiated over-the-counter contracts, may have a greater likelihood of being illiquid since they are contracts between two parties that take into account not only market risk, but also the relative credit, tax, and settlement risks under such contracts. Such contracts also have limited transferability that results from such risks and the contract’s express limitations. Because both Futures Contracts and Other Natural Gas-Related Investments may be illiquid, USNG’s Natural Gas Interests may be more difficult to liquidate at favorable prices in periods of illiquid markets and losses may be incurred during the period in which positions are being liquidated. If the nature of hedgors and speculators in futures markets has shifted such that natural gas purchasers are the predominant hedgors in the market, USNG might have to reinvest at higher futures prices or choose Other Natural Gas-Related Investments. The changing nature of the hedgors and speculators in the natural gas market influences whether futures prices are above or below the expected future spot price. In order to induce speculators to take the corresponding long side of the same futures contract, natural gas producers must generally be willing to sell futures contracts at prices that are below expected future spot prices. Conversely, if the predominant hedgors in the futures market are the purchasers of the natural gas who purchase futures contracts to hedge against a rise in prices, then speculators will only take the short side of the futures contract if the futures price is greater than the expected future spot price of natural gas. This can have significant implications for USNG when it is time to reinvest the proceeds from a maturing Futures Contract into a new Futures Contract. While USNG does not intend to take physical delivery of natural gas under its Futures Contracts, physical delivery under such contracts impacts the value of the contracts. While it is not the current intention of USNG to take physical delivery of natural gas under its Futures Contracts, futures contracts are not required to be cash-settled and it is possible to take delivery under these contracts. Storage costs associated with purchasing natural gas could result in costs and other liabilities that could impact the value of Futures Contracts or Other Natural Gas-Related Investments. Storage costs include the time value of money invested in natural gas as a physical commodity plus the actual costs of storing the natural gas less any benefits from ownership of natural gas that are not obtained by the holder of a futures contract. In general, Futures Contracts have a one-month delay for contract delivery and the back month (the back month is any future delivery month other than the spot month) includes storage costs. To the extent that these storage costs change for natural gas while USNG holds Futures Contracts or Other Natural Gas-Related Investments, the value of the Futures Contracts or Other Natural Gas-Related Investments, and therefore USNG’s NAV, may change as well. - 45 - - Table of Contents The price relationship between the near month contract and the next month contract that compose the Benchmark Futures Contract will vary and may impact both the total return over time of USNG’s NAV, as well as the degree to which its total return tracks other natural gas price indices’ total returns. The Benchmark Futures Contract is the near month contract to expire until the near month contract is within two weeks of expiration, when, over a four day period, it transitions to the next month contract to expire as its benchmark contract and keeps that contract as its benchmark until it becomes the near month contract and close to expiration. In the event of a natural gas futures market where near month contracts trade at a higher price than next month to expire contracts, a situation described as “backwardation” in the futures market, then absent the impact of the overall movement in natural gas prices the value of the benchmark contract would tend to rise as it approaches expiration. As a result the total return of the Benchmark Futures Contract would tend to track higher. Conversely, in the event of a natural gas futures market where near month contracts trade at a lower price than next month contracts, a situation described as “contango” in the futures market, then absent the impact of the overall movement in natural gas prices the value of the benchmark contract would tend to decline as it approaches expiration. As a result the total return of the Benchmark Futures Contract would tend to track lower. When compared to total return of other price indices, such as the spot price of natural gas, the impact of backwardation and contango may lead the total return of USNG’s NAV to vary significantly. In the event of a prolonged period of contango, and absent the impact of rising or falling natural gas prices, this could have a significant negative impact on USNG’s NAV and total return. Regulation of the commodity interests and energy markets is extensive and constantly changing; future regulatory developments are impossible to predict but may significantly and adversely affect USNG. The futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations, and margin requirements. In addition, the CFTC and the exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of a market emergency, including, for example, the retroactive implementation of speculative position limits or higher margin requirements, the establishment of daily price limits and the suspension of trading. The regulation of futures transactions in the United States is a rapidly changing area of law and is subject to modification by government and judicial action. The regulation of commodity interest transactions in the United States is a rapidly changing area of law and is subject to ongoing modification by governmental and judicial action. Considerable regulatory attention has been focused on non-traditional investment pools which are publicly distributed in the United States. There is a possibility of future regulatory changes altering, perhaps to a material extent, the nature of an investment in USNG or the ability of USNG to continue to implement its investment strategy. In addition, various national governments have expressed concern regarding the disruptive effects of speculative trading in the energy markets and the need to regulate the derivatives markets in general. The effect of any future regulatory change on USNG is impossible to predict, but could be substantial and adverse. Investing in USNG for purposes of hedging may be subject to several risks including the possibility of losing the benefit of favorable market movement. Participants in the natural gas or in other industries may use USNG as a vehicle to hedge the risk of losses in their natural gas-related transactions. There are several risks in connection with using USNG as a hedging device. While hedging can provide protection against an adverse movement in market prices, it can also preclude a hedgor’s opportunity to benefit from a favorable market movement. In a hedging transaction, the hedgor may be concerned that the hedged item will increase in price, but must recognize the risk that the price may instead decline and if this happens he will have lost his opportunity to profit from the change in price because the hedging transaction will result in a loss rather than a gain. Thus, the hedgor foregoes the opportunity to profit from favorable price movements. - 46 - - Table of Contents In addition, if the hedge is not a perfect one, the hedgor can lose on the hedging transaction and not realize an offsetting gain in the value of the underlying item being hedged. When using futures contracts as a hedging technique, at best, the correlation between changes in prices of futures contracts and of the items being hedged can be only approximate. The degree of imperfection of correlation depends upon circumstances such as: variations in speculative markets, demand for futures and for natural gas products, technical influences in futures trading, and differences between anticipated energy costs being hedged and the instruments underlying the standard futures contracts available for trading. Even a well-conceived hedge may be unsuccessful to some degree because of unexpected market behavior as well as the expenses associated with creating the hedge. In addition, using an investment in USNG as a hedge for changes in energy costs (e.g., investing in natural gas, crude oil, gasoline, or other fuels, or electricity) may not correlate because changes in the spot price may vary from changes in energy costs because the spot price of natural gas may not be at the same rate as changes in the price of other energy products, and, in any case, the price of natural gas does not reflect the refining, transportation, and other costs that may impact the hedgor’s energy costs. An investment in USNG may provide little or no diversification benefits. Thus, in a declining market, USNG may have no gains to offset losses from other investments, and an investor may suffer losses on an investment in USNG while incurring losses with respect to other asset classes. Historically, Futures Contracts and Other Natural Gas-Related Investments have generally been non-correlated to the performance of other asset classes such as stocks and bonds. Non-correlation means that there is a low statistically valid relationship between the performance of futures and other commodity interest transactions, on the one hand, and stocks or bonds, on the other hand. However, there can be no assurance that such non-correlation will continue during future periods. If, contrary to historic patterns, USNG’s performance were to move in the same general direction as the financial markets, investors will obtain little or no diversification benefits from an investment in the units. In such a case, USNG may have no gains to offset losses from other investments, and investors may suffer losses on their investment in USNG at the same time they incur losses with respect to other investments. Variables such as drought, floods, weather, embargoes, tariffs and other political events may have a larger impact on natural gas prices and natural gas-linked instruments, including Futures Contracts and Other Natural Gas-Related Investments, than on traditional securities. These additional variables may create additional investment risks that subject USNG’s investments to greater volatility than investments in traditional securities. Non-correlation should not be confused with negative correlation, where the performance of two asset classes would be opposite of each other. There is no historic evidence that the spot price of natural gas and prices of other financial assets, such as stocks and bonds, are negatively correlated. In the absence of negative correlation, USNG cannot be expected to be automatically profitable during unfavorable periods for the stock market, or vice versa. USNG’s Operating Risks USNG is not a registered investment company so unitholders do not have the protections of the 1940 Act. USNG is not an investment company subject to the 1940 Act. Accordingly, investors do not have the protections afforded by that statute which, for example, requires investment companies to have a majority of disinterested directors and regulates the relationship between the investment company and its investment manager. The General Partner is leanly staffed and relies heavily on key personnel to manage trading activities. In managing and directing the day-to-day activities and affairs of USNG, the General Partner relies heavily on Messrs. Nicholas Gerber, John Love and John Hyland. If Messrs. Gerber, Love or Hyland were to leave or be unable to carry out their present responsibilities, it may have an adverse effect on the management of USNG. Furthermore, Messrs. Gerber, Love and Hyland are currently involved in the management of the Related Public Funds, and the General Partner has filed a registration statement for two other exchange traded security funds, USSO and US12NG. Mr. Gerber is also employed by Ameristock Corporation, a registered investment adviser that manages a public mutual fund. It is estimated that Mr. Gerber will spend approximately 50% of his time on USNG and Related Public Fund matters. Mr. Love will spend approximately 100% of his time on USNG and Related Public Fund matters and Mr. Hyland will spend approximately 85% of his time on USNG and Related Public Fund matters. To the extent that the General Partner establishes additional funds, even greater demands will be placed on Messrs. Gerber, Love and Hyland, as well as the other officers of the General Partner, including Mr. Howard Mah, the Chief Financial Officer, and its Board of Directors. - 47 - - Table of Contents Accountability levels, position limits, and daily price fluctuation limits set by the exchanges have the potential to cause a tracking error, which could cause the price of units to substantially vary from the price of the Benchmark Futures Contract and prevent investors from being able to effectively use USNG as a way to hedge against natural gas-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in natural gas. U.S. designated contract markets such as the NYMEX have established accountability levels and position limits on the maximum net long or net short futures contracts in commodity interests that any person or group of persons under common trading control (other than as a hedge, which an investment by USNG is not) may hold, own or control. For example, the current accountability level for investments at any one time in the Benchmark Futures Contract is 12,000. While this is not a fixed ceiling, it is a threshold above which the NYMEX may exercise greater scrutiny and control over an investor, including limiting an investor to holding no more than 12,000 Benchmark Futures Contracts. With regard to position limits, the NYMEX limits an investor from holding more than 1,000 net futures in the last 3 days of trading in the near month contract to expire. In addition to accountability levels and position limits, the NYMEX also sets daily price fluctuation limits on the Futures Contracts. The daily price fluctuation limit establishes the maximum amount that the price of a futures contract may vary either up or down from the previous day’s settlement price. Once the daily price fluctuation limit has been reached in a particular Futures Contract, no trades may be made at a price beyond that limit. For example, the NYMEX imposes a $3.00 per mmBtu ($30,000 per contract) price fluctuation limit for the Benchmark Futures Contract. This limit is initially based off of the previous trading day’s settlement price. If any Benchmark Futures Contract is traded, bid, or offered at the limit for five minutes, trading is halted for five minutes. When trading resumes it begins at the point where the limit was imposed and the limit is reset to be $3.00 per mmBtu in either direction of that point. If another halt were triggered, the market would continue to be expanded by $3.00 per mmBtu in either direction after each successive five-minute trading halt. There is no maximum price fluctuation limit during any one trading session. All of these limits may potentially cause a tracking error between the price of the units and the price of the Benchmark Futures Contract. This may in turn prevent investors from being able to effectively use USNG as a way to hedge against natural gas-related losses or as a way to indirectly invest in natural gas. USNG has not limited the size of its offering and is committed to utilizing substantially all of its proceeds to purchase Futures Contracts and Other Natural Gas-Related Investments. If USNG encounters accountability levels, position limits, or price fluctuation limits for Futures Contracts on the NYMEX, it may then, if permitted under applicable regulatory requirements, purchase Futures Contracts on the ICE Futures (formerly, the International Petroleum Exchange) or other exchanges that trade listed natural gas futures. Futures Contracts available on ICE Futures and other exchanges may have different underlying commodities, sizes, deliveries, and prices which could affect USNG's ability to track the Benchmark Futures Contract. There are technical and fundamental risks inherent in the trading system the General Partner intends to employ. The General Partner’s trading system is quantitative in nature and it is possible that the General Partner might make a mathematical error. In addition, it is also possible that a computer or software program may malfunction and cause an error in computation. To the extent that the General Partner uses spreads and straddles as part of its trading strategy, there is the risk that the NAV may not closely track the changes in the Benchmark Futures Contract. Spreads combine simultaneous long and short positions in related futures contracts that differ by commodity (e.g., long crude oil and short gasoline), by market (e.g., long WTI crude futures, short Brent crude futures), or by delivery month (e.g., long December, short November). Spreads gain or lose value as a result of relative changes in price between the long and short positions. Spreads often reduce risk to investors, because the contracts tend to move up or down together. However, both legs of the spread could move against an investor simultaneously, in which case the spread would lose value. Certain types of spreads may face unlimited risk, e.g., because the price of a futures contract underlying a short position can increase by an unlimited amount and the investor would have to take delivery or offset at that price. - 48 - - Table of Contents A commodity straddle takes both long and short option positions in the same commodity in the same market and delivery month simultaneously. The buyer of a straddle profits if either the long or the short leg of the straddle moves further than the combined cost of both options. The seller of a straddle profits if both the long and short positions do not trade beyond a range equal to the combined premium for selling both options. If the General Partner were to utilize a spread or straddle position and the spread performed differently than expected, the results could impact USNG’s tracking error. This could affect USNG’s investment objective of having its NAV closely track the changes in the Benchmark Futures Contract. Additionally, a loss on a spread position would negatively impact USNG’s absolute return. USNG and the General Partner may have conflicts of interest, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of unitholders. USNG and the General Partner may have inherent conflicts to the extent the General Partner attempts to maintain USNG’s asset size in order to preserve its fee income and this may not always be consistent with USNG’s objective of having the value of its units’ NAV track changes in the Benchmark Futures Contract. The General Partner’s officers, directors and employees do not devote their time exclusively to USNG. These persons are directors, officers or employees of other entities that may compete with USNG for their services. They could have a conflict between their responsibilities to USNG and to those other entities. In addition, the General Partner’s principals, officers, directors or employees may trade futures and related contracts for their own account. A conflict of interest may exist if their trades are in the same markets and at the same time as USNG trades using the clearing broker to be used by USNG. A potential conflict also may occur if the General Partner’s principals, officers, directors or employees trade their accounts more aggressively or take positions in their accounts which are opposite, or ahead of, the positions taken by USNG. The General Partner has sole current authority to manage the investments and operations of USNG, and this may allow it to act in a way that furthers its own interests which may create a conflict with the best interests of investors. Limited partners have limited voting control, which will limit the ability to influence matters such as amendment of the LP Agreement, change in USNG’s basic investment policy, dissolution of this fund, or the sale or distribution of USNG’s assets. The General Partner serves as the general partner to each of USNG and the Related Public Funds and will serve as the general partner for USSO and US12NG, if such funds offer their securities to the public or begin operations. The General Partner may have a conflict to the extent that its trading decisions for USNG may be influenced by the effect they would have on the other funds it manages. These trading decisions may be influenced since the General Partner also serves as the general partner for all of the funds and is required to meet all of the funds’ investment objectives as well as USNG’s. If the General Partner believes that a trading decision it made on behalf of USNG might (i) impede its other funds from reaching their investment objectives, or (ii) improve the likelihood of meeting its other funds’ objectives, then the General Partner may choose to change its trading decision for USNG, which could either impede or improve the opportunity for USNG to meet its investment objective. In addition, the General Partner is required to indemnify the officers and directors of its other funds if the need for indemnification arises. This potential indemnification will cause the General Partner’s assets to decrease. If the General Partner’s other sources of income are not sufficient to compensate for the indemnification, then the General Partner may terminate and investors could lose their investment. - 49 - - Table of Contents Unitholders may only vote on the removal of the General Partner and limited partners have only limited voting rights. Unitholders and limited partners will not participate in the management of USNG and do not control the General Partner so they will not have influence over basic matters that affect USNG. Unitholders that have not applied to become limited partners have no voting rights, other than to remove the General Partner. Limited partners will have limited voting rights with respect to USNG’s affairs. Unitholders may remove the General Partner only if 66 2/3% of the unitholders elect to do so. Unitholders and limited partners will not be permitted to participate in the management or control of USNG or the conduct of its business. Unitholders and limited partners must therefore rely upon the duties and judgment of the General Partner to manage USNG’s affairs. The General Partner may manage a large amount of assets and this could affect USNG’s ability to trade profitably. Increases in assets under management may affect trading decisions. In general, the General Partner does not intend to limit the amount of assets of USNG that it may manage. The more assets the General Partner manages, the more difficult it may be for it to trade profitably because of the difficulty of trading larger positions without adversely affecting prices and performance and of managing risk associated with larger positions. USNG could terminate at any time and cause the liquidation and potential loss of an investor’s investment and could upset the overall maturity and timing of an investor’s investment portfolio. USNG may terminate at any time, regardless of whether USNG has incurred losses, subject to the terms of the LP Agreement. In particular, unforeseen circumstances, including the death, adjudication of incompetence, bankruptcy, dissolution, or removal of the General Partner could cause USNG to terminate unless a majority in interest of the limited partners within 90 days of the event elects to continue the partnership and appoints a successor general partner, or the affirmative vote of a majority interest of the limited partners subject to certain conditions. However, no level of losses will require the General Partner to terminate USNG. USNG’s termination would cause the liquidation and potential loss of an investor’s investment. Termination could also negatively affect the overall maturity and timing of an investor’s investment portfolio. Limited partners may not have limited liability in certain circumstances, including potentially having liability for the return of wrongful distributions. Under Delaware law, a limited partner might be held liable for USNG’s obligations as if it were a General Partner if the limited partner participates in the control of the partnership’s business and the persons who transact business with the partnership think the limited partner is the General Partner. A limited partner will not be liable for assessments in addition to its initial capital investment in any of USNG’s capital securities representing units. However, a limited partner may be required to repay to USNG any amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to it under some circumstances. Under Delaware law, USNG may not make a distribution to limited partners if the distribution causes USNG’s liabilities (other than liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities) to exceed the fair value of USNG’s assets. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives such a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated the law will be liable to the limited partnership for the amount of the distribution for three years from the date of the distribution. With adequate notice, a limited partner may be required to withdraw from the partnership for any reason. If the General Partner gives at least fifteen (15) days’ written notice to a limited partner, then the General Partner may for any reason, in its sole discretion, require any such limited partner to withdraw entirely from the partnership or to withdraw a portion of its partner capital account. The General Partner may require withdrawal even in situations where the limited partner has complied completely with the provisions of the LP Agreement. - 50 - - Table of Contents USNG’s existing units are, and any units USNG issues in the future will be, subject to restrictions on transfer. Failure to satisfy these requirements will preclude a transferee from being able to have all the rights of a limited partner. No transfer of any unit or interest therein may be made if such transfer would (a) violate the then applicable federal or state securities laws or rules and regulations of the SEC, any state securities commission, the CFTC or any other governmental authority with jurisdiction over such transfer, or (b) cause USNG to be taxable as a corporation or affect USNG’s existence or qualification as a limited partnership. In addition, investors may only become limited partners if they transfer their units to purchasers that meet certain conditions outlined in the LP Agreement, which provides that each record holder or limited partner or unitholder applying to become a limited partner (each a record holder) may be required by the General Partner to furnish certain information, including that holder’s nationality, citizenship or other related status. A transferee who is not a U.S. resident may not be eligible to become a record holder or a limited partner if its ownership would subject USNG to the risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any of its assets under any federal, state or local law or regulation. All purchasers of USNG’s units, who wish to become limited partners or record holders, and receive cash distributions, if any, or have certain other rights, must deliver an executed transfer application in which the purchaser or transferee must certify that, among other things, he, she or it agrees to be bound by USNG’s LP Agreement and is eligible to purchase USNG’s securities. Any transfer of units will not be recorded by the transfer agent or recognized by USNG unless a completed transfer application is delivered to the General Partner or the Administrator. A person purchasing USNG’s existing units, who does not execute a transfer application and certify that the purchaser is eligible to purchase those securities acquires no rights in those securities other than the right to resell those securities. Whether or not a transfer application is received or the consent of the General Partner obtained, USNG’s units will be securities and will be transferable according to the laws governing transfers of securities. See “Transfer of Units.” USNG does not expect to make cash distributions. The General Partner has not previously made any cash distributions and intends to re-invest any realized gains in Natural Gas Interests rather than distributing cash to limited partners. Therefore, unlike mutual funds, commodity pools or other investment pools that actively manage their investments in an attempt to realize income and gains from their investing activities and distribute such income and gains to their investors, USNG generally does not expect to distribute cash to limited partners. An investor should not invest in USNG if it will need cash distributions from USNG to pay taxes on its share of income and gains of USNG, if any, or for any other reason. Although USNG does not intend to make cash distributions, the income earned from its investments held directly or posted as margin may reach levels that merit distribution, e.g., at levels where such income is not necessary to support its underlying investments in Natural Gas Interests and investors adversely react to being taxed on such income without receiving distributions that could be used to pay such tax. If this income becomes significant then cash distributions may be made. There is a risk that USNG will not earn trading gains sufficient to compensate for the fees and expenses that it must pay and as such USNG may not earn any profit. USNG pays brokerage charges of approximately 0.13%, based on futures commission merchant fees of $3.50 per buy or sell, management fees of 0.60% of NAV on the first $1,000,000,000 of assets and 0.50% of NAV after the first $1,000,000,000 of its average net assets, and over-the-counter spreads and extraordinary expenses (e.g., subsequent offering expenses, other expenses not in the ordinary course of business, including the indemnification of any person against liabilities and obligations to the extent permitted by law and required under the LP Agreement and under agreements entered into by the General Partner on USNG’s behalf and the bringing and defending of actions at law or in equity and otherwise engaging in the conduct of litigation and the incurring of legal expenses and the settlement of claims and litigation) that can not be quantified. These fees and expenses must be paid in all cases regardless of whether USNG’s activities are profitable. Accordingly, USNG must earn trading gains sufficient to compensate for these fees and expenses before it can earn any profit. USNG has historically depended upon its affiliates to pay all its expenses. If this offering of units does not raise sufficient funds to pay USNG’s future expenses and no other source of funding of expenses is found, USNG may be forced to terminate and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Prior to the offering of units that commenced on April 17, 2007, all of USNG’s expenses were funded by the General Partner and its affiliates. These payments by the General Partner and its affiliates were designed to allow USNG the ability to commence the public offering of its units. USNG now directly pays certain of these fees and expenses. The General Partner will continue to pay other fees and expenses, as set forth in the LP Agreement. If the General Partner and USNG are unable to raise sufficient funds to cover their expenses or locate any other source of funding, USNG may be forced to terminate and investors may lose all or part of their investment. - 51 - - Table of Contents USNG may incur higher fees and expenses upon renewing existing or entering into new contractual relationships. The clearing arrangements between the clearing brokers and USNG generally are terminable by the clearing brokers once the clearing broker has given USNG notice. Upon termination, the General Partner may be required to renegotiate or make other arrangements for obtaining similar services if USNG intends to continue trading in Futures Contracts or Other Natural Gas-Related Investments at its present level of capacity. The services of any clearing broker may not be available, or even if available, these services may not be available on the terms as favorable as those of the expired or terminated clearing arrangements. USNG may miss certain trading opportunities because it will not receive the benefit of the expertise of independent trading advisors. The General Partner does not employ trading advisors for USNG; however, it reserves the right to employ them in the future. The only advisor to USNG is the General Partner. A lack of independent trading advisors may be disadvantageous to USNG because it will not receive the benefit of a trading advisor’s expertise. An unanticipated number of redemption requests during a short period of time could have an adverse effect on the NAV of USNG. If a substantial number of requests for redemption of Redemption Baskets are received by USNG during a relatively short period of time, USNG may not be able to satisfy the requests from USNG’s assets not committed to trading. As a consequence, it could be necessary to liquidate positions in USNG’s trading positions before the time that the trading strategies would otherwise dictate liquidation. The financial markets are currently in a period of disruption and recession and USNG does not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Currently and throughout 2008, the financial markets have experienced very difficult conditions and volatility as well as significant adverse trends. The deteriorating conditions in these markets have resulted in a decrease in availability of corporate credit and liquidity and have led indirectly to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of major financial institutions and have contributed to further consolidation within the financial services industry. A continued recession or a depression could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of USNG’s service providers and Authorized Purchasers which would impact the ability of the General Partner to achieve USNG’s investment objective. The failure or bankruptcy of a clearing broker could result in a substantial loss of USNG’s assets; the clearing broker could be subject to proceedings that impair its ability to execute USNG’s trades. Under CFTC regulations, a clearing broker maintains customers’ assets in a bulk segregated account. If a clearing broker fails to do so, or is unable to satisfy a substantial deficit in a customer account, its other customers may be subject to risk of a substantial loss of their funds in the event of that clearing broker’s bankruptcy. In that event, the clearing broker’s customers, such as USNG, are entitled to recover, even in respect of property specifically traceable to them, only a proportional share of all property available for distribution to all of that clearing broker’s customers. The bankruptcy of a clearing broker could result in the complete loss of USNG’s assets posted with the clearing broker; though, the vast majority of USNG’s assets are held in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents with USNG’s custodian and would not be impacted by the bankruptcy of a clearing broker. USNG also may be subject to the risk of the failure of, or delay in performance by, any exchanges and markets and their clearing organizations, if any, on which commodity interest contracts are traded. From time to time, the clearing brokers may be subject to legal or regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their business. A clearing broker’s involvement in costly or time-consuming legal proceedings may divert financial resources or personnel away from the clearing broker’s trading operations, which could impair the clearing broker’s ability to successfully execute and clear USNG’s trades. - 52 - - Table of Contents The failure or insolvency of USNG’s custodian could result in a substantial loss of USNG’s assets. As noted above, the vast majority of USNG’s assets are held in Treasuries, cash and/or cash equivalents with USNG’s custodian. The insolvency of the custodian could result in a complete loss of USNG’s assets held by that custodian, which, at any given time, would likely comprise a substantial portion of USNG’s total assets. Third parties may infringe upon or otherwise violate intellectual property rights or assert that the General Partner has infringed or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights, which may result in significant costs and diverted attention. Third parties may utilize USNG’s intellectual property or technology, including the use of its business methods, trademarks and trading program software, without permission. The General Partner has a patent pending for USNG’s business method and it is registering its trademarks. USNG does not currently have any proprietary software. However, if it obtains proprietary software in the future, then any unauthorized use of USNG’s proprietary software and other technology could also adversely affect its competitive advantage. USNG may have difficulty monitoring unauthorized uses of its patents, trademarks, proprietary software and other technology. Also, third parties may independently develop business methods, trademarks or proprietary software and other technology similar to that of the General Partner or claim that the General Partner has violated their intellectual property rights, including their copyrights, trademark rights, trade names, trade secrets and patent rights. As a result, the General Partner may have to litigate in the future to protect its trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights, defend itself against claims that it has infringed or otherwise violated other parties’ rights, or defend itself against claims that its rights are invalid. Any litigation of this type, even if the General Partner is successful and regardless of the merits, may result in significant costs, divert its resources from USNG, or require it to change its proprietary software and other technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. The success of USNG depends on the ability of the General Partner to accurately implement trading systems, and any failure to do so could subject USNG to losses on such transactions. The General Partner uses mathematical formulas built into a generally available spreadsheet program to decide whether it should buy or sell Natural Gas Interests each day. Specifically, the General Partner uses the spreadsheet to make mathematical calculations and to monitor positions in Natural Gas Interests and Treasuries and correlations to the Benchmark Futures Contract. The General Partner must accurately process the spreadsheets’ outputs and execute the transactions called for by the formulas. In addition, USNG relies on the General Partner to properly operate and maintain its computer and communications systems. Execution of the formulas and operation of the systems are subject to human error. Any failure, inaccuracy or delay in implementing any of the formulas or systems and executing USNG’s transactions could impair its ability to achieve USNG’s investment objective. It could also result in decisions to undertake transactions based on inaccurate or incomplete information. This could cause substantial losses on transactions. USNG may experience substantial losses on transactions if the computer or communications system fails. USNG’s trading activities, including its risk management, depend on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them. Extraordinary transaction volume, hardware or software failure, power or telecommunications failure, a natural disaster or other catastrophe could cause the computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. Any significant degradation or failure of the systems that the General Partner uses to gather and analyze information, enter orders, process data, monitor risk levels and otherwise engage in trading activities may result in substantial losses on transactions, liability to other parties, lost profit opportunities, damages to the General Partner’s and USNG’s reputations, increased operational expenses and diversion of technical resources. If the computer and communications systems are not upgraded, as needed, USNG’s financial condition could be harmed. The development of complex computer and communications systems and new technologies may render the existing computer and communications systems supporting USNG’s trading activities obsolete. In addition, these computer and communications systems must be compatible with those of third parties, such as the systems of exchanges, clearing brokers and the executing brokers. As a result, if these third parties upgrade their systems, the General Partner will need to make corresponding upgrades to continue effectively its trading activities. USNG’s future success will depend on USNG’s ability to respond to changing technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis. - 53 - - Table of Contents USNG depends on the reliable performance of the computer and communications systems of third parties, such as brokers and futures exchanges, and may experience substantial losses on transactions if they fail. USNG depends on the proper and timely function of complex computer and communications systems maintained and operated by the futures exchanges, brokers and other data providers that the General Partner uses to conduct trading activities. Failure or inadequate performance of any of these systems could adversely affect the General Partner’s ability to complete transactions, including its ability to close out positions, and result in lost profit opportunities and significant losses on commodity interest transactions. This could have a material adverse effect on revenues and materially reduce USNG’s available capital. For example, unavailability of price quotations from third parties may make it difficult or impossible for the General Partner to use its proprietary software that it relies upon to conduct its trading activities. Unavailability of records from brokerage firms may make it difficult or impossible for the General Partner to accurately determine which transactions have been executed or the details, including price and time, of any transaction executed. This unavailability of information also may make it difficult or impossible for the General Partner to reconcile its records of transactions with those of another party or to accomplish settlement of executed transactions. The occurrence of a terrorist attack, or the outbreak, continuation or expansion of war or other hostilities could disrupt USNG’s trading activity and materially affect USNG’s profitability. The operations of USNG, the exchanges, brokers and counterparties with which USNG does business, and the markets in which USNG does business could be severely disrupted in the event of a major terrorist attack or the outbreak, continuation or expansion of war or other hostilities. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the war in Iraq, global anti-terrorism initiatives and political unrest in the Middle East and Southeast Asia continue to fuel this concern. Risk of Leverage and Volatility If the General Partner permits USNG to become leveraged, investors could lose all or substantially all of their investment if USNG’s trading positions suddenly turn unprofitable. Commodity pools’ trading positions in futures contracts or other commodity interests are typically required to be secured by the deposit of margin funds that represent only a small percentage of a futures contract’s (or other commodity interests’) entire market value. This feature permits commodity pools to “leverage” their assets by purchasing or selling futures contracts (or other commodity interests) with an aggregate value in excess of the commodity pool’s assets. While this leverage can increase the pool’s profits, relatively small adverse movements in the price of the pool’s futures contracts can cause significant losses to the pool. While the General Partner has not and does not currently intend to leverage USNG’s assets, it is not prohibited from doing so under the LP Agreement or otherwise. The price of natural gas is volatile which could cause large fluctuations in the price of units. Movements in the price of natural gas may be the result of factors outside of the General Partner’s control and may not be anticipated by the General Partner. Among the factors that can cause volatility in the price of natural gas are: · worldwide or regional demand for energy, which is affected by economic conditions; · the domestic and foreign supply and inventories of oil and gas; - 54 - - Table of Contents · weather conditions, including abnormally mild winter or summer weather, and abnormally harsh winter or summer weather; · availability and adequacy of pipeline and other transportation facilities; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; · political conditions in gas or oil producing regions; · the ability of members of OPEC to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; and · the impact of energy conservation efforts. Since USNG’s commencement of operations on April 18, 2007, there has been tremendous volatility in the price of the Benchmark Futures Contract. For example, the price of the NYMEX futures contract on natural gas rose to a 2008 high of $13.694 on July 2, 2008 from a 2007 low of $5.192 on August 27, 2007. The General Partner anticipates that there will be continued volatility in the price of the NYMEX futures contract for natural gas and futures contracts for other petroleum-based commodities. Consequently, investors should know that this volatility can lead to a loss of all or substantially all of their investment in USNG. The impact of environmental and other governmental laws and regulations may affect the price of natural gas. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon natural gas and oil wells. Other laws have prevented exploration and drilling of natural gas in certain environmentally sensitive federal lands and waters. Several environmental laws that have a direct or an indirect impact on the price of natural gas include, but are not limited to, the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. The limited method for transporting and storing natural gas may cause the price of natural gas to increase. Natural gas is primarily transported and stored throughout the United States by way of pipeline and underground storage facilities. These systems may not be adequate to meet demand, especially in times of peak demand or in areas of the United States where gas service is already limited due to minimal pipeline and storage infrastructure. As a result of the limited method for transporting and storing natural gas, the price of natural gas may increase. Over-the-Counter Contract Risk Over-the-counter transactions are subject to little, if any, regulation. A portion of USNG’s assets may be used to trade over-the-counter natural gas interest contracts, such as forward contracts or swap or spot contracts. Over-the-counter contracts are typically traded on a principal-to-principal basis through dealer markets that are dominated by major money center and investment banks and other institutions and are essentially unregulated by the CFTC. Investors therefore do not receive the protection of CFTC regulation or the statutory scheme of the CEA in connection with this trading activity by USNG. The markets for over-the-counter contracts rely upon the integrity of market participants in lieu of the additional regulation imposed by the CFTC on participants in the futures markets. The lack of regulation in these markets could expose USNG in certain circumstances to significant losses in the event of trading abuses or financial failure by participants. - 55 - - Table of Contents USNG will be subject to credit risk with respect to counterparties to over-the-counter contracts entered into by USNG or held by special purpose or structured vehicles. USNG faces the risk of non-performance by the counterparties to the over-the-counter contracts. Unlike in futures contracts, the counterparty to these contracts is generally a single bank or other financial institution, rather than a clearing organization backed by a group of financial institutions. As a result, there will be greater counterparty credit risk in these transactions. A counterparty may not be able to meet its obligations to USNG, in which case USNG could suffer significant losses on these contracts. If a counterparty becomes bankrupt or otherwise fails to perform its obligations due to financial difficulties, USNG may experience significant delays in obtaining any recovery in a bankruptcy or other reorganization proceeding. USNG may obtain only limited recovery or may obtain no recovery in such circumstances. USNG may be subject to liquidity risk with respect to its over-the-counter contracts. Over-the-counter contracts may have terms that make them less marketable than Futures Contracts. Over-the-counter contracts are less marketable because they are not traded on an exchange, do not have uniform terms and conditions, and are entered into based upon the creditworthiness of the parties and the availability of credit support, such as collateral, and in general, they are not transferable without the consent of the counterparty. These conditions diminish the ability to realize the full value of such contracts. Risk of Trading in International Markets Trading in international markets would expose USNG to credit and regulatory risk. The General Partner invests primarily in Futures Contracts, a significant portion of which are traded on United States exchanges, including the NYMEX. However, a portion of USNG’s trades may take place on markets and exchanges outside the United States. Some non-U.S. markets present risks because they are not subject to the same degree of regulation as their U.S. counterparts. None of the CFTC, NFA, or any domestic exchange regulates activities of any foreign boards of trade or exchanges, including the execution, delivery and clearing of transactions, nor has the power to compel enforcement of the rules of a foreign board of trade or exchange or of any applicable non-U.S. laws. Similarly, the rights of market participants, such as USNG, in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a non-U.S. market or broker are also likely to be more limited than in the case of U.S. markets or brokers. As a result, in these markets, USNG has less legal and regulatory protection than it does when it trades domestically. In some of these non-U.S. markets, the performance on a contract is the responsibility of the counterparty and is not backed by an exchange or clearing corporation and therefore exposes USNG to credit risk. Trading in non-U.S. markets also leaves USNG susceptible to swings in the value of the local currency against the U.S. dollar. Additionally, trading on non-U.S. exchanges is subject to the risks presented by exchange controls, expropriation, increased tax burdens and exposure to local economic declines and political instability. An adverse development with respect to any of these variables could reduce the profit or increase the loss earned on trades in the affected international markets. International trading activities subject USNG to foreign exchange risk. The price of any non-U.S. Futures Contract, option on any non-U.S. Futures Contract or other non-U.S. Natural Gas-Related Investment, and, therefore, the potential profit and loss on such contract, may be affected by any variance in the foreign exchange rate between the time the order is placed and the time it is liquidated, offset or exercised. As a result, changes in the value of the local currency relative to the U.S. dollar may cause losses to USNG even if the contract traded is profitable. USNG’s international trading could expose it to losses resulting from non-U.S. exchanges that are less developed or less reliable than United States exchanges. Some non-U.S. exchanges may be in a more developmental stage so that prior price histories may not be indicative of current price dynamics. In addition, USNG may not have the same access to certain positions on foreign trading exchanges as do local traders, and the historical market data on which the General Partner bases its strategies may not be as reliable or accessible as it is for U.S. exchanges. - 56 - - Table of Contents Tax Risk An investor’s tax liability may exceed the amount of distributions, if any, on its units. Cash or property will be distributed at the sole discretion of the General Partner. The General Partner has not and does not currently intend to make cash or other distributions with respect to units. Investors will be required to pay U.S. federal income tax and, in some cases, state, local, or foreign income tax, on their allocable share of USNG’s taxable income, without regard to whether they receive distributions or the amount of any distributions. Therefore, the tax liability of an investor with respect to its units may exceed the amount of cash or value of property (if any) distributed. An investor’s allocable share of taxable income or loss may differ from its economic income or loss on its units. Due to the application of the assumptions and conventions applied by USNG in making allocations for tax purposes and other factors, an investor’s allocable share of USNG’s income, gain, deduction or loss may be different than its economic profit or loss from its units for a taxable year. This difference could be temporary or permanent and, if permanent, could result in it being taxed on amounts in excess of its economic income. Items of income, gain, deduction, loss and credit with respect to units could be reallocated if the IRS does not accept the assumptions and conventions applied by USNG in allocating those items, with potential adverse consequences for an investor. The U.S. tax rules pertaining to partnerships are complex and their application to large, publicly traded partnerships such as USNG is in many respects uncertain. USNG applies certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with the intent of the applicable rules and to report taxable income, gains, deductions, losses and credits in a manner that properly reflects unitholders’ economic gains and losses. These assumptions and conventions may not fully comply with all aspects of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) and applicable Treasury Regulations, however, and it is possible that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will successfully challenge USNG’s allocation methods and require USNG to reallocate items of income, gain, deduction, loss or credit in a manner that adversely affects investors. If this occurs, investors may be required to file an amended tax return and to pay additional taxes plus deficiency interest. USNG could be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which may substantially reduce the value of the units. USNG has received an opinion of counsel that, under current U.S. federal income tax laws, USNG will be treated as a partnership that is not taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, provided that (i) at least 90 percent of USNG’s annual gross income consists of “qualifying income” as defined in the Code, (ii) USNG is organized and operated in accordance with its governing agreements and applicable law and (iii) USNG does not elect to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although the General Partner anticipates that USNG has satisfied and will continue to satisfy the “qualifying income” requirement for all of its taxable years, that result cannot be assured. USNG has not requested and will not request any ruling from the IRS with respect to its classification as a partnership not taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to successfully assert that USNG is taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes in any taxable year, rather than passing through its income, gains, losses and deductions proportionately to unitholders, USNG would be subject to tax on its net income for the year at corporate tax rates. In addition, although the General Partner does not currently intend to make distributions with respect to units, any distributions would be taxable to unitholders as dividend income. Taxation of USNG as a corporation could materially reduce the after-tax return on an investment in units and could substantially reduce the value of the units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 