Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this prospectus before deciding to invest or to continue holding your investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us or otherwise associated with an investment in our common stock. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. We have attempted to identify the major factors under the heading “Risk Factors” that could cause differences between actual and planned or expected results, and we have included these material risk factors. If any of the following risks actually happen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Risks Relating to Our Company We are at an early stage of production and have minimal operating history as an independent company. Our future revenues and profits are uncertain. We are a production-stage venture with minimal operating history as an independent company. We were incorporated in September 2006 and commenced operations in May 2007. Our principal asset, the Hycroft Mine, commenced commercial production by the end of 2009. There is no certainty that we will consistently produce revenue or consistently operate profitably or provide a return on investment in the future. If we are unable to consistently generate revenues or profits, investors might not be able to realize returns on their investment in our common stock or keep from losing their investment. The estimation of the ultimate recovery of gold and silver contained within the Hycroft heap leach pad inventory (and that of any future mines) is subject to variation, subjective, and requires the use of various techniques. Actual recoveries can be expected to vary from estimations. The Hycroft Mine utilizes the heap leach process to extract gold and silver from ore. The heap leach process is a process of extracting gold and silver by placing ore on an impermeable pad and applying a diluted cyanide solution that dissolves a portion of the contained gold and silver, which are then recovered in metallurgical processes. We use several integrated steps in the process of extracting gold and silver to estimate the metal content of ore placed on the leach pad. Allied Nevada has limited experience with this process. Although we refine our estimates as appropriate at each step in the process, the final amounts are not determined until a third-party smelter converts the doré and determines final ounces of gold and silver available for sale. We then review this end result and reconcile it to the estimates we developed and used throughout the production process. Based on this review, we adjust our estimation procedures when appropriate. Due to the complexity of the estimation process and the number of steps involved, among other things, actual recoveries can vary from estimates, and the amount of the variation could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Each of these factors also applies to future development properties not yet in production. In the case of mines we may develop in the future, we will not have the benefit of actual experience in our estimates with respect to those mines, and there is a greater likelihood that the actual results will vary from the estimates. In addition, development and expansion projects are subject to unexpected construction and start-up problems and delays. Reserve calculations are estimates only, subject to uncertainty due to factors including metal prices, inherent variability of the ore and recoverability of metal in the mining process. Reserve estimates may not be accurate. There is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of reserves and corresponding grades dedicated to future production. Until reserves are actually mined and processed, the quantity of ore and grades must be considered as an estimate only. In addition, the quantity of reserves and ore may vary depending on metal prices. Any material change in the quantity of reserves, mineralization, grade or stripping ratio may affect the economic viability of our properties. In addition, there can be no assurance that gold recoveries or other metal recoveries in small-scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production. 8 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to numerous governmental permits which are difficult to obtain and we may not be able to obtain or renew all of the permits we require, or such permits may not be timely obtained or renewed. In the ordinary course of business we are required to obtain and renew governmental permits for our operations, including operation and expansion of the Hycroft Mine. Obtaining or renewing the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving costly undertakings by Allied Nevada. The duration and success of our efforts to obtain and renew permits are contingent upon many variables not within our control including the interpretation of applicable requirements implemented by the permitting authority. We may not be able to obtain or renew permits that are necessary to our operations, or the cost to obtain or renew permits may exceed our estimates. Failure to comply with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations may result in injunctions, fines, suspension or revocation or permits and other penalties. There can be no assurance that we have been or will at all times be in full compliance with all such laws and regulations and with our environmental and health and safety permits or that we have all required permits. The costs and delays associated with compliance with these laws, regulations and permits and with the permitting process could stop us from proceeding with the operation or development of the Hycroft Mine or increase the costs of development or production and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may not achieve our production estimates. We prepare estimates of future production for our operations. We develop our estimates based on, among other things, mining experience, reserve estimates, assumptions regarding ground conditions and physical characteristics of ores (such as hardness and presence or absence of certain metallurgical characteristics) and estimated rates and costs of mining and processing. Our actual production may be lower than our production estimates. Each of these factors also applies to future development properties not yet in production and to the Hycroft Mine. In the case of mines we may develop in the future, we do not have the benefit of actual experience in our estimates, and there is a greater likelihood that the actual results will vary from the estimates. In addition, development and expansion projects are subject to unexpected construction and start-up problems and delays. We cannot be certain that our acquisition, exploration and evaluation activities will be commercially successful. Although we have recently attained commercial production at the Hycroft Mine, substantial expenditures are required to acquire existing gold properties, to establish ore reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. We cannot provide assurance that any gold reserves or mineralized material acquired or discovered will be in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations at other properties or that the funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. Whether income will continue to justify commercial operations at the Hycroft Mine depends on successful mining operations. Factors including costs, actual mineralization, consistency and reliability of ore grades and commodity prices affect successful project development. The reactivation and efficient operation of processing facilities, the existence of competent operational management and prudent financial administration, as well as the availability and reliability of appropriately skilled and experienced consultants also can affect successful project development which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. The price of gold is subject to fluctuations, which could adversely affect the realizable value of our assets and potential future results of operations and cash flow. Our principal assets are gold reserves and mineralized material. We intend to attempt to acquire additional properties containing gold reserves and mineralized material. The price that we pay to acquire these properties will be, in large part, influenced by the price of gold at the time of the acquisition. Our potential future revenues are expected to be, in large part, derived from the mining and sale of gold from these properties or from the outright sale or joint venture of some of these properties. The value of these gold reserves and mineralized material, and the value of any potential gold production therefrom, will vary in proportion to variations in gold prices. The price of gold has fluctuated widely, and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, international, economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, central bank activities, interest rates, global or regional consumption patterns, world supply of gold and speculative activities. The effect of these factors on the price of gold, and therefore the economic viability of any of our projects, cannot accurately be predicted. Any drop in the price of gold would adversely affect our asset values, cash flows, potential revenues and profits. Mining, exploration, development and operating activities are inherently hazardous, and if we incur material leases or liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage, our financial position could be materially and adversely affected. Mineral exploration, development, and operating a mine involves many risks that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations in which we have direct or indirect interests will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of gold and other metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to property and possible environmental damage. The nature of these risks is such that liabilities might exceed any liability insurance policy limits. It is also possible that the liabilities and hazards might not be insurable, or, that we could elect not to insure Allied Nevada against such liabilities due to high premium costs or other reasons, in which event, we could incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 9 Table of Contents We may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms. The exploration and development of our development properties will require significant capital investment to achieve commercial production. We may have to raise additional funds from external sources in order to maintain and advance our existing property positions and to acquire new gold projects. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available at all or on acceptable terms and, if additional financing is not available to us, we may have to substantially reduce or cease operations. We face intense competition in the mining industry. The mining industry is intensely competitive in all of its phases. As a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies with substantial capabilities and with greater financial and technical resources than ours, we may be unable to acquire additional attractive mining claims or financing on terms we consider acceptable. This, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition and our future results of operations. We also compete with other mining companies in the recruitment and retention of qualified managerial and technical employees. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain qualified employees, our exploration and development programs may be slowed down or suspended. In addition, we compete with other gold companies for capital. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital, our exploration and development programs may be jeopardized or we may not be able to acquire, develop or operate gold projects. We may depend on outside sources to place our mineral deposit properties into production. Our ability to place our properties into production may be dependent upon using the services of appropriately experienced personnel or contractors and purchasing additional equipment, or entering into agreements with other major resource companies that can provide such expertise or equipment. There can be no assurance that we will have available to us the necessary expertise or equipment when and if we place our mineral deposit properties into production. If we are unable to successfully retain such expertise and equipment, our development and growth could be significantly curtailed. Our exploration and development operations are subject to environmental regulations, which could result in the incurrence of additional costs and operational delays. All phases of our operations are subject to environmental regulation. Environmental legislation is evolving in some jurisdictions in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect our projects. We will be subject to environmental regulations with respect to our properties in Nevada, under applicable federal and state laws and regulations. Production at our Hycroft mine involves the use of sodium cyanide which is a toxic material. Should sodium cyanide leak or otherwise be discharged from the containment system then Allied may become subject to liability for cleanup work that may not be insured. While appropriate steps will be taken to prevent discharges of pollutants into the ground water and the environment, Allied Nevada may become subject to liability for hazards that it may not be insured against. Our properties in Nevada occupy private and public lands. The public lands include unpatented mining claims on lands administered by the BLM Nevada State Office. These claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the state of Nevada. U.S. Federal Laws Under the U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, mining companies may incur costs for generating, transporting, treating, storing, or disposing of hazardous waste, as well as for closure and post-closure maintenance once they have completed mining activities on a property. Our mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants, from stationary equipment, storage facilities, and the use of mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment which are subject to review, monitoring and/or control requirements under the Federal Clean Air Act and state air quality laws. Permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or create additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the rules. The U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA) imposes strict joint and several liability on parties associated with releases or threats of releases of hazardous substances. The groups who could be found liable include, among others, the current owners and operators of facilities which release hazardous substances into the environment and past owners and operators of properties who owned such properties at the time the disposal of the hazardous substances occurred. This liability could include the cost of removal or remediation of the release and damages for injury to the surrounding property. We cannot predict the potential for future CERCLA liability with respect to our properties. Nevada Laws At the state level, mining operations in Nevada are also regulated by the Nevada Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Protection. Nevada state law requires the Hycroft Mine to hold Nevada Water Pollution Control 10 Table of Contents Permits, which dictate operating controls and closure and post-closure requirements directed at protecting surface and ground water. In addition, we are required to hold Nevada Reclamation Permits required under NRS 519A.010 through 519A.170. These permits mandate concurrent and post-mining reclamation of mines and require the posting of reclamation bonds sufficient to guarantee the cost of mine reclamation. Other Nevada regulations govern operating and design standards for the construction and operation of any source of air contamination and landfill operations. Any changes to these laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and results of operations by, for example, required changes to operating constraints, technical criteria, fees or surety requirements. Legislation has been proposed that would significantly affect the mining industry. Members of the U.S. Congress have repeatedly introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the Mining Law of 1872. If enacted, such legislation could change the cost of holding unpatented mining claims and could significantly impact our ability to develop mineralized material on unpatented mining claims. Such bills have proposed, among other things, to either eliminate or greatly limit the right to a mineral patent and to impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims. Although it is impossible to predict at this point what any legislated royalties might be, enactment could adversely affect the potential for development of such mining claims and the economics of existing operating mines on federal unpatented mining claims. Passage of such legislation could adversely affect our financial performance. Increased costs could affect our financial condition. We anticipate that costs at the Hycroft Mine, as well as other properties that we may explore or develop, will frequently be subject to variation from one year to the next due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities such as fuel and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production at certain operations less profitable. A material increase in costs at any significant location could have a significant effect on our profitability. The global financial crisis may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related instability in the global financial system has had, and may continue to have, an impact on our business and our financial condition. We may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The credit crisis could have an impact on any potential lenders or on our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the domestic capital markets and the economy generally. The stress experienced by domestic capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 has continued and substantially increased in both 2008 and 2009. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil and gas prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and fears of a possible recession. In addition, the fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of extreme volatility which has negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. Initially, the concerns on the part of market participants were focused on the subprime segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, these concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of mortgage-and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade, the U.S. and international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors. As a result, capital markets have experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probabilities of default. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us because our liquidity and ability to fund our capital expenditures is dependent in part upon our bank borrowings and access to the public capital markets. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. Factors such as business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower corporate earnings and lower business investment, our operations could be negatively impacted. Purchasers of our gold production may delay or be unable to make timely payments to us. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current mortgage crisis has also raised the possibility of future legislative and regulatory actions in addition to the recent enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) that could further impact our business. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed the EESA into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. The Federal Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility currently being experienced. Such continued volatility could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out our mining exploration and development operations. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to establish and develop our business. Our development in the future will be highly dependent on the efforts of key management employees, namely, Robert Buchan, our Executive Chairman, Scott Caldwell, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Hal Kirby, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and other key employees that we hire in the future. Although we have entered into employment agreements with key employees as determined by Allied Nevada, we do not have and currently have no plans to obtain key man insurance with respect to any of our key employees. As well, we will need to recruit and retain other qualified managerial and technical employees to build and maintain our operations. If we are unable to successfully recruit and retain such persons, our development and growth could be significantly curtailed. Our lack of operating experience may cause us difficulty in managing our growth. We commenced operations on May 10, 2007 as an independent entity and are establishing operating procedures for evaluating, acquiring and developing properties, and negotiating, establishing and maintaining strategic relationships. Our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to improve and expand our management and our operational and financial systems and controls. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. In addition, if rapid growth occurs, it may strain our operational, managerial and financial resources. There are uncertainties as to title matters in the mining industry. Any defects in such title could cause us to lose our rights in mineral properties and jeopardize our business operations. Our U.S. mineral properties consist of private mineral rights, leases covering state and private lands, leases of patented mining claims, and unpatented mining claims. Many of our mining properties in the U.S. are unpatented mining claims to which we have only possessory title. Because title to unpatented mining claims is subject to inherent uncertainties, it is difficult to determine conclusively ownership of such claims. These uncertainties relate to such things as sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper posting and marking of boundaries and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from descriptions of record. Since a substantial portion of all mineral exploration, development and mining in the U.S. now occurs on unpatented mining claims, this uncertainty is inherent in the mining industry. The present status of our unpatented mining claims located on public lands allows us the exclusive right to mine and remove valuable minerals, such as precious and base metals. We also are allowed to use the surface of the land solely for purposes related to mining and processing the mineral-bearing ores. However, legal ownership of the land remains with the U.S. We remain at risk that the mining claims may be forfeited either to the U.S. or to rival private claimants due to failure to comply with statutory requirements. There may be challenges to title to the mineral properties in which we hold a material interest. If there are title defects with respect to any properties, we might be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert our management’s time from ongoing exploration and development programs. 12 Table of Contents Our principal stockholders will be able to exert significant influence over matters submitted to stockholders for approval, which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control or result in the entrenchment of management or the board of directors, possibly conflicting with the interests of our other stockholders. Carl and Janet Pescio own approximately 10.0% of the issued and outstanding shares of Allied Nevada. In addition to being a major stockholder, Mr. Pescio is a director of Allied Nevada. Because of the Pescios’ major shareholding and Mr. Pescio’s position on the Allied Nevada Board, the Pescios could exert significant influence in determining the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval and otherwise control our business. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or entrenching our management or the board of directors, which could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders and, consequently, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Some of our directors may have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. Some of our directors are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies, or may be involved in related pursuits that could present conflicts of interest with their roles at Allied Nevada. These associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. In the event that any such conflict of interest arises, a director who has such a conflict is required to disclose the conflict to a meeting of the directors of the Company in question and to abstain from voting for or against approval of any matter in which such director may have a conflict. In appropriate cases, we will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may have a conflict. We are dependent on third parties that are responsible for exploration and development on some of our properties. Our success may be dependent on the efforts and expertise of third parties with whom we have contracted. Certain properties in which Allied Nevada holds interests are subject to third party contracts. Third parties are responsible for exploration and discovery with respect to certain of Allied Nevada’s mineral properties and related assets. Such third parties are not under Allied Nevada’s control or direction. We are dependent on such third parties for accurate information with respect to our mining properties and related assets and the progress and development of such properties and assets. The third parties control the time of exploration and, if warranted, the development of certain of Allied Nevada’s mining properties and related assets. A third party may be in default of its agreement with Allied Nevada, without our knowledge, which may put the property and related assets at risk. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our common stock has limited trading history and the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. Our common stock began trading in May 2007 and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for Allied Nevada common stock will be sustained in the future. We cannot predict the prices at which Allied Nevada common stock may trade. The market price of the common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond the control of Allied Nevada including, but not limited to, fluctuations in the price of gold; announcements by us or competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; and overall market fluctuations and general economic conditions. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Investors may be unable to accurately value our common stock. Investors often value companies based on the stock prices and results of operations of other comparable companies. Currently, we do not believe another public gold exploration company exists that is directly comparable to our size and scale. Further, the Pescios’ assets had previously been privately held. Prospective investors, therefore, have limited historical information about certain of the properties held by Allied Nevada upon which to base an evaluation of Allied Nevada’s performance and prospects and an investment in our common stock. As such, investors may find it difficult to accurately value our common stock. Future sales of our common stock in the public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public or private markets, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. As of March 2, 2010, 73,887,000 shares of our common stock were outstanding. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our shares for future sale, will have on the trading price of our common stock. Allied Nevada may be considered a “foreign investment entity” which may have adverse Canadian tax consequences for its Canadian investors. Under proposed legislation contained in former Bill C-10, amendments to Canadian tax rules were proposed by the Minister of Finance (Canada) regarding the taxation of certain interests in non-resident entities that are “foreign investment entities” (“FIE”) to be generally applicable for taxation years commencing after 2006 (the “FIE Proposals”). Parliament was dissolved on September 7, 2008, before the FIE Proposals were enacted. As part of the January 27, 2009 Federal Budget, the Minister of Finance (Canada) announced that the government would be reviewing the FIE Proposals and submissions made to the government thereon before proceeding with any amendments regarding the taxation of FIE. There can be no assurance that the FIE Proposals will ultimately be enacted in the form set out in former Bill C-10, or at all. The FIE Proposals are exceedingly complex and their application is not clear in certain circumstances. In general terms, the FIE Proposals would apply to require a holder (that is not an “exempt taxpayer”) that 13 Table of Contents holds a “participating interest” (that is not an “exempt interest”) in a FIE to include in income for each taxation year an amount of income or gains computed in accordance with the FIE Proposals, regardless of whether the holder actually receives any income or realizes any gains. For purposes of the FIE Proposals, the Allied Nevada shares would constitute a “participating interest” in the Company. If the Company is a FIE, a holder of an Allied Nevada share, unless the share is an “exempt interest” to such holder, would be required to include in income for that year an amount determined, in general terms, by applying a prescribed interest rate to the holder’s “designated cost” of the Allied Nevada share at the end of each month ending in the holder’s taxation year, unless the holder makes a valid election to use either the “mark-to-market” method or the “accrual” method. In certain limited circumstances, where a holder of Allied Nevada shares makes a valid election to use the “market-to-market” method, such holder will be required to include in income for that year any gains or losses accrued on the Allied Nevada shares for the year calculated using Canadian tax rules. Where a holder of Allied Nevada shares makes a valid election to use the “accrual” method, such holder will be required to include in income for that year the holder’s proportionate share of Allied Nevada’s income (or loss) for the year calculated using Canadian tax rules. The holder must include in income the amount so determined notwithstanding that the holder may not have received any corresponding cash distribution from the Company. A prospective holder of Allied Nevada shares should consult their own tax advisors with respect to the tax consequences of the FIE Proposals to such holder. To the extent that changes are made to the specific legislation finally implementing the FIE Proposals such changes could result in the Canadian federal income tax considerations described herein being materially different in certain respects. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain all of our earnings for the foreseeable future to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. Our Board of Directors retains the discretion to change this policy. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could make a third party acquisition of the Company difficult. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that shareholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock and the ability of our board of directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. Collectively, these provisions could make a third party acquisition of the Company difficult or could discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 