Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this Form 10-K before deciding to invest or to continue holding your investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us or otherwise associated with an investment in our common stock. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. We have attempted to identify the major factors that could cause differences between actual and planned or expected results, and we have 6 Table of Contents included these material risk factors. If any of the following risks actually happen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. See “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” above. The market prices of gold and silver are volatile. Low gold and silver prices could result in decreased revenues, decreased net income or losses and decreased cash flows, and may negatively affect our business. Gold and silver are commodities. Their prices fluctuate and are affected by many factors beyond our control, including interest rates, expectations regarding inflation, speculation, currency values, central bank activities, governmental decisions regarding the disposal of precious metals stockpiles, global and regional demand and production, political and economic conditions and other factors. The prices of gold and silver on the London Bullion Market on December 31, 2010 were $1,410.25 per ounce for gold and $30.65 per ounce for silver. The prices of gold and silver may decline in the future. Any decline in our realized gold or silver price adversely impacts our revenues, net income and cash flows, particularly in light of our strategy of not engaging in hedging transactions with respect to gold. In addition, sustained lower gold or silver prices can: • reduce revenues further through production declines due to cessation of the mining of deposits, or portions of deposits, that have become uneconomic at the then-prevailing gold or silver price; • reduce or eliminate the profit that we currently expect from ore stockpiles and ore on leach pads; • halt or delay the development of new projects; • cause us to recognize an impairment to the carrying values of mineral properties; • reduce funds available for exploration with the result that depleted reserves may not be replaced; and • reduce existing reserves by removing ores from reserves that can no longer be economically processed at prevailing prices. The estimation of the ultimate recovery of gold and silver contained within the Hycroft heap leach pad inventory (and that of any future heap leach mines, although based on standard industry sampling and estimating methods) is subjective. Actual recoveries can be expected to vary from estimations. The Hycroft Mine utilizes the heap leach process to extract gold and silver from ore. The heap leach process is a process of extracting gold and silver by placing ore on an impermeable pad and applying a diluted cyanide solution that dissolves a portion of the contained gold and silver, which are then recovered in metallurgical processes. We use several integrated steps in the process of extracting gold and silver to estimate the metal content of ore placed on the leach pad. Although we refine our estimates as appropriate at each step in the process, the final amounts are not determined until a third-party smelter converts the doré and determines final ounces of gold and silver available for sale. We then review this end result and reconcile it to the estimates we developed and used throughout the production process. Based on this review, we adjust our estimation procedures when appropriate. Due to the complexity of the estimation process and the number of steps involved, among other things, actual recoveries can vary from estimates, and the amount of the variation could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Each of these factors also applies to any future development of properties not yet in production. In the case of mines that we may develop in the future, we will not have the benefit of actual experience in our estimates with respect to those mines, and there is a greater likelihood that actual results will vary from the estimates. Reserve and resource calculations are estimates only, and are subject to uncertainty due to factors including metal prices, inherent variability of the ore and recoverability of metal in the mining process. The calculation of mineral reserves, mineral resources and grading are merely estimates and depend upon geological interpretation and statistical inferences or assumptions drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which may prove to be unpredictable. There is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of reserves, resources and corresponding grades. Until reserves and resources are actually mined and processed, the quantity of ore and grades must be considered as an estimate only. In addition, the quantity of reserves and resources and ore may vary depending on metal prices. Any material change in the quantity of reserves, resources, mineralization, grade or stripping ratio may affect the economic viability of our properties. In addition, there can be no assurance that gold recoveries or other metal recoveries in small-scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production. Compliance with current and future government regulations may cause us to incur significant costs. Our operations are subject to extensive federal and state legislation governing matters such as mine safety, occupational health, labor standards, prospecting, exploration, production, exports, toxic substances, explosives, management of natural resources, price controls, land use, water use, air emissions, waste disposal, environmental review and taxes. Compliance with this and other legislation could require us to make significant capital outlays. The enactment of new legislation or more stringent enforcement of 7 Table of Contents current legislation may increase costs, which could have a negative effect on our financial position. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to adapt to these regulatory developments on a timely or cost-effective basis. Violations of these laws, regulations and other regulatory requirements could lead to substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions, including possible shut-downs of the Hycroft Mine or future operations, as applicable. Our operations are subject to numerous governmental permits that are difficult to obtain and we may not be able to obtain or renew all of the permits we require, or such permits may not be timely obtained or renewed. In the ordinary course of business we are required to obtain and renew governmental permits for our operations, including in connection with our mining and exploration plans at the Hycroft Mine and our exploration plan at Hasbrouck. Obtaining or renewing the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving costly undertakings by us. The duration and success of our efforts to obtain and renew permits are contingent upon many variables not within our control, including the interpretation of applicable requirements implemented by the permitting authority and intervention by third parties in any required environmental review. We may not be able to obtain or renew permits that are necessary to our operations on a timely basis or at all, and the cost to obtain or renew permits may exceed our estimates. Failure to comply with the terms of our permits may result in injunctions, fines, suspension or revocation of permits and other penalties. There can be no assurance that we have been or will at all times be in full compliance with all of the terms of our permits or that we have all required permits. The costs and delays associated with compliance with these permits and with the permitting process could stop us from proceeding with the operation or development of a property or increase the costs of development or production and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may not achieve our production estimates and our operating costs may be higher than our estimates. We prepare estimates of future production and operating costs for our operations. We develop our estimates based on, among other things, mining experience, reserve and resource estimates, assumptions regarding ground conditions and physical characteristics of ores (such as hardness and presence or absence of certain metallurgical characteristics) and estimated rates and costs of mining and processing. All of our estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Our actual production may be lower than our production estimates and our actual operating costs may be higher than our operating cost estimates. We cannot be certain that our future exploration and development activities will be commercially successful. Substantial expenditures are required to further explore our Hycroft and Hasbrouck properties, to establish reserves and resources through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal from the ore and, in the case of new properties or the expansion of our existing projects, to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. We cannot provide assurance that any reserves or resources discovered will be in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that the funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. A number of factors, including costs, actual mineralization, consistency and reliability of ore grades and commodity prices, affect successful project development. The reactivation and efficient operation of processing facilities, the existence of competent operational management and prudent financial administration, as well as the availability and reliability of appropriately skilled and experienced consultants also can affect successful project development. There can be no assurance that our exploration and development programs, including the advancement of the Hycroft oxide operation, the feasibility study for the Hycroft milling project and the preliminary economic assessment of Hasbrouck, will result in economically viable mining operations or yield new mineral reserves and resources. Cost estimates and timing of new projects are uncertain. The capital expenditures and time required to develop and explore our properties, including the Hycroft and Hasbrouck properties, are considerable and changes in costs, construction schedules or both, can affect project economics. There are a number of factors that can affect costs and construction schedules, including, among others: • availability of labor, power, transportation and infrastructure; • changes in input commodity prices and labor costs; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • availability and terms of financing; • changes in anticipated tonnage, grade and metallurgical characteristics of the ore to be mined and processed; • recovery rates of gold and other metals from the ore; • difficulty of estimating construction costs over a period of years; • delays in completing any environmental review or in obtaining environmental or other government permits; • weather and severe climate impacts; and • potential delays related to social and community issues. 8 Table of Contents The scoping study initially announced by us in April 2010 and subsequently updated in September 2010 relates to the economic potential of the sulfide mineralization at the Hycroft property and is not part of, and should be distinguished from, the current oxide heap leach mining operation. The scoping study is based solely on the other mineralized material (or measured and indicated sulfide resources as defined by NI 43-101) defined on the property. Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. Investors should be cautioned that the scoping study is very preliminary in nature and, accordingly, is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. A preliminary and/or a definitive feasibility study will be required to further evaluate project economics. We do not currently intend to use forward sale arrangements to protect against low commodity prices and, as a result, our operating results are exposed to the impact of any significant drop in commodity prices. We do not currently intend to enter into forward sales arrangements to reduce the risk of exposure to volatility in commodity prices. Accordingly, our future operations are exposed to the impact of any significant decrease in commodity prices. If such prices decrease significantly, we will realize reduced revenues. While it is not our current intention to enter into forward sales arrangements, we are not restricted from entering into forward sales arrangements at a future date. The hazards and uncertainties associated with mining pose operational and environmental risks that may not be covered by insurance and may increase our costs. Mining and processing operations involve many hazards and uncertainties, including, among others: environmental contamination; metallurgical and other processing problems; unusual and unexpected rock formations or water conditions; seismic activity; ground or slope failures or underground cave-ins; industrial accidents; fires; flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions or other acts of nature; organized labor disputes or work slow-downs; mechanical equipment failure and facility performance problems; and the availability of critical materials, equipment and skilled labor. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, our properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, increased production costs, asset write downs, monetary losses and legal liability. We cannot be certain that our insurance will cover all of the risks associated with mining and processing or that we will be able to maintain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums. We could also become subject to liability for hazards against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or commercial impracticality. Such events could result in a prolonged interruption in operations that would have a negative effect on our ability to generate revenues, profits and cash flow. Losses from such events may increase costs and decrease profitability. We may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms. The exploration and development of our properties, including the advancement of the Hycroft oxide operation, the feasibility study for the Hycroft milling project and the preliminary economic assessment of Hasbrouck, will require significant capital investment. Failure to obtain sufficient financing may result in the delay or indefinite postponement of exploration activity, development or production on any of our properties. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available at all or on terms we consider acceptable. We face intense competition in the mining industry. The mining industry is intensely competitive. As a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies with substantial capabilities and with greater financial and technical resources than ours, we may be unable to acquire additional attractive mining claims or financing on terms we consider acceptable. This, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. We also compete with other mining companies in the recruitment and retention of qualified managerial and technical employees. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain qualified employees, our exploration and development programs may be slowed down or suspended. Our exploration and development operations are subject to extensive environmental regulations, which could result in the incurrence of additional costs and operational delays. All phases of our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation. These environmental regulations require we obtain various operating approvals and licenses and also impose standards and controls relating to exploration, development and production activities. The regulatory environment in which we operate is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. New environmental laws and regulations or changes in existing environmental laws and regulations could have a negative effect on exploration activities, operations, production levels and methods of production. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental laws and regulations will not adversely affect our projects. 9 Table of Contents Our properties in Nevada occupy private and public lands and are subject to environmental regulation, under applicable Federal and state laws and regulations. Production at our Hycroft Mine involves the use of sodium cyanide, which is a toxic material. Should sodium cyanide leak or otherwise be discharged from the containment system, we may become subject to liability for cleanup work that may not be insured. U.S. Federal Laws The Comprehensive Environmental, Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), and comparable state statutes, impose strict, joint and several liability on current and former owners and operators of sites and on persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances found at such sites. It is not uncommon for the government to file claims requiring cleanup actions, demands for reimbursement for government-incurred cleanup costs, or natural resource damages, or for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances released into the environment. The Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and comparable state statutes, govern the disposal of solid waste and hazardous waste and authorize the imposition of substantial fines and penalties for noncompliance, as well as requirements for corrective actions. CERCLA, RCRA and comparable state statutes can impose liability for clean-up of sites and disposal of substances found on exploration, mining and processing sites long after activities on such sites have been completed. The Clean Air Act, as amended, restricts the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including mining and processing activities. Our mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants from stationary equipment, storage facilities and the use of mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment, which are subject to review, monitoring and/or control requirements under the Clean Air Act and state air quality laws. New facilities may be required to obtain permits before work can begin, and existing facilities may be required to incur capital costs in order to remain in compliance. In addition, permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or result in additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the rules. The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires federal agencies to integrate environmental considerations into their decision-making processes by evaluating the environmental impacts of their proposed actions, including issuance of permits to mining facilities such as Hycroft Mine, and assessing alternatives to those actions. If a proposed action could significantly affect the environment, the agency must prepare a detailed statement known as an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, other federal agencies, and any interested third parties will review and comment on the scoping of the EIS and the adequacy of and findings set forth in the draft and final EIS. This process can cause delays in issuance of required permits or result in changes to a project to mitigate its potential environmental impacts, which can in turn impact the economic feasibility of a proposed project. The Clean Water Act (CWA), and comparable state statutes, impose restrictions and controls on the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or an analogous state agency. The CWA regulates storm water mining facilities and requires a storm water discharge permit for certain activities. Such a permit requires the regulated facility to monitor and sample storm water run-off from its operations. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit discharges of dredged and fill material in wetlands and other waters of the United States unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. The CWA and comparable state statutes provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of pollutants and impose liability on parties responsible for those discharges for the costs of cleaning up any environmental damage caused by the release and for natural resource damages resulting from the release. The Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) and the Underground Injection Control (UIC) program promulgated thereunder, regulate the drilling and operation of subsurface injection wells. EPA directly administers the UIC program in some states and in others the responsibility for the program has been delegated to the state. The program requires that a permit be obtained before drilling a disposal or injection well. Violation of these regulations and/or contamination of groundwater by mining related activities may result in fines, penalties, and remediation costs, among other sanctions and liabilities under the SWDA and state laws. In addition, third party claims may be filed by landowners and other parties claiming damages for alternative water supplies, property damages, and bodily injury. Nevada Laws At the state level, mining operations in Nevada are also regulated by the Nevada Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Protection. Nevada state law requires the Hycroft Mine to hold Nevada Water Pollution Control Permits, which dictate operating controls and closure and post-closure requirements directed at protecting surface and ground water. In addition, we are required to hold Nevada Reclamation Permits. These permits mandate concurrent and post-mining reclamation of mines and require the posting of reclamation bonds sufficient to guarantee the cost of mine reclamation. We have set up a provision for our reclamation bond at the Hycroft Mine but this provision may not be adequate. If we are required to carry out unanticipated reclamation work, our financial position could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Other Nevada regulations govern operating and design standards for the construction and operation of any source of air contamination and landfill operations. Any changes to these laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and results of operations by, for example, requiring changes to operating constraints, technical criteria, fees or surety requirements. Legislation has been proposed that would significantly affect the mining industry. Members of the U.S. Congress have repeatedly introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the Mining Law of 1872. If enacted, such legislation could change the cost of holding unpatented mining claims and could significantly impact our ability to develop mineralized material on unpatented mining claims. Such bills have proposed, among other things, to either eliminate or greatly limit the right to a mineral patent and to impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims. Although we cannot predict what legislated royalties might be, the enactment of these proposed bills could adversely affect the potential for development of unpatented mining claims and the economics of existing operating mines on federal unpatented mining claims. Passage of such legislation could adversely affect our financial performance. Regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to various climate change interest groups and the potential impact of climate change. Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us, our venture partners and our suppliers, including costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. Any adopted future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Given the emotion, political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change and how it should be dealt with, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or other companies in our industry could harm our reputation. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. These may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities, water shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures. These impacts may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out our mining exploration and development operations. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to establish and develop our business. Our development in the future will be highly dependent on the efforts of key management employees, namely, Robert Buchan, our Executive Chairman, Scott Caldwell, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Hal Kirby, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and other key employees that we may hire in the future. Although we have entered into employment agreements with key employees, we do not have and currently have no plans to obtain key man insurance with respect to any of our key employees. As well, we will need to recruit and retain other qualified managerial and technical employees to build and maintain our operations. If we are unable to successfully recruit and retain such persons, our development and growth could be significantly curtailed. Our lack of operating experience may cause us difficulty in managing our growth. We commenced operations on May 10, 2007 as an independent entity and are establishing operating procedures for evaluating, acquiring and developing properties, and negotiating, establishing and maintaining strategic relationships. Our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to improve and expand our management and our operational and financial systems and controls. If the experience of current management is unable to manage growth effectively, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. In addition, if rapid growth occurs, it may strain our operational, managerial and financial resources. There are uncertainties as to title matters in the mining industry. Any defects in such title could cause us to lose our rights in mineral properties and jeopardize our business operations. Our mineral properties consist of private mineral rights, leases covering state and private lands, leases of patented mining claims and unpatented mining claims. Many of our mining properties in the United States are unpatented mining claims located on lands 11 Table of Contents administered by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM), Nevada State Office to which we have only possessory title. Because title to unpatented mining claims is subject to inherent uncertainties, it is difficult to determine conclusively ownership of such claims. These uncertainties relate to such things as sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper location and posting and marking of boundaries, and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from descriptions of record. Since a substantial portion of all mineral exploration, development and mining in the United States now occurs on unpatented mining claims, this uncertainty is inherent in the mining industry. The present status of our unpatented mining claims located on public lands allows us the right to mine and remove valuable minerals, such as precious and base metals, from the claims conditioned upon applicable environmental reviews and permitting programs. We also are allowed to use the surface of the land solely for purposes related to mining and processing the mineral-bearing ores. However, legal ownership of the land remains with the United States. We remain at risk that the mining claims may be forfeited either to the United States or to rival private claimants due to failure to comply with statutory requirements. Prior to 1993, a mining claim locator who was able to prove the discovery of valuable, locatable minerals on a mining claim, and to meet all other applicable federal and state requirements and procedures pertaining to the location and maintenance of federal unpatented mining claims, had the right to prosecute a patent application to secure fee title to the mining claim from the Federal government. The right to pursue a patent, however, has been subject to a moratorium since October 1993, through federal legislation restricting the BLM from accepting any new mineral patent applications. If we do not obtain fee title to our unpatented mining claims, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain compensation in connection with the forfeiture of such claims. There may be challenges to title to the mineral properties in which we hold a material interest. If there are title defects with respect to any properties, we might be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert our management’s time from ongoing exploration and development programs. Some of our directors may have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. Some of our directors are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies, or may be involved in related pursuits that could present conflicts of interest with their roles at Allied Nevada. In the event that any such conflict of interest arises, a director who has such a conflict is required to disclose the conflict at a meeting of the directors of the Company and to abstain from voting for or against approval of any matter in which such director may have a conflict. In appropriate cases, we will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which directors, or management, may have a conflict. Future sales of our common stock in the public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public or private markets, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. As of February 22, 2011, 88,999,553 shares of our common stock were outstanding. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, will have on the trading price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain all of our earnings for the foreseeable future to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. Our board of directors retains the discretion to change this policy. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could make a third party acquisition of the Company difficult. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock and the ability of our board of directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder approval. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. Collectively, these provisions could make a third party acquisition of the Company difficult or could discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. 12 Table of Contents Our gold and silver production may decline, reducing our revenues and negatively impacting our business. Our future gold and silver production may decline as a result of an exhaustion of reserves and possible closure of mines. It is our business strategy to conduct gold and silver exploratory activities at the Hycroft and Hasbrouck properties and to consider the acquisition of gold and silver mining properties and businesses or reserves that possess minable ore reserves and are expected to become operational in the near future. We can provide no assurance that our gold and silver production in the future will not decline. Accordingly, our revenues from the sale of gold and silver may decline, negatively affecting our results of operations. Our ability to find and acquire new mineral properties is uncertain. Accordingly, our prospects are uncertain for the future growth of our business. Because mines have limited lives based on proven and probable ore reserves, we are continually seeking to replace and expand our ore reserves. Identifying promising mining properties is difficult and speculative. Furthermore, we encounter strong competition from other mining companies in connection with the acquisition of properties producing or capable of producing gold and silver. Many of these companies have greater financial resources than we do. Consequently, we may be unable to replace and expand current ore reserves through the acquisition of new mining properties or interests therein on terms we consider acceptable. As a result, our revenues from the sale of gold and silver may decline, resulting in lower income and reduced growth. Environmental regulations could require us to make significant expenditures or expose us to potential liability. To the extent we may become subject to environmental liabilities, the payment of such liabilities or the costs that we may incur to remedy environmental pollution would reduce funds otherwise available to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to fully remedy an environmental problem, we might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy. The environmental standards that may ultimately be imposed at a mine site impact the cost of remediation and may exceed the financial accruals that have been made for such remediation. The potential exposure may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, governmental authorities and private parties may bring lawsuits based upon damage to property and injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our past and current operations, which could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, remediation costs, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions. Substantial costs and liabilities, including for restoring the environment after the closure of mines, are inherent in our operations. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that any such law, regulation, enforcement or private claim will not have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that have increased both our compliance costs and the risk of noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulated organizations, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, the NYSE Amex, and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many new requirements have been created in response to laws enacted by Congress, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. For example, on July 21, 2010, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act. Our efforts to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and other new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We may be adversely affected by challenges relating to slope stability. Our open-pit mines get deeper as we mine them, presenting certain geotechnical challenges including the possibility of slope failure. If we are required to decrease pit slope angles or provide additional road access to prevent such a failure, our stated reserves could be negatively affected. Further, hydrological conditions relating to pit slopes, renewal of material displaced by slope failures and increased stripping requirements could also negatively affect our stated reserves. We have taken actions in order to maintain slope stability, but we cannot assure that we will not have to take additional action in the future or that our actions taken to date will be sufficient. Unexpected failure or additional requirements to prevent slope failure may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition, as well as have the effect of diminishing our stated ore reserves. To the extent that we seek to expand our operations and increase our reserves through acquisitions, we may experience issues in executing acquisitions or integrating acquired operations. From time to time, we may examine opportunities to make selective acquisitions in order to expand our operations and reported reserves. The success of any acquisition would depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • identifying suitable candidates for acquisition and negotiating acceptable terms for any such acquisition; 13 Table of Contents • obtaining approval from regulatory authorities and potentially the Company’s shareholders; • maintaining our financial and strategic focus and avoiding distraction of management during the process of integrating the acquired business; and • implementing our standards, controls, procedures and policies at the acquired business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to conclude any acquisitions successfully, or that any acquisition will achieve the anticipated synergies or other positive results. Any material problems that we encounter in connection with such an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Joint ventures and other partnerships may expose us to risks. In the future, we may enter into joint ventures or other partnership arrangements with other parties in relation to the exploration, development and production of certain of the properties in which we have an interest. Joint ventures can often require unanimous approval of the parties to the joint venture or their representatives for certain fundamental decisions such as an increase or reduction of registered capital, merger, division, dissolution, amendments of constating documents, and the pledge of joint venture assets, which means that each joint venture party may have a veto right with respect to such decisions which could lead to a deadlock in the operations of the joint venture or partnership. Further, we may be unable to exert control over strategic decisions made in respect of such properties. Any failure of such other companies to meet their obligations to us or to third parties, or any disputes with respect to the parties’ respective rights and obligations, could have a material adverse effect on the joint ventures or their properties and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial performance, cash flows and the price of the common shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 