1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us or otherwise associated with an investment in our common stock. Additional risks not presently known to us or which our management currently considers immaterial may also adversely affect our business. We have attempted to identify the major factors that could cause differences between actual and planned or expected results, and have included the risk factors that we believe are material. If any of the following risks actually happen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to the Arrangement There is no existing market for our common stock, and a trading market that will provide holders with adequate liquidity may not develop for the common stock. In addition, once Allied Nevada common stock begins trading, the market price of its shares may fluctuate widely. There is currently no public market for Allied Nevada common stock and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for Allied Nevada common stock will develop after the Arrangement or be sustained in the future. We cannot predict the prices at which Allied Nevada common stock may trade after the Arrangement. The market price of the common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond the control of Allied Nevada including, but not limited to, fluctuations in the price of gold; announcements by us or competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; and overall market fluctuations and general economic conditions. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Investors may be unable to accurately value our common stock. Investors often value companies based on the stock prices and results of operations of other comparable companies. Currently, no public gold exploration company exists that is directly comparable to our size and scale. Further, the Pescios’ assets had previously been privately held. Prospective investors, therefore, have limited historical information about certain of the properties held by Allied Nevada upon which to base an evaluation of Allied Nevada’s performance and prospects and an investment in our common stock. As such, investors may find it difficult to accurately value our common stock, which may cause the common stock price to trade below Allied Nevada’s true value. Vista may sell our common stock on behalf of non-resident Vista shareholders to meet its Canadian withholding tax obligations. Vista may also sell shares of our common stock withheld to facilitate payment of taxes by Vista in connection with the Arrangement. These sales may negatively impact the trading price of Allied Nevada common stock. If Vista is deemed to have paid a dividend for Canadian tax purposes as a consequence of the Arrangement, it will hold back Allied Nevada common stock otherwise payable to Vista shareholders who are non-residents of Canada for purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada), as amended, and will sell these shares to fund Canadian withholding taxes. Vista may also sell shares of our common stock withheld to facilitate payment of taxes by Vista in connection with the Arrangement. Any such sales may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. See also “Risks Relating to our Company – Future sales of our common stock in the public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings” and see “Item 5. Market Price for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities – The Arrangement – Transaction Mechanics”. Risks Relating to Our Company We are at an early stage of development and have no operating history as an independent company. Our future revenues and profits are uncertain. We are an exploration-stage venture without operating history as an independent company. We were incorporated in September 2006 and we will commence operations with properties and other mineral assets formerly held by Vista and the Pescios. See “Item 1. Business – General Description of the Business of Allied Nevada”. None of these properties is currently producing gold in commercial quantities and there can be no assurance that these properties, or others that may be acquired in 12 Table of Contents the future, will produce gold in commercial quantities or otherwise generate operating earnings. Although our properties will include the Hycroft mine, operations at the Hycroft mine were suspended in December 1998, and the site was placed on care and maintenance and remains at this status today. Even if we re-commence mining activities at the Hycroft mine or commence development activity on other properties, we may continue to incur losses beyond the period of commencement of such activity. There is no certainty that we will produce revenue, operate profitably or provide a return on investment in the future. If we are unable to generate revenues or profits, investors might not be able to realize returns on their investment in our common stock. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to establish and develop our business. Our development in the future will be highly dependent on the efforts of key management employees, namely, Scott Caldwell (currently President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer) and other key employees that we hire in the future. Loss of any of these people could have a material adverse effect on Allied Nevada. Although we plan to enter into employment agreements with Mr. Caldwell, as well as other key employees as determined by Allied Nevada, we do not have and currently have no plans to obtain key man insurance with respect to any of our key employees. As well, Allied Nevada, as a new corporation, will need to recruit and retain other qualified managerial and technical employees to build and maintain our operations. If we are unable to successfully recruit and retain such persons, our development and growth could be significantly curtailed. We are dependent on third parties. Our success may be dependent on the efforts and expertise of third parties with whom we have contracted. A large number of the properties in which Allied Nevada holds interests are subject to third party contracts. Third parties are responsible for exploration and discovery with respect to certain of Allied Nevada’s mineral properties and related assets. Such third parties are not under Allied Nevada’s control or direction. We are dependent on such third parties for accurate information with respect to our mining properties and related assets and the progress and development of such properties and assets. The third parties control the time of exploration and, if warranted, the development of certain of Allied Nevada’s mining properties and related assets. A third party may be in default of its agreement with Allied Nevada, without our knowledge, which may put the property and related assets at risk. We will depend on outside sources to place our mineral deposit properties into production. Our ability to place our properties into production will be dependent upon using the services of appropriately experienced personnel or contractors and purchasing equipment, or entering into agreements with other major resource companies that can provide such expertise or equipment. There can be no assurance that we will have available to us the necessary expertise or equipment when and if we place our mineral deposit properties into production. Our lack of operating experience may cause us difficulty in managing our growth. As a newly-formed entity, Allied Nevada is establishing operating procedures for evaluating, acquiring and developing properties, and negotiating, establishing and maintaining strategic relationships. Our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to improve and expand our management and our operational and financial systems and controls. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. In addition, if rapid growth occurs, it may strain our operational, managerial and financial resources. If we fail to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our business may be adversely affected. As a new reporting company under the Exchange Act, we will be subject to certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This Act, and related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC and stock exchanges, affects corporate governance, securities disclosure, compliance practices, disclosure controls and procedures, and financial reporting and accounting systems. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, for example, requires companies subject to the reporting requirements of the United States securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of their internal controls over financial reporting. Beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2008, we will need to document and test our internal control procedures, our management will need to assess and report on our internal control over financial reporting and our independent accountants will need to issue an opinion on that assessment and the effectiveness of those controls. If we fail to comply with Section 404 when we are required to comply, or if we or our independent auditors identify issues in our compliance with requirements relating to internal controls, we may be prevented from providing the required financial information in a timely manner (which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock), prevent us from otherwise complying with the standards applicable to Allied Nevada as a public company and subject us to adverse regulatory consequences. 13 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that our acquisition, exploration and evaluation activities will be commercially successful. We currently have no properties that produce gold in commercial quantities. Substantial expenditures are required to acquire existing gold properties, to establish ore reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. We cannot assure you that any gold reserves or mineralized material acquired or discovered will be in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that the funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. The price of gold is subject to fluctuations, which could adversely affect the realizable value of our assets and potential future results of operations and cash flow. Our principal assets are gold reserves and mineralized material. We intend to attempt to acquire additional properties containing gold reserves and mineralized material. The price that we pay to acquire these properties will be, in large part, influenced by the price of gold at the time of the acquisition. Our potential future revenues are expected to be, in large part, derived from the mining and sale of gold from these properties or from the outright sale or joint venture of some of these properties. The value of these gold reserves and mineralized material, and the value of any potential gold production therefrom, will vary in proportion to variations in gold prices. The price of gold has fluctuated widely, and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, international, economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, central bank activities, interest rates, global or regional consumption patterns and speculative activities. The effect of these factors on the price of gold, and therefore the economic viability of any of our projects, cannot accurately be predicted. Any drop in the price of gold would adversely affect our asset values, cash flows, potential revenues and profits. Mining exploration, development and operating activities are inherently hazardous. Mineral exploration involves many risks that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations in which we have direct or indirect interests will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of gold and other metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to property and possible environmental damage. The nature of these risks is such that liabilities might exceed any liability insurance policy limits. It is also possible that the liabilities and hazards might not be insurable, or, that we could elect not to insure Allied Nevada against such liabilities due to high premium costs or other reasons, in which event, we could incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Reserve calculations are estimates only, subject to uncertainty due to factors including metal prices, inherent variability of the ore and recoverability of metal in the mining process. There is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of reserves and corresponding grades dedicated to future production. Until reserves are actually mined and processed, the quantity of ore and grades must be considered as an estimate only. In addition, the quantity of reserves and ore may vary depending on metal prices. Any material change in the quantity of reserves, mineralization, grade or stripping ratio may affect the economic viability of our properties. In addition, there can be no assurance that gold recoveries or other metal recoveries in small-scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production. We face intense competition in the mining industry. The mining industry is intensely competitive in all of its phases. As a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies with substantial capabilities and with greater financial and technical resources than ours, we may be unable to acquire additional attractive mining claims or financing on terms we consider acceptable. We also compete with other mining companies in the recruitment and retention of qualified managerial and technical employees. If we are unable to successfully compete for qualified employees, our exploration and development programs may be slowed down or suspended. We compete with other gold companies for capital. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital, our exploration and development programs may be jeopardized or we may not be able to acquire, develop or operate gold projects. We may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms. The exploration and development of our development properties, specifically the construction of mining facilities and commencement of mining operations, may require substantial additional financing. Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from each non-producing property. We will have to raise additional funds from external sources in order to maintain and advance our existing property positions and to acquire new gold projects. There can be no 14 Table of Contents assurance that additional financing will be available at all or on acceptable terms and, if additional financing is not available to us, we may have to substantially reduce or cease operations. Future sales of our common stock in the public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public or private markets, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. As of the Effective Time it is estimated that 39,500,000 Allied Nevada Shares will be outstanding on a fully diluted basis. Although the exact number of Allied Nevada Shares issuable to Vista under the Arrangement will not be determined until immediately prior to the Effective Date, based on a number of assumptions set out previously, we anticipate that 25,495,000 shares will have been issued to Vista Shareholders pursuant to the Arrangement in reliance on the exemption from registration under the Securities Act pursuant to Section 3(a)(10) thereof and will be freely transferable by persons other than affiliates of Allied Nevada or Vista without restriction or registration under the Securities Act and approximately 1,500,000 shares will have been retained by Vista to facilitate payment of taxes by Vista, and 12,000,000 shares will have been issued to the Pescios. The Allied Nevada Shares issued to the Pescios will upon issuance be “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act and may not be sold in the absence of registration under the Securities Act unless an exemption from registration is available, including an exemption contained in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We are obligated to register 35% of these shares, or 4,200,000, for resale on a registration statement on Form S-1. The remainder of the shares held by the Pescios or their transferees will remain restricted securities and accordingly will be subject to resale restrictions. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our shares for future sale, will have on the trading price of our common stock. Our principal stockholders will be able to exert significant influence over matters submitted to stockholders for approval, which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control or result in the entrenchment of management or the board of directors, possibly conflicting with the interests of our other stockholders. Upon completion of the Arrangement, the Pescios will own approximately 31% of the issued and outstanding shares of Allied Nevada. In addition to being a major stockholder, Mr. Pescio is a director of Allied Nevada and also has an understanding with Vista that he will nominate one person, in addition to himself, for election to the Allied Nevada Board prior to the Effective Date. Mr. Pescio has not exercised this right. Because of the Pescios’ major shareholding and Mr. Pescio’s position on the Allied Nevada Board as well as his possible nomination of another director, the Pescios could exert significant influence in determining the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval and otherwise control our business. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or entrenching our management or the board of directors, which could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders and, consequently, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Some of our directors may have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. Some of our current directors are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies, or may be involved in related pursuits that could present conflicts of interest with their roles at Allied Nevada. Robert Buchan is a director of bcMetals Corporation, Katanga Mining Limited and Endeavor Mining Capital Corp. W. Durand Eppler is CEO and a director of Coal International PLC, Augusta Resource Corporation and NEMI Northern Energy & Mining Inc. Terry M. Palmer is a director of Apex Silver Mines Limited. Michael B. Richings is President, CEO and a director of Vista and is a director of Zaruma Resources Inc., which holds interests in mining properties. A. Murray Sinclair is a director of General Minerals Corporation and Premier Gold Mines Limited. Carl Pescio is a director of Tornado Gold International Corp. As well, Mr. Pescio may pursue ventures with mining properties other than those held by Allied Nevada. As a condition to completion of the Arrangement, Mr. Pescio is required to enter into a non-competition agreement with Vista and Allied Nevada on terms satisfactory to all parties, acting reasonably. We have entered into non-competition and professional service agreements with Mr. Pescio. See “Item 1. Business – General Description of the Business of Allied Nevada — Employees”. These associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. In the event that any such conflict of interest arises, a director who has such a conflict is required to disclose the conflict to a meeting of the directors of the company in question and to abstain from voting for or against approval of any matter in which such director may have a conflict. In appropriate cases, we will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may have a conflict. 15 Table of Contents There may be challenges to our title to our mineral properties. There may be challenges to title to the mineral properties in which we hold a material interest. If there are title defects with respect to any properties, we might be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert our management’s time from ongoing exploration and development programs. Our exploration and development operations are subject to environmental regulations, which could result in incurrence of additional costs and operational delays. All phases of our operations are subject to environmental regulation. Environmental legislation is evolving in some countries or jurisdictions in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect our projects. We will be subject to environmental regulations with respect to our properties in Nevada, under applicable federal and state laws and regulations. Our properties in Nevada occupy private and public lands. The public lands include unpatented mining claims on lands administered by the BLM Nevada State Office. These claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the state of Nevada. U.S. Federal Laws The BLM requires that mining operations on lands subject to its regulation obtain an approved plan of operations subject to environmental impact evaluation under the U.S. National Environmental Policy Act. Any significant modifications to the plan of operations may require the completion of an environmental assessment or EIS prior to approval. Mining companies must post a bond or other surety to guarantee the cost of post-mining reclamation. These requirements could add significant additional cost and delays to any mining project Allied Nevada undertakes. Under the U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, mining companies may incur costs for generating, transporting, treating, storing, or disposing of hazardous waste, as well as for closure and post-closure maintenance once they have completed mining activities on a property. Our mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants, from stationary equipment, storage facilities, and the use of mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment which are subject to review, monitoring and/or control requirements under the Federal Clean Air Act and state air quality laws. Permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or create additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the rules. CERCLA imposes strict joint and several liability on parties associated with releases or threats of releases of hazardous substances. The groups who could be found liable include, among others, the current owners and operators of facilities which release hazardous substances into the environment and past owners and operators of properties who owned such properties at the time the disposal of the hazardous substances occurred. This liability could include the cost of removal or remediation of the release and damages for injury to the surrounding property. We cannot predict the potential for future CERCLA liability with respect to our properties. Nevada Laws At the state level, mining operations in Nevada are also regulated by the Nevada Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Protection. Nevada state law requires the Hycroft mine to hold Nevada Water Pollution Control Permits, which dictate operating controls and closure and post-closure requirements directed at protecting surface and ground water. In addition, we are required to hold Nevada Reclamation Permits required under NRS 519A.010 through 519A.170. These permits mandate concurrent and post-mining reclamation of mines and require the posting of reclamation bonds sufficient to guarantee the cost of mine reclamation. Other Nevada regulations govern operating and design standards for the construction and operation of any source of air contamination and landfill operations. Any changes to these laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and results of operations by, for example, required changes to operating constraints, technical criteria, fees or surety requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments This Item is not applicable to Allied Nevada because we are a new Exchange Act registrant and this Annual Report on Form 10-K is our first required periodic filing under the Exchange Act. 16 Table of Contents 