D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results are subject to conditions typically affecting the lodging industry. Our operating results are subject to conditions typically affecting the lodging industry, including the following: • changes in national, regional or local economic conditions; • severe weather conditions, natural disasters or travelers’ fears of exposure to serious contagious diseases; • competition from other hotels, the attractiveness of our hotels to customers, and our ability to maintain and increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers; • local market conditions such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, hotel rooms; • the quality and performance of managerial and other employees of our hotels; • increases in operating costs and expenses due to inflation and other factors; • the availability and cost of capital to allow us and our franchisees to fund construction and renovation of, and make other investments in, our hotels; • seasonality of the lodging business and occurrence of major national or regional events; and • the risk that leased properties may be subject to challenges as to their compliance with relevant government regulations or their compatibility with government planning and re-zoning. Changes in any of these conditions could adversely affect our occupancy rates, average daily rates and RevPAR or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to manage our expected expansion, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Since our inception, we have experienced substantial growth in our hotel network. We have increased the number of our hotels in operation in China from 5 in 2002 to 1,772 (with another 241 hotels contracted or under construction) as of December 31, 2012. We intend to continue to develop additional hotels in different geographic locations in China and increase our number of hotels in operation. In November 2010, we launched a new hotel brand for the midscale to upscale market, Yitel (or Heyi in Chinese). By the end of 2012 we had 7 Yitel hotels in operation and 4 other Yitel hotels contracted or under construction. Effective October 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition of a 100% ownership interest in Motel 168 International Holdings Limited, or Motel 168, and we have retained the Motel 168 brand. As of December 31, 2012, we had 334 hotels in operation under the Motel 168 brand and another 26 contracted or under construction. We plan to continue to open new hotels under each of these brands in the foreseeable future. Our expansion has placed, and will continue to place, substantial demands on our managerial, operational, technological and other resources. Our planned expansion will also require us to maintain the consistency of each of our products and the quality of our services to ensure that our brands do not suffer as a result of any deviations, whether actual or perceived, in the consistency of each of our products and the quality of our services. In order to manage and support our growth, we must continue to improve our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial and management controls, and recruit, train and retain qualified hotel management personnel as well as other administrative and sales and marketing personnel, particularly as we expand into new markets. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations, recruit and retain qualified personnel and integrate new hotels into our operations. Any failure to effectively and efficiently manage our expansion may materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. 5 Table of Contents Expansion into new geographic markets and addition of new hotel products for which we have limited operating experience and brand recognition may present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those that we currently encounter in existing markets for our hotels. In addition, our expansion within existing markets may adversely affect the financial performance of our existing hotels in those markets and, as a result, negatively affect our overall results of operations. Inability to anticipate the changing demands that expanding our operations will impose on our management and information and operational systems, or failure to quickly adapt our systems and procedures to the new markets, could result in revenue decline and increased expenses and otherwise harm our results of operations and financial condition. We have committed significant resources to the acquisition of Motel 168, and if we cannot successfully integrate Motel 168’s operations and personnel with our own, our results of operations and return on capital may be materially adversely affected. We acquired the Motel 168 hotel chain effective October 1, 2011. The addition of Motel 168’s hotels expanded our holding by an additional 297 hotels in operation, including 144 leased-and-operated hotels and 153 franchised-and-managed hotels, with about 47,099 rooms located in 85 cities across China. The base acquisition price was US$470.0 million, consisting of US$305.5 million in cash and 8,149,616 ordinary shares priced at US$40.37 per ADS or US$20.185 per ordinary share at the closing of the transaction. The cash portion was funded with cash on hand and a four-year term loan facility of US$240.0 million with an interest rate at 390 basis points over LIBOR. Following the acquisition, we spent approximately US$17.4 million through December 31, 2012 on renovating our Motel 168 hotels and implementing new marketing initiatives and operational best practices, and we expect that our expenditures for these purposes will total between $20 million and $25 million by the time major work under the integration plan is completed. The acquisition of Motel 168 exposes us to potential risks, including risks associated with unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing business and the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of the acquisition. Historically, Motel 168 did not consistently generate positive net income on a consolidated basis. As a consequence, the consolidation of Motel 168 with our financial results had a negative impact on our results of operations for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011. Despite the continued operational improvements during 2012, financial results of Motel 168 impacted our results of operations negatively on an annual basis in 2012, and the improvements were limited by the slowdown in the Chinese economy in 2013. Motel 168 may have a negative impact on our results of operations in 2013 without meaningful improvement in the economy and this could delay the achievement of our final integration targets. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities in the future, we may acquire additional businesses or assets that are complementary to our business. Difficulties encountered in the acquisition and integration process may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. We may not be able to comply with the financial covenants contained in the credit agreement relating to our secured loan facility, which would give the lenders under that facility certain rights to accelerate our obligation to repay the outstanding balance. Any involuntary acceleration of the loan would have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Furthermore, in the event of a default under the secured loan facility, including failure to comply with all financial covenants, the lenders could proceed against the collateral that we have granted to secure our indebtedness, which includes substantially all of our assets. In September 2011, we obtained a secured loan facility from a consortium of lenders in connection with our acquisition of Motel 168. As of the date of this annual report, the outstanding principal amount under the secured loan facility is US$117.0 million, which we are required to repay in two more installments on July 31, 2014 and September 15, 2015. The related credit agreement dated as of September 26, 2011 contains financial covenants relating to our business, including a maximum consolidated total debt to consolidated capitalization ratio, a minimum debt service coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio as of each quarter end and a maximum consolidated capital expenditures limit for each fiscal year. It also requires us to maintain certain cash balances in bank accounts outside of China, including cash balances in accounts pledged as security to the lenders to be maintained for the payment of interest and principal on the term loans. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Upon the occurrence of any default under the secured loan facility, including failure to comply with all financial covenants, the lenders could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable, or could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings up to the amount of our legally distributable earnings. If we cannot repay these amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure our indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our assets as collateral under the secured loan facility. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the loans under the secured loan facility and any other indebtedness that defaults as a result, or be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. 6 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that we will be able to comply with the covenants contained in the secured convertible loan facility in the future, and if we breach the covenants, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to obtain any amendments to or waivers of the covenants contained in the secured loan facility. In addition, any amendment to or waiver of the covenants may involve upfront fees, higher annual interest costs and other terms less favorable to us than those currently offered by the secured convertible loan facility. If the value of our brands or image diminishes, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our “Home Inn” and “Motel 168” brands are associated with cleanliness, convenience and comfort with consistent, high-quality service among value-conscious individual business and leisure travelers in China. The “Home Inn” brand tends to attract a higher proportion of business travelers, while “Motel 168” tends to cater more to younger leisure travelers. Our continued success in maintaining and enhancing our brands and image depends, to a large extent, on our ability to satisfy customer needs by further developing and maintaining our innovative and distinctive products and maintaining consistent quality of services across our hotel chain, as well as our ability to respond to competitive pressures. If we are unable to do so, our occupancy rates may decline, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. Our business may also be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be diminished by the operations of any of our hotels, whether due to unsatisfactory service, accidents and injuries or otherwise. Our brands are integral to our sales and marketing efforts. If our brands do not continue to be attractive to customers and if the value of our brands is diminished, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are not able to hire, train and retain qualified managerial and other employees for our hotel operations, our brand and our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our managerial and other employees manage our hotels and interact with our customers on a daily basis. They are critical to maintaining the quality and consistency of our services as well as our established brand and reputation. It is important for us to attract qualified managerial and other employees who have experience in lodging or other consumer-service industries and are committed to our “customer-first” approach. There may be a limited supply of such qualified individuals in some of the cities in China where we have operations and other cities into which we intend to expand. In addition, characteristics such as dedication are difficult to assess during the recruitment process. We must hire and train qualified managerial and other employees on a timely basis to keep pace with our growth while maintaining consistent quality of services across our hotels in various geographic locations. We must also provide continuous training to our managerial and other employees so that they are equipped with up-to-date knowledge of various aspects of our hotel operations and can meet our demand for high-quality services. If we fail to do so, the quality of our services may decrease in one or more of the markets where we operate, which in turn may have a material and adverse effect on our brand and our business. We may not be able to successfully identify and secure additional hotel properties. We plan to open more hotels in targeted markets to further grow our business. We may not be successful in identifying and leasing or franchising additional hotel properties at desirable locations and on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Some cities in China have undergone economic development and expansion for several decades while others are still in early stages of development. In more developed cities, it may be difficult to increase the number of hotels if we or our competitors already have substantial operations in such cities. In less developed cities, demand for our hotels may not increase as rapidly as we expect. Even if we are able to successfully identify and acquire new hotel properties via lease or franchise arrangements, new hotels may not generate the returns we expect. We also may incur costs in connection with evaluating hotel properties and negotiating with property owners, including properties that we are subsequently unable to lease or franchise. If we fail to successfully identify or compete for additional hotel properties, our ability to execute our growth strategy could be impaired and our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. The covenants contained in the credit agreement relating to our secured loan facility restrict our ability to expand our business. In September 2011, we obtained a secured loan facility from a syndicate of lenders in connection with our acquisition of Motel 168. As of the date of this annual report, the outstanding principal amount under the secured loan facility is US$117.0 million, which we are required to repay in two more installments on July 31, 2014 and September 15, 2015. The related credit agreement dated as of September 26, 2011 imposes certain limitations on our business expansion beyond our current projection absent consent from the lenders. In particular, before the loan facility is repaid, we may only acquire assets or equity interests of any ongoing business or invest in a non-controlled joint venture through any of our entities outside of China with proceeds raised from an equity issuance made specifically for that purpose, subject to certain exceptions. In addition, investments in non-controlled joint ventures through any of our entities in China are limited to a maximum of US$36 million in 2013 and US$44.25 million in 2014 or thereafter. The credit agreement also contains certain other restrictions on our ability to conduct mergers or corporate restructurings, dispose of assets, extend loans or guarantees or incur indebtedness. Furthermore, each year we are required under the credit agreement to cause our subsidiaries in China to declare and pay the maximum legally distributable earnings of the most recently ended calendar year as dividends to our entities outside of China to service the debt, except that we may maintain a cash balance of up to RMB500 million in China to continue on-going operation and expansion according to a prescribed budget and forecast. In 2012, we distributed RMB 336.4 million in onshore earnings to offshore subsidiaries pursuant to this requirement. Without lender consent to waivers or amendments, these restrictions and requirements may limit our ability to expand our business and prevent us from taking advantage of favorable growth opportunities. 7 Table of Contents We may need additional capital. To the extent permitted under the terms of our existing indebtedness, the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders, and the incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could restrict our operations. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flow from operations and the proceeds from our past capital markets fundraising activities, and undrawn bank credit facilities available to us will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, strategic acquisitions or other future developments, including any re-financing needs or any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities, to the extent permitted under the terms of our existing indebtedness. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot guarantee that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all, particularly in light of current global economic conditions, or that the operating and financing covenants in our existing indebtedness will allow us to raise the additional capital that we might need. We may not be able to develop hotel properties on a timely or cost-efficient basis, which may adversely affect our growth strategy and business. We develop almost all of our leased-and-operated hotels directly. Our involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including construction delays or cost overruns, which may result in increased project costs or forgone revenue. We may be unable to recover development costs we incur for projects that do not reach completion. Properties that we develop could become less attractive due to market saturation or oversupply, and as a result we may not be able to recover development costs at the expected rate, or at all. If we are unable to successfully manage our hotel development to minimize these risks, our growth strategy and business prospects may be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain our hotels’ good condition and attractive appearance, our hotel occupancy rates may decline. In order to maintain our hotels’ good condition and attractive appearance, our hotels require ongoing repairs, maintenance, renovations and other leasehold improvements, including periodic replacement of certain furniture, fixtures and equipment. If we and our franchisees do not make needed leasehold investments and improvements, our hotel occupancy rates may decline and we could lose market share. Our costs and expenses may remain constant or increase even if our revenues decline. A significant portion of our operating costs, including rent, is fixed. Accordingly, a decrease in our revenues could result in a disproportionately higher decrease in our earnings because our operating costs and expenses are unlikely to decrease proportionately. For example, the period during which China’s Spring Festival holiday occurs generally accounts for a lower portion of our annual revenues than other periods, but our expenses do not vary as significantly as changes in occupancy and revenues, since we need to continue to pay rent and salary, make regular repairs, maintenance and renovations and invest in other capital improvements throughout the year to maintain the attractiveness of our hotels. Our property development and renovation costs may increase as a result of increasing costs of materials. However, we have a limited ability to pass increased costs to customers through room rate increases. Therefore, our costs and expenses may remain constant or increase even if our revenues decline. In addition, our leased-and-operated hotels typically incur significant pre-opening costs during the conversion stage, and may incur losses during the ramp-up stage before revenues exceed operating costs, which are largely fixed. Should there be delays in conversion process or if the ramp-up is slower than expected, our financial performance can be materially and adversely impacted. Our effort in developing our new hotel brand, Yitel (or Heyi in Chinese), may divert management attention and resources from our existing business, and if the new product is not well received by the market, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses, and our overall financial performance and condition may be adversely affected. We currently operate seven hotels under the Yitel (or Heyi in Chinese) brand, which is a mid to upscale brand concept targeting individual business and leisure travelers who have a higher travel budget than the customers of economy hotels, but a lower travel budget than the customers of high star-rated hotels. We started the initiative to enter this market segment in late 2008, when we opened the first hotel under the H Hotel name. After efforts to refine the design concept of this product, service offering and other features and standards, we opened the second hotel in this segment under the Yitel name in September 2011. Subsequently, the H Hotel was re-named Yitel, and we opened two other Yitel hotels in late 2011 and three more in 2012. We currently have four other Yitel hotels contracted and under development, and we target to have a total of more than 50 Yitel hotels within the next three years. We have limited operating experience in developing and operating hotels in the mid to upscale market. If the new product is not well received by the market, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses, and our overall financial performance and condition may be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Our business is sensitive to global economic conditions. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and it is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011 and the slowdown of the Chinese economy in 2012. It is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis will be contained and whether the Chinese economy will resume its high growth rate. There is considerable uncertainty over the long term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in volatility in oil and other markets, and over the possibility of a war involving Iran. There have also been concerns about the economic effect of the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in Japan, about tensions in the relationship between China and Japan and more recently about North Korea’s nuclear program. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions, and any slowdown in the Chinese economy would likely reduce the level of business and leisure travel within China, which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by epidemics, severe weather conditions, natural disasters and other catastrophes. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by epidemics, severe weather conditions, natural disasters and other catastrophes, particularly in locations where we operate a large number of hotels. Losses caused by epidemics, severe weather conditions, natural disasters and other catastrophes, including H1N1 or H7N9 virus, SARS, avian flu, earthquakes and typhoons, are either uninsurable or too expensive to justify insuring against in China. In the event an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any financial obligations related to the hotel. Similarly, epidemics, war (including the potential of war), terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity), social unrest and heightened travel security measures instituted in response and travel-related accidents, as well as geopolitical uncertainty and international conflict, will affect travel and may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation. In addition, we may not be adequately prepared with contingency planning or recovery capability for a major incident or crisis, and as a result our operational continuity may be adversely affected and our reputation may be harmed. The lodging industry in China is highly competitive with relatively low barriers to entry, and if we are unable to compete successfully, our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. The lodging industry in China is highly competitive. Competition in the industry is primarily based on room rates, quality of accommodations, brand name recognition, convenience of location, geographic coverage, service quality, range of services and guest amenities. We compete primarily with other economy hotel chains as well as various regional and local economy hotels. We also compete with two- and three-star hotels, as we offer rooms with standards comparable to many of those hotels while maintaining competitive pricing. In addition, we may also face competition from new entrants in the economy hotel segment in China. As compared to developing four- or five-star hotels, developing economy and midscale hotels does not require significant capital commitments or human resources. This relatively low barrier to entry potentially allows new competitors to enter our markets quickly to compete with our business. Furthermore, we compete with all other hotels for guests in each market in which we operate, as our typical business and leisure traveler customers may change their travel, spending and consumption patterns and choose to stay in hotels in different segments. New and existing competitors may offer competitive rates, greater convenience, services or amenities or superior facilities, which could attract customers away from our hotels, resulting in a decrease in occupancy and average daily rates for our hotels. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to retain our senior management could harm our business. We place substantial reliance on the lodging and other consumer-service industry experience and the institutional knowledge of members of our senior management team. Mr. David Jian Sun, our chief executive officer, Ms. Huiping Yan, our chief financial officer, Mr. Jason Xiangxin Zong, our chief operating officer, and Ms. May Wu, our chief strategy officer, are particularly important to our future success due to their substantial experience in the lodging and other consumer service industries. We do not carry key person insurance on any of our senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more of these members of our senior management team due to their departure or otherwise could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth strategies. Finding suitable replacements for Mr. Sun, Ms. Yan, Mr. Zong and Ms. Wu could be difficult, and competition for such personnel of similar experience is intense. If we lose the services of any of them, our business may be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Interruption or failure of our information and operational systems could impair our ability to effectively provide our services, which could damage our reputation. Our ability to provide consistent and high-quality services throughout our hotel chain depends on the continued operation of our proprietary information and operational systems, including our property management, central reservation, customer relationship management and management reporting systems. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems could interrupt our service. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, fires, floods, earthquakes, interruptions in access to our toll-free numbers, hacking or other attempts to harm our systems, and similar events. Our servers, which are maintained in Shanghai, may also be vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and vandalism. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all possible scenarios. In addition, our systems and technologies may become outdated and we may not be able to replace or introduce upgraded systems as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs for such upgrades. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, our quality of services and our reputation could be harmed. The steps we need to take to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems may be costly, which could reduce our operating margin, and there can be no assurance that whatever increased reliability may be achievable in practice would justify the costs incurred. Failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in harm to our reputation or subject us to costs, liabilities, fines or lawsuits. Our business involves collecting and retaining large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personal information as our various information technology systems enter, process, summarize and report such data. We also maintain information about various aspects of our business operations as well as our employees. The integrity and protection of our customer, employee and company data is critical to our business. Our customers and employees expect that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulations applicable to security and privacy are becoming increasingly important in China. Theft, loss, fraudulent or unlawful use of customer, employee or company data could harm our reputation or result in remedial and other costs including fines and litigation liabilities. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2012. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report as of December 31, 2012. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures—Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm.” However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to continue to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our business. We believe our brands, trade names, trademarks and other intellectual property are critical to our success. “Home Inn” and “Motel 168” are highly recognized brands in the economy hotel segment of China’s lodging industry. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our brands, trade names and trademarks to increase brand awareness and to further develop our brand. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brands and their market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill. In addition, our proprietary information and operational systems, which have not been patented or otherwise registered as our property, are a key component of our competitive advantage and our growth strategy. Monitoring and preventing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. The measures we take to protect our brands, trade names, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent their unauthorized use by third parties. Furthermore, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China and abroad is evolving, and could involve substantial uncertainties to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our brands, trade names, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, we may lose these rights and our business may suffer materially. 10 Table of Contents The growth of on-line and other hotel reservation intermediaries and travel consolidators may adversely affect our margins and profitability. Some of our hotel rooms are booked through travel intermediaries and consolidators to whom we pay agency fees for such services. If these intermediaries and consolidators become the primary channel through which our customers make their bookings, they may be able to negotiate higher agency fee rates, reduced room rates, or other significant concessions from us. We believe that the aim of such intermediaries and consolidators is to have consumers develop loyalties to their reservation systems rather than to our brand. A material increase in reliance on these travel intermediaries and consolidators may adversely affect our ability to control the supply and price of our room inventory, which would in turn adversely affect our margins and profitability. Our expansion and our integration of the Motel 168 hotels requires capital. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and/or obtain outside financing when required, we may not be able to fund our planned expansion. We typically need to make a capital expenditure of approximately US$1.4 million to convert a leased property into an operational Home Inn brand leased-and-operated hotel. Following our acquisition of Motel 168, we spent approximately US$17.4 million through December 31, 2012 on renovating the Motel 168 hotels and implementing new marketing initiatives and operational best practices, and we expect that our expenditures for these purposes will total between $20 million and $25 million by the time major work under the integration plan is completed. Accelerated expansion of our leased-and-operated Home Inn, Motel 168 and Yitel brand hotels beyond the levels of the last two years will increase our capital expenditures. We typically incur substantial pre-opening expenses for leased-and-operated hotels during the conversion stage and incur losses during the initial ramp-up stage. In the past, we were able to fund such capital expenditures and pre-opening and other expenses from capital markets fund raising activities and cash flow generated internally from our operations. There is no assurance that we will continue to be able to access capital markets or generate sufficient cash flow internally to fund our planned expansion. In addition, the covenants contained in the credit agreement relating to our secured loan facility limit our ability to access the capital markets for the duration of that loan facility. See “—The covenants contained in the credit agreement relating to our secured loan facility restrict our ability to expand our business.” Future acquisitions or strategic investments may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire or invest in businesses or assets that are complementary to our business. Future acquisitions, particularly actual or potential material acquisitions, would expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing business and the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions. After we acquired Top Star in 2007, our operational and financial performance was negatively impacted by the acquired hotels after we had committed substantial management and financial resources to the integration and improvement of those acquired hotels. The acquisition of Motel 168 in 2011 had a short-term negative impact on our operational and financial performance in 2012, and it may have a negative impact on our results of operations in 2013 without meaningful improvement in the economy. Any difficulties encountered in the acquisition and integration process may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and near term profitability. If a strategic investment is unsuccessful, then in addition to the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing business we may lose the value of our investment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to increase revenue and profitability from our operations. We have a limited operating history, having commenced operations in 2002. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and challenges encountered by a company with a limited operating history. These risks and challenges include those associated with our ability to: • continue our growth while maintaining our profitability; • maintain and enhance our competitive position in the economy hotel segment of the lodging industry in China; • offer an innovative product to attract recurring and new customers; • implement our strategy and modify it from time to time to respond effectively to competition and changes in customer preferences and needs; • increase awareness of our “Home Inn”, “Yitel” and “Motel 168” brands and continue to develop customer loyalty; • attract, train, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and • renew leases for our leased-and-operated hotels on commercially viable terms after the initial lease terms expire. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks or challenges, our business may be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Seasonality of our business and the occurrence of national or regional major events may cause fluctuations in our revenues, cause our ADS price to decline, and adversely affect our profitability. The lodging industry is subject to fluctuations in revenues due to seasonality and national or regional major events. The seasonality of our business may cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Generally, the first quarter, in which both the New Year and Spring Festival holidays fall, accounts for a lower percentage of our annual revenues than other quarters of the year. Therefore, you should not rely on our operating results for prior quarters as an indication of our results in any future period. In addition, the occurrence of national or regional major events may affect our operating results, in particular for the hotel locations where those events are held. In 2011, our year-over-year RevPar decrease was driven by a lower occupancy rate and a lower average daily rate due to the absence of the price premium unique to the Shanghai World Expo that started on May 1, 2010 and ended on October 31, 2010. As our revenues may vary from quarter to quarter or year to year, our business is difficult to predict and our results could fall below investor expectations, which could cause our ADS price to decline. Furthermore, although it typically takes our new hotels three to six months to ramp up, the ramp-up process of some of our hotels can be delayed due to seasonality, which may negatively affect our revenues and profitability. We are subject to various franchise, hotel industry, construction, hygiene, health and safety, and environmental laws and regulations that may subject us to liability. Our business is subject to various compliance and operational requirements under PRC laws. For example, we are required to obtain the approval from, and file initial and annual reports with, the PRC Ministry of Commerce to engage in the hotel franchising business. Each of our hotels is required to obtain a special industry license and a fire control approval issued by the local public security bureau, to have hotel operations included in the business scope of its business license, to obtain hygiene permits and environmental impact assessment approvals, and to comply with license requirements, rules, laws and regulations with respect to construction permit, zoning, fire prevention, public and food safety and environmental protection. See “Regulation — Regulations on Hotel Operation.” If we fail to comply with any applicable construction, hygiene, health and safety, and environmental laws and regulations related to our business, we may be subject to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or the suspension of our operations or development activities. Furthermore, new regulations could also require us to retrofit or modify our hotels or incur other significant expenses. It is also possible that new zoning plans or regulations applicable to a specific location may cause us to relocate our hotel(s) in that location, or require additional approvals and licenses that may not be granted to us promptly or at all, which may adversely affect our operating results. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances in our development activities, or to otherwise operate in compliance with environmental laws could also subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or the suspension of our hotel development activities or hotel operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, we had not yet obtained certain required approvals, licenses and permits in the PRC for 16 of our hotels, most of which had been open for less than three months. While we expect to obtain the required approvals, licenses and permits in due course, this noncompliance could result in administrative fines, suspension of operations or other penalties under applicable PRC law. We cannot guarantee that we will not be subject to any challenges or other actions with respect to such noncompliance. Accidents or injuries in our hotels may adversely affect our reputation and subject us to liability. There are inherent risks of accidents or injuries occurring in hotels or in connection with our hotel construction or operations. For example, in the early morning of May 1, 2011, a fire broke out in Tonghua City, Jilin Province, in the building in which one of our hotels is located. Ten people were killed and over forty were injured. It was later determined that the fire was caused by arson within the premises of another tenant in the same building. As the fire broke out between three and four o’clock in the morning, most of the victims were guests or employees of our hotel. The occurrence of one or more such accidents or injuries could adversely affect our reputation for safety among customers and potential customers, harm our brand, result in liability, and increase our costs by requiring us to implement even more comprehensive safety measures. Our current property and liability insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage and we may be unable to renew our insurance policies or obtain new insurance policies without increased premiums or decreased levels of coverage. 12 Table of Contents We have limited insurance coverage. We carry property insurance that covers the assets that we own at our hotels, but not the buildings or any other assets owned by our lessors. Although we require our lessors to purchase customary insurance policies, we cannot guarantee that they will adhere to such requirements. Furthermore, those Motel 168 hotels that are still operating on leases they had signed before the acquisition generally have lower insurance coverage than our Home Inn and Yitel hotels. If we were held liable for amounts and claims exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage or outside the scope of our insurance coverage, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we do not have any business disruption insurance coverage for our operations to cover losses that may be caused by severe weather conditions, natural disasters or catastrophic events, such as epidemics or earthquakes. Any business disruption or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Our leases could be terminated early, we may not be able to renew our existing leases on commercially reasonable terms and our rents could increase substantially in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our lease agreements with third parties for our leased-and-operated hotels typically provide, among other things, that the lease agreements could be terminated under certain legal or factual circumstances. If our leases were terminated early, we may be entitled to liquidated damages and full or partial recovery of our investments in leasehold improvements; however, our operation of such properties may be interrupted or discontinued and we may incur costs in relocating our operations to other locations. Furthermore, we may have to pay losses and damages and incur other liabilities to our guests and other vendors due to breach or default of our contractual obligations for a particular property. As a result, our business and results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by early termination of our lease agreements. We plan to renew our existing leases upon expiration. However, we may be unable to retain our leases on satisfactory terms, or at all. In particular, we may experience an increase in rent payments and loss of revenues in connection with renegotiating our leases. If a significant number of our existing leases are terminated early or are not renewed on satisfactory terms upon expiration, our costs may increase in the future. If we cannot pass the increased costs on to our guests through room rate increases, our operating margins and earnings could decrease and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our legal right to lease certain properties could be challenged by property owners or other third parties, which could prevent us from continuing to operate the affected hotels or increase the costs associated with operating these hotels. Except for one hotel property, we do not hold any land-use rights with respect to the land on which our hotels are located, nor do we own any of the hotel properties we operate. Instead, our business model relies on leases from third parties who either own the properties or lease the properties from the ultimate property owner. As of December 31, 2012, title certificates for 98 of the properties operated by us had not been obtained. We cannot guarantee that title to properties we currently lease or franchise will not be challenged, and such challenges, if successful, could impair the development or operations of our hotels on such properties. In addition, we are subject to the risk of potential disputes with property owners. Such disputes, whether resolved in our favor or not, may divert management attention, harm our reputation or otherwise disrupt our business. In a few instances where our immediate lessors are not the ultimate owners of hotel properties, no consent was obtained from the owners to sublease the hotel properties to us. A lessor’s failure to duly obtain the title to the property or to receive any necessary approvals from the ultimate owner or the primary lease holder, as applicable, could potentially invalidate our lease or result in the renegotiation of such lease leading to less favorable terms. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that the building ownership or leasehold in connection with our franchised-and-managed hotels will not be subject to similar third-party challenges. Some of the properties we or our franchisees lease from third parties were subject to mortgages at the time the leases were signed. In such circumstances and where consent to the lease was not obtained from the mortgage holder, the lease may not be binding on the transferee of the property if the mortgage holders foreclose on the mortgage and transfer the property, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our ability to operate the hotel facility. 13 Table of Contents Our lessors’ failure to comply with lease registration and other compliance requirements under PRC law may subject these lessors or us to fines or other penalties that may negatively affect our ability to operate our hotels. As an operator and manager of hotel properties, we, our franchisees and those from whom we lease properties are subject to a number of land- and property-related legal requirements. For instance, under PRC law, all lessors are required to register their lease agreements with the local housing bureau. Our standard lease agreement generally requires the lessor to make such registrations. However, as of December 31, 2012, most lessors of our leased-and-operated hotels had not obtained registrations of their leases from the relevant authorities as required. We continue to remind these lessors to obtain registrations under our lease agreements with them. In addition, based on the specific land use right certificates and property ownership certificates currently held by some of our lessors, certain hotel properties we lease are restricted to industrial and other uses, rather than for commercial service use. The failure of our lessors to register lease agreements as required by law or to ensure that the hotel properties are operated in compliance with their designated use may subject these lessors or us to fines or other penalties which may negatively affect our ability to operate the hotels covered under those leases. There are uncertainties associated with our cooperation with our franchisees. Franchisees’ defaults or wrongdoings may affect our reputation, which would adversely affect the results of our operations. Our franchised-and-managed hotels operate under our brand names. If our brands are misused by any of our franchisees, there may be an adverse impact on our business reputation and brand image. In addition, like operators in service-oriented industries, we are subject to customer complaints and we may face complaints from unsatisfied customers who are unhappy with the standard of service offered by our franchisees. Any complaints, regardless of their nature and validity, may affect our reputation, thereby adversely affecting the results of our operations. We may also have to incur additional costs in placating any customers or salvaging our reputation. If our franchisees default or commit wrongdoings, there could be situations where the franchisees are not in a position to sufficiently compensate us for losses which we may have suffered as a result thereof. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. We conduct substantially all of our business operations in China. As the travel industry is highly sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels, it tends to decline during general economic downturns. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are influenced significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the degree of government involvement and influence on the level of economic development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to promote economic development and direct the allocation of resources. While some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative impact on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, zoning requirements and other governmental mandates with respect to urban planning may change from time to time, and some of our hotels may be demolished or relocated, for which we may not receive adequate compensation. As the PRC economy is increasingly intricately linked to the global economy, it is affected in various respects by downturns and recessions of major economies around the world, such as the recent global financial crisis. Stimulus measures designed to help China weather the global financial crisis may contribute to higher inflation, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Whether as a result of rising standards of living or other factors, we have already felt inflationary pressure on rents, utilities and wages. Measures to control the pace of economic growth may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition by reducing demand from business and leisure travelers. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to selected industries or companies. We cannot guarantee that future actions and policies of the PRC government will not materially affect our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. 14 Table of Contents The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by an auditor that is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and consequently you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the SEC and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are licensed to operate in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, their audit procedures or quality control procedures are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audits and quality control procedures of any auditors operating in China, including our auditors. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Proceedings instituted recently by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, may ultimately result in our financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In December 2012, the SEC instituted proceedings under Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the SEC’s Rules of Practice against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ work papers related to their audits of certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) grants to the SEC the authority to deny to any person, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC if that person is found by the SEC, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any such laws or rules and regulations. While we cannot predict the outcome of the SEC’s proceedings, if our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements for financial statements of public companies with a class of securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the SEC’s revocation of the registration of our ordinary shares under the Exchange Act, which would cause the immediate delisting of our ADSs from the Nasdaq Global Market, and the effective termination of the trading market for our ADSs in the United States, which would be likely to have a significant adverse effect on the value of our ADSs and our ordinary shares. In addition, because the issues raised in the SEC proceedings would be likely to extend to all independent public accounting firms in the PRC, it may not be possible for us to attempt to address this issue by changing our independent registered public accounting firm. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but do not have binding legal effect. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published court decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 15 Table of Contents Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to our offshore entities for our offshore entities to pay dividends or make other payments or otherwise to satisfy our foreign currency-dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign currency in their current account bank accounts for use in payment of international current account transactions. However, for most capital account items, approval from or registration with appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. If we finance our PRC subsidiaries through additional capital contributions, the amount of these capital contributions must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce in China or its local counterpart. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Memorandum 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. The notice requires that RMB converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless this is specifically provided for in the business scope of the foreign-invested company. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of RMB funds converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such RMB may not be changed without approval from SAFE, and it may not be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used for purposes within the company’s approved business scope. Violations of Memorandum 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulations. We cannot guarantee you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to contribute additional capitals to fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Substantially all of our revenues and most of our expenses are denominated in RMB. However, we also have substantial assets and liabilities that are denominated in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2012, we had U.S. dollar denominated cash and cash equivalents of US$41.5 million, and we had US$184.0 million in outstanding convertible notes and US$119.0 million in outstanding term loans. The conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the RMB to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the RMB to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again, though there have been periods recently when the U.S. dollar has appreciated against the Renminbi. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar in the future. Any significant depreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs and common shares. If we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares, for repayment of debt or for other business purposes, depreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would reduce the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Under the terms of the credit agreement dated September 26, 2011, which we entered into in connection with our acquisition of Motel 168, we are required to cause our subsidiaries in China to declare and pay the maximum legally distributable earnings of the most recently ended calendar year as dividends to our entities outside of China to service the debt, except that we may maintain a level of RMB cash balance in China to continue on-going operation and expansion according to a prescribed budget and forecast. On the other hand, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. In addition, the value of your investment in our ADSs will be affected by the exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB because the value of our business is effectively denominated in RMB, while the ADSs will be traded in U.S. dollars. Fluctuation in the value of the RMB in either direction could have a material adverse effect on the value of our company and the value of your investment. 16 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 along with related procedural guidance most recently amended in 2011 requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or gaining control of any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equity of PRC companies. This kind of company is referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” Under this public notice, PRC residents who are shareholders and/or beneficial owners of such offshore special purpose companies were required to register with the local SAFE branch. We have requested our shareholders and/or beneficial owners who are subject to the registration requirements under the SAFE notice to register with the local SAFE branch. Failure of these shareholders and/or beneficial owners to register with the local SAFE branch as required by the SAFE notice or failure of future shareholders of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE notice may subject such shareholders and/or beneficial owners to fines and other government actions and may also limit our ability to fund our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to our company or otherwise adversely affect our business. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries entities to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries in China for our cash requirements, including any debt we may incur. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries in China is required to set aside at least 10% of its accumulated after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserves until the aggregate amount of such statutory reserves reach 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2012, aggregate net assets of RMB 3.27 billion (US$524.7 million) were not distributable in the form of dividends to us due to these PRC regulations. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements we currently have in place in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. The PRC tax treatment of our holding company structure under the Enterprise Income Tax Law is subject to uncertainties, and if such uncertainties are resolved unfavorably to us, we may incur higher taxes than we anticipate, and our net income and ability to pay dividends could be hampered. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands that indirectly holds, through subsidiaries in the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands, Mauritius and Hong Kong, other subsidiaries in the PRC. We conduct substantially all of our business operations in China. The Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules provide that China-sourced income of foreign enterprises, such as dividends paid by a PRC subsidiary to its non-PRC resident overseas parent, will normally be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of 10%, unless there are applicable treaties that reduce such rate. Under a special arrangement between China and Hong Kong, dividends paid to enterprises incorporated in Hong Kong are subject to a preferential withholding tax rate of 5% provided that a Hong Kong resident enterprise owns over 25% of the PRC enterprise distributing the dividend and can be considered as a “beneficial owner” of the dividends received from the PRC enterprise. The State Administration for Taxation promulgated Notice Regarding Interpretation and Recognition of Beneficial Owners under Tax Treaties on October 27, 2009, which provides guidance on the determination of “beneficial owners”. If our Hong Kong subsidiaries are not considered to be the “beneficial owners” of the dividends they receive from our PRC subsidiaries under this notice, any dividends paid by our PRC subsidiaries to our Hong Kong subsidiaries would be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, an enterprise established outside of China whose “de facto management body” is located in China is considered a resident enterprise for PRC tax purpose and will be subject to enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. Under the applicable implementation regulations, the “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. Substantially all of our management is currently based in China, and may remain in China in the future. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, our global income will be subject to income tax at a uniform rate of 25%, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the Enterprise Income Tax Law also provides that, if a resident enterprise directly invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested enterprise are exempted from income tax, subject to certain conditions. 17 Table of Contents Our foreign ADS or ordinary share holders may be subject to PRC withholding tax on the dividends payable by us and upon gains realized on their sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares if we are classified as a PRC “resident enterprise.” Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, any gain realized by “non-resident enterprises” is subject to 10% withholding tax to the extent such gain is sourced within the PRC if (i) such “nonresident enterprise” has no establishment or premise in the PRC, or (ii) it has an establishment or premise in the PRC but its income sourced within the PRC has no real connection with such establishment or premise, unless the withholding tax is otherwise exempted or reduced by tax treaties. The Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules are relatively new and ambiguities exist with respect to the interpretation of the provisions relating to identification of PRC-source income. If we are recognized as a PRC resident enterprise under the Enterprise Income Tax Law by the PRC tax authorities, dividends paid by us to our non-PRC resident enterprise ADS holders and ordinary shareholders may be deemed to be derived from sources within the PRC and, therefore, be subject to the 10% PRC dividend withholding tax. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of our ADSs or ordinary shares by our non-PRC resident enterprise ADS holders and ordinary shareholders may also be subject to the 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. In such case, our foreign ADS or ordinary share holders that are “non-resident enterprises” may become subject to a 10% withholding income tax under the Enterprise Income Law, unless any such foreign ADS or ordinary share holders is qualified for a preferential withholding rate or tax exemption under a tax treaty or tax law. If the PRC tax authorities recognize us as a PRC resident enterprise under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, our ADS holders who are not PRC tax residents and seek to enjoy preferential tax rates under relevant tax treaties will need to apply to the PRC tax authorities for recognition of eligibility for such benefits in accordance with Memorandum 124, issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation on August 24, 2009. It is likely that eligibility will be based on a substantive analysis of the ADS holders’ tax residency and economic substance. With respect to dividends, the “beneficial owner” tests will also apply. If determined to be ineligible for treaty benefits, such an ADS holder would become subject to higher PRC tax rates on capital gains realized from sales of our ADSs and on dividends on our ADSs. In such circumstances, the value of such foreign ADS holders’ investment in our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. The M&A rule sets forth complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies including the PRC Ministry of Commerce and SAFE jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule. The M&A Rule sets forth complex procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the approvals from Ministry of Commerce be obtained. We may continue to expand our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses or assets in China. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. From our listing on October 27, 2006 to April 18, 2013, the market price of our ADSs on Nasdaq ranged from a low of US$7.00 to a high of US$54.25 per ADS, and the closing price on April 19, 2013 was US$26.58 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • revisions to our projected financial or operational performance by ourselves or by securities research analysts; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • conditions in the travel and lodging industries, including regulatory developments affecting us or our competitors; 18 Table of Contents • changes in the performance or market valuations of other lodging companies; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the quality of our services or those of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, expansions or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies; • detrimental negative publicity about our company or our services; • potential litigation or administrative investigations; • sales or anticipated potential sales of additional shares or ADSs; • market and volume fluctuations in the stock market in general; and • general economic or political conditions in China and elsewhere. In addition, the market prices for companies with operations in China in particular have experienced volatility that might have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. The securities of some China-based companies that have listed their securities in the United States have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the market prices of their securities. The performance of the securities of these China-based companies after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or other matters in other China-based companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards China-based companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have engaged in any inappropriate activities. The global financial crisis and the ensuing economic recessions in many countries have contributed and may continue to contribute to extreme volatility in the global stock markets, such as the large declines in share prices in the United States, China and other jurisdictions at various times since 2008. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. Substantial future sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline, particularly if a large number of previously restricted shares become registered. In some cases, we may agree to file shelf registration statements in connection with a major acquisition or securities offering. For example, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form F-3 in May 2011 after certain shareholders and holders of our convertible notes exercised their registration rights, and we filed another shelf registration statement on Form F-3 in May 2012 after the former shareholders of Motel 168 exercised their registration rights. In each case, a significant number of shares or convertible securities became freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our officers, directors and principal shareholders. As of March 31, 2013, our directors and officers beneficially owned a total of 35,303,628 of our ordinary shares, including shares that they had the right to acquire within 60 days. Beijing Tourism Group, or BTG, through its affiliate, owned 14,726,165 of our ordinary shares based on the latest information it has filed with the SEC, and it has the right to appoint, and has appointed, two directors of our company. Furthermore, Ctrip.com International, Ltd., or Ctrip, owned 14,400,765 of our ordinary shares based on the latest information it has filed with the SEC; two of Ctrip’s co-founders and directors are also our co-founders and directors. If our officers, directors and these two principal shareholders choose to act in concert, they would beneficially own 37.9% of our ordinary shares (calculated as of March 31, 2013, including shares that they had the right to acquire within 60 days) and could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. The concentration of our share ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs or the value of our ordinary shares. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. 19 Table of Contents You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares represented by our ADSs directly. Holders of our ADSs may instruct the depositary or its nominee how to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. However, you may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may distribute rights to our shareholders from time to time, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and the majority of our officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our directors and officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. It may also be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits, provided that the judgment is final and was not obtained in a manner and is not of a kind where its enforcement would be contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2012 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. 20 Table of Contents As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our articles of association contain provisions limiting the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to enter into change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Provisions of our convertible notes and our secured loan facility agreement could discourage an acquisition of our company by a third party. The indenture for our convertible notes defines a “fundamental change” to include: (1) any person or group gaining control of our company; (2) our company merging with or into another company or disposing of substantially all of its assets; (3) our ADSs ceasing to be listed on a U.S. national securities exchange; or (4) the adoption of any plan relating to the dissolution or liquidation of our company. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, holders of our convertible notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes in integral multiples of US$1,000. In the event of a fundamental change, we may also be required to issue additional ADSs upon conversion of our convertible notes. As of December 31, 2012, the outstanding principal amount under the convertible notes was US$184.0 million. Our secured loan facility agreement defines a “change of control” to include: (1) any person or group owning 50.1% (or, with our cooperation, 30%) of the voting equity interests of our company; (2) any person who was not a member of our management on September 26, 2011, obtaining the ability to appoint senior officers of our corporate group or a majority of the members of our board or the board of any of our subsidiaries; (3) our ADSs being delisted from Nasdaq, or ADSs representing less than 15% of our issued and outstanding shares being registered and available for trading on Nasdaq; or (4) the disposal of all or substantially all of our assets. Upon the occurrence of a change of control, all outstanding term loans become immediately due and payable. As of the date of this annual report, the outstanding principal amount under the secured loan facility is US$117.0 million. These provisions of our convertible notes and our secured loan facility agreement could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us and discourage an acquisition of our company by a third party. The depositary of our ADSs, except in limited circumstances, has granted to us a discretionary proxy to vote the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs if ADS holders do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, which could adversely affect ADS holders’ interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary gave us a discretionary proxy to vote the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if ADS holders do not vote, unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related materials; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or 21 Table of Contents • voting at the meeting is made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that ADS holders cannot prevent ordinary shares underlying the ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences for U.S. Holders. Based on the price of our ADSs and ordinary shares and the composition of our income and assets, we believe that we were not a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2012. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to ambiguity in several aspects and we must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of such taxable year). Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we will not be a PFIC for our current or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The value of our assets generally will be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which may fluctuate considerably. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we raise in any offering. In the event that we become classified as a PFIC, we do not intend to prepare or provide the information that would enable U.S. Holders to make an election to treat us as a qualified electing fund. Further, if we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder held an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. Holder. For the definition of “U.S. Holder” and a more detailed discussion of United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders, see “ Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 