Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and IndustryWe have a history of net losses, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability.We have incurred significant net losses over the last few years, including net losses of approximately $4.1 million in 2013, $7.7 million in 2012, $10.2 million in 2011, and $11.4 million in 2010. At December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $73.8 million. We will continue to incur significant expenses for the foreseeable future as we expand our sales and marketing, research and development, and clinical activities and pursue regulatory approvals. We may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve or sustain profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. Our business and prospects must be evaluated in light of the expenses, delays, uncertainties and complications typically encountered by businesses in our stage of development operating in an evolving market. These include, but are not limited to, potential problems, delays or expenses relating to product development, governmental approvals or reimbursement for our products, competition, technological changes and uncertain market acceptance. In addition, if we are unable to manage growth effectively, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully control or address any or all of these risks, and the failure to adequately do so could cause our business, results of operations, and financial condition to suffer.Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control.We are subject to the following factors, among others, that may negatively affect our operating results:•The announcement or introduction of new products by our competitors;•Failure of government and private health plans to adequately and timely reimburse the users of our products;•Removal of our products from the Federal Supply Schedule or change in the prices that government accounts will pay for our products;•Our ability to upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure to accommodate growth;•Our ability to attract and retain key personnel in a timely and cost effective manner;•The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure;•Regulation by federal, state or local governments; and•General economic conditions as well as economic conditions specific to the healthcare industry.As a result of our limited operating history, limited resources, the evolving nature of our products and the nature of the markets in which we compete, it is difficult for us to forecast accurately. We have based our current and future expense levels largely on our investment plans and estimates of future events, although certain of our expense levels are, to a large extent, fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenue relative to our planned expenditures would have an immediate adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing, service or marketing decisions that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to the foregoing factors, our revenue and operating results are and will remain difficult to forecast.We are in a highly competitive and evolving field and face competition from large, well-established, tissue processors and medical device manufacturers, as well as new market entrants.Our business is in a very competitive and evolving field. Competition from other tissue processors, medical device companies and from research and academic institutions is intense, expected to increase, subject to rapid change, and could be significantly affected by new product introductions.Many of our products have short regulatory time frames and our competitors may be able to develop competitive products that are as or more effective than our products or that render our products and technologies less competitive or obsolete.17Many of our competitors have competitive advantages over us, including some or all of the following:·Significantly greater name recognition;·Established relations with surgeons, hospitals, other healthcare providers and third party payers;·Large and established sales and distribution networks in the United States and/or in international markets;·Greater experience in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals and/or clearances from the FDA and other regulatory agencies;·Greater financial, managerial and other resources for product research and development, sales and marketing efforts and protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights.The presence of this competition in our market may lead to pricing pressure, which would make it more difficult to sell our products at a price that will make us profitable or prevent us from selling our products at all.Our success will depend on our ability to perfect and protect our intellectual property rights related to our technologies as well as to develop new technologies and new applications for our technologies.Our failure to compete effectively would have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our EpiFix® and AmnioFix® products are dependent on the availability of sufficient quantities of placental tissue from human donors, and any disruption in supply could adversely affect our business.The success of our human tissue products depends upon, among other factors, the availability of sufficient quantities of placental tissue from human donors. The availability of donated placental tissue could be adversely impacted by regulatory changes, public opinion of the donor process as well as our own reputation in the industry. Any disruption in the supply of donated human tissue could restrict our growth and could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. We cannot be sure that the supply of human tissue will continue to be available at current levels or will be sufficient to meet our future needs.Our EpiFix® and AmnioFix® products are derived from human tissue and therefore have the potential for disease transmission.The utilization of human tissue creates the potential for transmission of communicable disease, including, but not limited to, human immunodeficiency virus (“HIV”), viral hepatitis, syphilis and other viral, fungal or bacterial pathogens. We are required to comply with federal and state regulations intended to prevent communicable disease transmission.Although we maintain strict quality controls over the procurement and processing of our tissue, there is no assurance that these quality controls will be adequate. In addition, negative publicity concerning disease transmission from other companies' improperly processed donated tissue could have a negative impact on the demand for our EpiFix® and AmnioFix® products.We depend on key personnel.Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel, including sales, managerial and technical personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find and attract additional qualified employees to support our expected growth or retain any such personnel. Our inability to hire and retain qualified personnel or the loss of services of our key personnel may have a material and adverse effect on our business, operations and results of operations.In January 2012 the SEC brought a civil action against our Chairman and CEO alleging that in 2007, when he was Chairman and CEO of Matria Healthcare, Inc., Mr. Petit provided inside information to an individual who subsequently purchased Matria Healthcare stock, which the individual sold more than six months later for a gain of less than $10,000. Mr. Petit adamantly denies the allegations and is vigorously defending the action. Although a date has not yet been set, unless the case is dismissed, it is expected to be tried sometime in the first half of 2014. We are not involved in the litigation in any way. When the litigation was announced, our independent directors issued a press release announcing that they believed “Mr. Petit can continue his able leadership of MiMedx while dealing with this personal, civil matter.” One of the remedies sought in the litigation, however, is a bar prohibiting Mr. Petit from serving as an officer or director of a public company. Although we have in place a succession plan for Mr. Petit, as noted above, any transition in key personnel has the potential to negatively affect our business.18A significant portion of our revenues and accounts receivable come from a limited number of accounts.Two customers accounted for approximately 66% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013. We provide products to government accounts, including the Veteran's Administration, through a distributor that has a Federal Supply Schedule Contract that recently was extended through January 2018. These sales represented 40% of our revenue in 2012 and 56% of our revenue in 2013. Our agreement with the distributor has an initial term of three years ending in April 2015. The agreement has the potential of being extended for three additional one year terms. We believe the risk related to that concentration of revenue from a single distributor is mitigated by the fact that our own sales force calls on and has a personal relationship with the individual Veteran's Administration facilities that represent most of that revenue. Therefore, we believe we eventually could regain much of the Veteran's Administration business, even if our relationship with our distributor were terminated. Nevertheless, if our agreement with our distributor were terminated prematurely or if the distributor were for any reason unable to service the government market, there could be a disruption of our government accounts business that could materially and adversely affect our business, revenues and results of operations. Moreover, if our products were no longer on the Federal Supply Schedule (whether we are selling our products directly to government accounts or through our current or another distributor) or the government changed the way it purchased products like ours or the price it is willing to pay for our products, our business, revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Another of our distributors represented 10% of our revenue in 2013. As of December 31, 2013, the same two customers accounted for approximately 67% of total accounts receivable. This concentration of revenue and accounts receivable makes us more vulnerable to any credit risk associated with these two accounts.In order to grow revenues from certain of our products, we must expand our relationships with distributors and independent sales representatives.We derive material revenues through our relationships with distributors and independent sales representatives. If such relationships were terminated for any reason, it could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and profits. We intend to obtain the assistance of additional distributors and independent sales representatives to continue our sales growth with respect to certain of our products. We may not be able to find additional distributors and independent sales representatives who will agree to market and/or distribute those products on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to establish new distribution and independent sales representative relationships or renew current distribution and sales agency agreements on commercially acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.We are investing significant capital in expanding our internal sales force, and there can be no assurance that these efforts will result in significant increases in sales.We are engaged in a major initiative to build and further expand our internal sales and marketing capabilities. As a result, we are investing in a direct sales force for certain of our products to allow us to reach new customers. These expenses impact our operating results, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in significantly expanding the sales of our products.Our revenues depend on adequate reimbursement from public and private insurers and health systems.Our success depends on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of our products and related treatments will be available from third party payers, such as public and private insurers and health systems. Government and other third-party payers attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new products. Therefore, significant uncertainty usually exists as to the reimbursement status of new healthcare products. A significant number of public and private insurers and health systems currently do not provide reimbursement for our products. If we are not successful in obtaining adequate reimbursement for our products from these third party payers, the market's acceptance of our products could be adversely affected. Inadequate reimbursement levels also likely would create downward price pressure on our products. Even if we do succeed in obtaining widespread reimbursement for our products, future changes in reimbursement policies could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Disruption of our processing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our results of operations are dependent upon the continued operation of our processing facilities. Risks that could impact our ability to use these facilities include the occurrence of natural and other disasters, and the need to comply with the 19requirements of directives from government agencies, including the FDA. The unavailability of our manufacturing and processing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations during the period of such unavailability.To be commercially successful, we must convince physicians that our products are safe and effective alternatives to existing treatments and that our products should be used in their procedures.We believe physicians will only adopt our products if they determine, based on experience, clinical data and published peer reviewed journal articles, that the use of our products in a particular procedure is a favorable alternative to conventional methods. Physicians may be slow to change their medical treatment practices for the following reasons, among others: ·Their lack of experience with prior procedures in the field using our products;·Lack of evidence supporting additional patient benefits and our products over conventional methods;·Perceived liability risks generally associated with the use of new products and procedures;·Limited availability of reimbursement from third party payers; and·The time that must be dedicated to training.In addition, we believe recommendations for and support of our products by influential physicians are essential for market acceptance and adoption. If we do not receive this support or if we are unable to demonstrate favorable long-term clinical data, physicians and hospitals may not use our products, which would significantly reduce our ability to achieve expected revenue and would prevent us from becoming profitable.We will need to expand our organization, and we may be unable to manage rapid growth effectively.Our failure to manage growth effectively could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that a period of significant expansion will be required to penetrate and service the market for our existing and anticipated future products and to continue to develop new products. This expansion will place a significant strain on management, operational and financial resources. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we must both modify our existing operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and implement new systems, procedures and controls. We must also expand our finance, administrative, and operations staff. Management may be unable to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage necessary personnel or to identify, manage and exploit existing and potential strategic relationships and market opportunities.We face the risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance.Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacturing, processing and marketing of medical devices and human tissue products. We may be subject to such claims if our products cause, or appear to have caused, an injury. Claims may be made by patients, healthcare providers or others selling our products. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of merit, could be costly, divert management attention and result in adverse publicity, which could result in the withdrawal of, or reduced acceptance of, our products in the market.Although we have product liability insurance that we believe is adequate, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations and we may not be able to maintain this insurance. If we are unable to maintain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims, we could be exposed to significant liabilities, which may harm our business. A product liability claim or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could result in significant costs and significant harm to our business.We may implement a product recall or voluntary market withdrawal, which could significantly increase our costs, damage our reputation and disrupt our business.The manufacturing, marketing and processing of our tissue products involves an inherent risk that our tissue products or processes do not meet applicable quality standards and requirements. In that event, we may voluntarily implement a recall or market withdrawal or may be required to do so by a regulatory authority. A recall or market withdrawal of one of our products would be costly and would divert management resources. A recall or withdrawal of one of our products, or a similar product processed by another entity, also could impair sales of our products as a result of confusion concerning the scope of the recall or withdrawal, or as a result of the damage to our reputation for quality and safety.20We may not be successful in commercializing our CollaFix™ Technology.We have invested substantial time and resources in developing various additional products using our CollaFix™ technology. Further commercialization of this technology will require additional development, clinical evaluation, regulatory clearance or approval, significant marketing efforts and substantial additional investment before they can provide us with any revenue. Despite our efforts, any such products may not become commercially successful products for a number of reasons, including:·We may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approvals for such products, or the approved indication may be narrower than we seek;·Such products may not prove to be safe and effective in preclinical or clinical trials;·Physicians or hospitals may not receive any reimbursement from third party payers, or the level of reimbursement may be insufficient to support widespread adoption of such products;·We may experience delays in our development programs;·Any products that are approved may not be accepted in the marketplace by physicians or patients;·We may not be able to manufacture any such products in commercial quantities or at an acceptable cost; and·Rapid technological change may make such products obsolete.Risks Related to Our Intellectual PropertyOur ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain and may be inadequate, which would have a material and adverse effect on us. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology, including our licensed technology. These legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. In addition, our pending patent applications include claims to material aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents. The patent application process can be time consuming and expensive. We cannot ensure that any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents. Competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes that are comparable or even superior to ours. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, including entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with some of our officers, employees, consultants and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.The failure to obtain and maintain patents and/or protect our intellectual property rights could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Whether a patent is valid is a complex matter of science and law, and therefore we cannot be certain that, if challenged, our patents would be upheld. If one or more of those patents are invalidated, that could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we might otherwise have had.In the event a competitor infringes upon our licensed or pending patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights may be costly, uncertain, difficult and time consuming.Even if successful, litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights could be expensive and time consuming and could divert our management's attention.The prosecution and enforcement of patents licensed to us by third parties are not within our control, and without these technologies, our products may not be successful and our business would be harmed if the patents were infringed or misappropriated without action by such third parties.We have obtained licenses from third parties for patents and patent application rights related to our CollaFix™ technologies, allowing us to use intellectual property rights owned by or licensed to these third parties. We do not control the maintenance, prosecution, enforcement or strategy for many of these patents or patent application rights and as such are 21dependent in part on the owners of the intellectual property rights to maintain their viability. Their failure to do so could significantly impair our ability to exploit those technologies.We may become subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from developing our products, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages.Third parties could assert that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights. Whether a product infringes a patent or other intellectual property involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of others. Because patent applications may take years to issue, there also may be applications now pending of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products or processes infringe. There also may be existing patents or pending patent applications of which we are unaware that our products or processes may inadvertently infringe.Any infringement claim could cause us to incur significant costs, place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management's attention from our business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents in such claim were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe, we could be prohibited from selling any product that is found to infringe unless we could obtain licenses to use the technology covered by the patent or other intellectual property or are able to design around the patent or other intellectual property. We may be unable to obtain such a license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. A court could also order us to pay compensatory damages for such infringement, plus prejudgment interest and could, in addition, treble the compensatory damages and award attorney fees. These damages could be substantial and could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. A court also could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us and our customers from making, using, or selling products, and could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Depending on the nature of the relief ordered by the court, we could become liable for additional damages to third parties.We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees, or our independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of others.Some of our employees were previously employed at other medical device or tissue companies. We may also hire additional employees who are currently employed at other medical device companies, including our competitors. Additionally, consultants or other independent agents with which we may contract may be or have been in a contractual arrangement with one or more of our competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or independent contractors have used or disclosed any party's trade secrets or other proprietary information. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail to defend such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to market existing or new products, which could severely harm our business.Our NDGA License Agreement for our CollaFix™ technology could be terminated.Under our license agreement with Shriners' Hospitals for Children and University of South Florida Research Foundation dated January 29, 2007, it is possible for the licensor to terminate the agreement if we breach the license agreement and all of our cure rights are exhausted. If our license agreement were to be terminated, our investment in the technology would be lost.Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Products and Other Government RegulationsTo the extent our products do not qualify for regulation as human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act, this could result in removal of the applicable products from the market, would make the introduction of new tissue products more expensive and significantly delay the expansion of our tissue product offerings and subject us to additional post-market regulatory requirements.Our EpiFix® and AmnioFix® products are derived from human tissue. The FDA has specific regulations governing human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products, or HCT/Ps. An HCT/P is a product containing or consisting of human cells or tissue intended for transplantation into a human patient. HCT/Ps that meet the criteria for regulation solely under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act (so-called “361 HCT/Ps”) are not subject to any premarket clearance or approval requirements and are subject to less stringent post-market regulatory requirements.To be a 361 HCT/P, a product generally must meet all four of the following criteria:·It must be minimally manipulated;22·It must be intended for homologous use;·Its manufacture must not involve combination with another article, except for water, crystalloids or a sterilizing, preserving or storage agent; and·It must not have a systemic effect and must not be dependent upon the metabolic activity of living cells for its primary function.Our position is that all of our tissue products are properly classified as 361 HCT/Ps. On August 28, 2013, however, the FDA issued an Untitled Letter alleging that our micronized allografts do not meet the minimal manipulation criteria for regulation solely under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act due to the “micronization process which alters the original, relevant characteristics of the structural tissue, relating to the tissue’s utility for reconstruction, repair or replacement.” The FDA elaborated on the reasons for its conclusion in follow-up correspondence. Both the Untitled Letter and the follow-up correspondence from the FDA concluded that, as a result of the FDA’s determination, we would need a biologics license to lawfully market our micronized products. We have advised the FDA that although we do not agree with their position, we understand the agency’s interest in further regulating this emerging technology. Accordingly, we have proposed to the FDA that we will pursue the BLA process for certain micronized products, and, in parallel, also proposed to enter into negotiations with the FDA on a plan to transition the micronized products to licensed biological products and continue to market the micronized products under specific conditions. There is no guarantee that the FDA will agree to a transition plan or allow us to continue to market our micronized products while we pursue one or more BLAs. If they do allow us to continue to market our micronized products, they may impose conditions, such as labeling restrictions and compliance with Current Good Manufacturing Practices. It is also possible that we would have to recall products already on the market. Also, as discussed below, obtaining a biologics license requires substantial time, effort and financial resources and there is no assurance that any approvals for our injectable products will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. It is also possible that we would have to recall products already on the market.Additionally, there can be no assurance that the FDA will not, at some future point, take the position that other current or future products do not qualify for regulation as 361 HCT/Ps and any regulatory reclassification could have adverse consequences for us and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct our business by requiring premarket clearance or approval and compliance with additional post-market regulatory requirements with respect to those products.Moreover, increased regulatory scrutiny within the industry in which we operate could lead to increased regulation of HCT/Ps, including 361 HCT/Ps. We also cannot assure you that the FDA will not impose more stringent definitions with respect to products that qualify as 361 HCT/Ps.Obtaining and maintaining the necessary regulatory approvals for certain of our products will be expensive and time-consuming and may impede our ability to fully exploit our technologies.The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a biologic or medical device from the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside of the United States is costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. As discussed above, we intend to pursue approval of a Biologics License Application (BLA) for certain of our micronized products. Additionally, the FDA may take the position that some of the other products that we currently market require a BLA as well. Some of the future products and enhancements to our current products that we expect to develop and market may require marketing clearance or approval from the FDA. There can be no assurance, however, that clearance or approval will be granted with respect to any of our products or enhancements or that FDA review will not involve delays that would adversely affect our ability to market such products or enhancements.Our business is subject to continuing regulatory compliance by the FDA and other authorities, which is costly and our failure to comply could result in negative effects on our business.As discussed above, the FDA has specific regulations governing our tissue-based products, or HCT/Ps. The FDA's regulation of HCT/Ps includes requirements for registration and listing of products, donor screening and testing, processing and distribution (“Current Good Tissue Practices”), labeling, record keeping and adverse-event reporting, and inspection and enforcement.Biologics and medical devices are subject to even more stringent regulation by the FDA. Even if pre-market clearance or approval is obtained, the approval or clearance may place substantial restrictions on the indications for which the product may be marketed or to whom it may be marketed, may require warnings to accompany the product or impose additional restrictions on the sale and/or use of the product. In addition, regulatory approval is subject to continuing compliance with regulatory standards, including the FDA's quality system regulations.23If we fail to comply with the FDA regulations regarding our tissue products or medical devices, the FDA could take enforcement action, including, without limitation, any of the following sanctions and the manufacture of our products or processing of our tissue could be delayed or terminated:•Untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, and civil penalties;•Recall or seizure of our products;•Operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production;•Refusing our requests for clearance or approval of new products;•Withdrawing or suspending current applications for approval or approvals already granted; •Refusal to grant export approval for our products; and•Criminal prosecution.It is likely that the FDA's regulation of our products will continue to evolve in the future. Complying with any such new regulatory requirements may entail significant time delays and expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.The American Association of Tissue Banks (“AATB”) has issued operating standards for tissue banking. Compliance with these standards is a requirement in order to become a licensed tissue bank. In addition, some states have their own tissue banking regulations.In addition, procurement of certain human organs and tissue for transplantation is subject to the restrictions of the National Organ Transplant Act (“NOTA”), which prohibits the transfer of certain human organs, including skin and related tissue for valuable consideration, but permits the reasonable payment associated with the removal, transportation, implantation, processing, preservation, quality control and storage of human tissue and skin. We reimburse tissue banks, hospitals and physicians for their services associated with the recovery, storage and transportation of donated human tissue. If we were to be found to have violated NOTA's prohibition on the sale or transfer of human tissue for valuable consideration, we would potentially be subject to criminal enforcement sanctions, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.We and our sales representatives, whether employees or independent contractors, must comply with various federal and state anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, any breach of which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are subject to scrutiny under various federal anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws are complex, and even minor, inadvertent violations can give rise to claims that the relevant law has been violated. Possible sanctions for violation of these fraud and abuse laws include monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs, workers' compensation programs and TRICARE (the healthcare system administered by or on behalf of the U.S. Department of Defense for uniformed services beneficiaries, including active duty and their dependents, retirees and their dependents), and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such prohibitions. Certain states have similar fraud and abuse laws, imposing substantial penalties for violations. Any government investigation or a finding of a violation of these laws would likely result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations.Anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit any knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of an individual or the ordering or recommending of the use of a product or service for which payment may be made by Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs. We have formed a Medical Advisory Board consisting of an aggregate of over 14 physicians and scientists to assist us with scientific research and development and to help us evaluate technologies. We have also entered into consulting agreements, speaker agreements, research agreements and product development agreements with physicians, including some who may order our products or make decisions to use them. In addition, some of these physicians own our stock, which they purchased in arms' length transactions on terms identical to those offered to non-physicians, or received stock options from us as consideration for services performed by them. While these transactions were structured with the intention of complying with all applicable laws, including state anti-referral laws and other applicable anti-kickback laws, it is possible that regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts may in the future view these transactions as prohibited arrangements that must be restructured or for which 24we would be subject to other significant civil or criminal penalties. Because our strategy relies on the involvement of physicians who consult with us on the design of our products, perform clinical research on our behalf or educate the market about the efficacy and uses of our products, we could be materially impacted if regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts interpret our financial relationships with physicians who refer or order our products to be in violation of applicable laws and determine that we would be unable to achieve compliance with such applicable laws. This could harm our reputation and the reputations of the physicians we engage to provide services on our behalf. In addition, the cost of noncompliance with these laws could be substantial since we could be subject to monetary fines and civil or criminal penalties, and we could also be excluded from federally funded healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, for non-compliance.The scope and enforcement of all of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. There can be no assurance that federal or state regulatory or enforcement authorities will not investigate or challenge our current or future activities under these laws. Any investigation or challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any state or federal regulatory or enforcement review of us, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time consuming. Additionally, we cannot predict the impact of any changes in these laws, whether these changes are retroactive or will have effect on a going-forward basis only.We face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform.There have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third party payers to control healthcare costs, and generally, to reform the healthcare system in the United States. There are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or the consequences are not fully understood. These proposals may affect aspects of our business. We also cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they will be adopted, or what impact they may have on us.Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common StockThe price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile.The market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of many other companies that are in, or are just emerging from, the development stage, has fluctuated over a wide range and it is likely that the price of our common stock will fluctuate in the future. From January 1, 2011, through December 31, 2013, the closing price of our common stock has fluctuated from a low of $.76 to a high of $8.74. The market price of our common stock could be impacted by a variety of factors, including:·Fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies or of the markets generally;·Our ability to successfully launch, market and earn significant revenue from our products;·Our ability to obtain additional financing to support our continuing operations;·Disclosure of the details and results of regulatory applications and proceedings;·Changes in government regulations or our failure to comply with any such regulations;·Additions or departures of key personnel;·Our investments in research and development or other corporate resources;·Announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors;·Developments in the patents or other proprietary rights owned or licensed by us or our competitors;·The timing of new product introductions;·Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including any restatements of previously reported results;·Our ability to effectively and consistently manufacture our products and avoid costs associated with the recall of defective or potentially defective products;·Our ability and the ability of our distribution partners to market and sell our products;·Changes in reimbursement for our products or the price for our products to our customers;25·Removal of our products from the Federal Supply Schedule, or changes in how government accounts purchase products such as ours or in the price for our products to government accounts; and. The other risks detailed in this Item 1A.Further, due to the relatively fixed nature of most of our costs, which primarily include personnel costs as well as facilities costs, any unanticipated shortfall in revenue in any fiscal quarter would have an adverse effect on our results of operations in that quarter. Accordingly, our operating results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of results for future periods and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. These fluctuations could cause the trading price of our stock to be negatively affected. Our quarterly operating results have varied substantially in the past and may vary substantially in the future. In addition, the stock market has been very volatile in the recent past. This volatility is often not related to the operating performance of companies listed thereon and will probably continue in the foreseeable future.The concentrated common stock ownership by certain of our executive officers and directors will limit your ability to influence corporate matters.As of December 31, 2013, our directors and executive officers together beneficially owned approximately 11% of our outstanding common stock. This group has significant influence over our management and affairs and overall matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. This concentrated control will limit the ability of other shareholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that some of its shareholders do not view as beneficial. In addition, such concentrated control could discourage others from initiating changes of control. As a result, the market price of our shares could be adversely affected.The exercise of warrants or options may depress our stock price and may result in dilution to our common stockholders.There are a significant number of outstanding options and warrants to purchase our stock. If the market price of our common stock rises above the exercise price of outstanding warrants and options, holders of those securities may be likely to exercise their warrants and options and sell the common stock acquired upon exercise in the open market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by holders of warrants and options may depress the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if the holders of outstanding options and warrants exercise those options or warrants, our common stockholders will incur dilution in their relative percentage ownership.As of December 31, 2013, warrants to purchase 1,284,816 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $0.90 per share were outstanding and exercisable; options to purchase 15,375,960 shares of common stock were outstanding, at a weighted average exercise price of $2.46 per share, of which 6,807,732 were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of $1.33 per share.Our common stock may be thinly traded.At times the public market for our common stock has been minimal. We cannot be certain more of a public market for our common stock will continue to develop, or if developed, that it will be sustained. Our common stock will likely be thinly traded compared to larger more widely known companies. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained at any time in the future. If we are unable to develop or sustain a market for our common stock, investors may be unable to sell the common stock they own, and may lose the entire value of their investment.Securities analysts may elect not to report on our common stock or may issue negative reports that adversely affect the stock price.At this time, four securities analysts provide research coverage of our common stock. However, there is no assurance that these analysts will continue to report on our common stock or that additional analysts will initiate reporting on our common stock. Rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and a global settlement reached in 2003 among the SEC, other regulatory agencies, and a number of investment banks led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, many investment banking firms are required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. It may remain difficult for a company such as ours, with a smaller market capitalization, to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. If securities analysts discontinue covering our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect its actual and potential market price. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about our business. If one 26or more analysts elect to cover us and then downgrade the stock, the stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our shares. We do not intend to pay cash dividends.We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently expect to use available funds and any future earnings in the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility we may obtain may preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be an investor's only source of potential gain from our common stock for the foreseeable future.We and certain of our executive officers have been named as defendants in recently initiated class action lawsuits that could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention.We, and certain of our executive officers, have been named as defendants in purported class action lawsuits that allege violations of federal securities laws related to various statements regarding our belief that FDA approval was not required to market our products, including our micronized products. We intend to engage in a vigorous defense of such litigation.In addition, the volatility in our stock price may make us more vulnerable to future class action litigation. Any adverse judgment in or settlement of the pending or any future litigation could require payments that exceed the limits of our available directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition.Provisions of Florida law and anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to shareholders, which could affect our share price adversely and prevent attempts by shareholders to remove current management.We are subject to the Florida affiliated transactions statute, which generally requires approval by the disinterested directors or supermajority approval by shareholders for "affiliated transactions" between a corporation and an "interested stockholder." Additionally our organizational documents contain provisions:·Authorizing the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior common stock shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock;·Restricting persons who may call shareholder meetings;·Electing directors on a staggered basis; and.Allowing the Board to fill vacancies and to fix the number of directors.These provisions of Florida law and tour articles of incorporation and bylaws could negatively affect our share price, prevent attempts by shareholders to remove current management, prohibit or delay mergers or other takeovers or changes of control of the Company and discourage attempts by other companies to acquire us, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.27