Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our common stock. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial results, financial condition and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Our operations are subject to geologic, equipment and operational risks, including events beyond our control, which could result in higher operating expenses and/or decreased production and sales and adversely affect our operating results. Our coal mining operations are conducted in underground and surface mines. The level of our production at these mines is subject to operating conditions and events beyond our control that could disrupt operations, affect production and the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time and have a significant impact on our operating results. Adverse operating conditions and events that coal producers have experienced in the past include changes or variations in geologic conditions, such as the thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit; mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; adverse weather and natural disasters, such as snowstorms, ice storms, heavy rains and flooding; accidental mine water inflows and unexpected mine safety accidents, including fires and explosions from methane and other sources. Our Federal mine experienced two roof falls during the first quarter of 2008 and experienced hard cutting and soft floor conditions in the second half of 2008, leading to reduced productivity. Also in the second half of 2008, our Panther mine experienced sandstone intrusions that led to hard cutting conditions. The decrease in production caused by each of these events resulted in us invoking the force majeure provisions of several coal sales contracts, requiring us to make up lost tonnages in certain instances during 2009. If any of these conditions or events occur in the future at any of our mines or affect deliveries of our coal to customers, they may increase our cost of mining, delay or halt production at particular mines, or negatively impact sales to our customers either permanently or for varying lengths of time, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot assure you that these risks would be fully covered by our insurance policies. In addition, the geological characteristics of underground coal reserves in Appalachia and the Illinois Basin, such as rock intrusions, overmining, undermining and coal seam thickness, make these coal reserves complex and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be mineable at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. These factors could materially and adversely affect the mining operations and the cost structures of, and customers’ willingness to purchase coal produced by, our mines. 23 Table of Contents A decline in coal prices could reduce our revenues and the value of our coal reserves. Our results of operations are dependent upon the prices we charge for our coal as well as our ability to maximize productivity and control costs. Declines in the prices we receive for our coal could adversely affect our operating results and our ability to generate the cash flows we require to fund our existing operations and obligations, improve our productivity and reinvest in our business. The prices we receive for coal depend upon numerous factors beyond our control, including coal and power market conditions, weather patterns affecting energy demand, competition in our industry, availability and costs of competing energy resources, worldwide economic and political conditions, economic strength and political stability in the U.S. and countries in which we have customers, the outcome of commercial negotiations involving sales contracts or other transactions, customer performance and credit risk, availability and costs of transportation, our ability to respond to changing customer preferences, reductions of purchases by major customers, and legislative and regulatory developments, including new environmental regulations affecting the use of coal, such as mercury and carbon dioxide-related limitations. Any material decrease in demand would cause coal prices to decline and require us to decrease costs in order to maintain our margins. The recent downturn in the domestic and international financial markets, and the risk of prolonged global recessionary conditions, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because we sell substantially all of our coal to electric utilities and steel mills, our business and results of operations remain closely linked to global demand for electricity and steel production. The recent downturn in the domestic and international financial markets has created economic uncertainty and raised the risk of prolonged global recessionary conditions. Historically, global demand for basic inputs, including electricity and steel production, has decreased during periods of economic downturn. If the recent downturn in the domestic and international financial markets, or the onset of global recessionary conditions, decreases global demand for electricity and steel production, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our operations may depend on the availability of additional financing and access to funds under our credit facility. We expect to have sufficient liquidity to support the development of our business. In the future, however, we may require additional financing for liquidity, capital requirements and growth initiatives. We are dependent on our ability to generate cash flows from operations and to borrow funds and issue securities in the capital markets to maintain and expand our business. We may need to incur debt on terms and at interest rates that may not be as favorable as they were in the past. Our current credit facility is comprised of a group of lenders, each of which has severally agreed to make loans to us under the facility. Currently each of these lenders has met their individual obligation; however, based on the recent instability related to financial institutions we can make no assurances that all future obligations will be met. A failure by one or more of the participants to meet its obligation in the future could have a materially adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. The credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. The market for new debt financing is extremely limited and in some cases not available at all. Any inability by us to obtain financing in the future on favorable terms could have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. As our coal supply agreements expire, our revenues and operating profits could be negatively impacted if we are unable to extend existing agreements or enter new long-term supply agreements due to competition, changing coal purchasing patterns or other variables. As our coal supply agreements expire, we will compete with other coal suppliers to obtain business. If we cannot renew these coal supply agreements with our customers or find alternate customers willing to purchase our coal at market prices, our revenue and operating profits could suffer. We continue to supply coal to Peabody under contracts that existed at the date of spin-off. Contracts with Peabody to purchase coal sourced from our operations accounted for 43% of our combined revenues for 2008, compared to 96% of our revenue in 2007. 24 Table of Contents Our customers may decide not to extend existing agreements or enter into new long-term contracts or, in the absence of long-term contracts, may decide to purchase fewer tons of coal than in the past or on different terms, including under different pricing terms. The recent global recession has resulted in decreased demand worldwide for steel and electricity. This decrease in demand may cause our customers to delay negotiations for new contracts and request lower pricing terms. Furthermore, uncertainty caused by laws and regulations affecting electric utilities could deter our customers from entering into long-term coal supply agreements. Some long-term contracts contain provisions for termination due to environmental changes if these changes prohibit utilities from burning the contracted coal. To the degree that we operate outside of long-term contracts, our revenues are subject to pricing in the spot market that can be significantly more volatile than the pricing structure negotiated through a long-term coal supply agreement. This volatility could adversely affect the profitability of our operations if spot market pricing for coal becomes unfavorable. In a limited number of contracts, failure of the parties to agree on price adjustments may allow either party to terminate the contract. Coal supply agreements typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or the customer during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most of our coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as heat value, sulfur content, ash content, chlorine content, hardness and ash fusion temperature in the case of thermal coal. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, purchasing replacement coal in a higher priced open market, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. Many agreements also contain provisions that permit the parties to adjust the contract price upward or downward for specific events, including inflation or deflation, changes in the factors affecting the cost of producing coal, such as taxes, fees, royalties and changes in the law regulating the timing, production, sale or use of coal. Moreover, some of these agreements permit the customer to terminate the contract if transportation costs, which are typically borne by the customer, increase substantially or in the event of changes in regulations affecting the coal industry, that increase the price of coal beyond specified amounts. Any change in coal consumption patterns, in particular by United States electric power generators or steel producers, could result in a decrease in the use of coal by those consumers, which could result in lower prices for our coal, a reduction in our revenues and an adverse impact on our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. Thermal coal accounted for approximately 79%, 77% and 77% of our coal sales volume during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The majority of our sales of thermal coal was to U.S. electric power generators. The amount of coal consumed for U.S. electric power generation is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity; the location, availability, quality and price of competing fuels for power such as natural gas, nuclear, fuel oil and alternative energy sources such as wind and hydroelectric power; technological developments; limitations on financings for coal-fueled power plants and governmental regulations, including increasing difficulties in obtaining permits for coal-fueled power plants and more burdensome restrictions in the permits received for such facilities. In addition, the increasingly stringent requirements of the Clean Air Act or other laws and regulations, including tax credits that have been or may be provided for alternative energy sources and renewable energy mandates that have been or may be imposed on utilities, may result in more electric power generators shifting away from coal-fueled generation, the closure of existing coal-fueled plants and the building of more non-coal power electrical generating sources in the future. All of the foregoing could reduce demand for our coal, which could reduce our revenues, earnings and the value of our coal reserves. Weather patterns can greatly affect electricity generation. Extreme temperatures, both hot and cold, cause increased power usage and, therefore, increased generating requirements from all sources. Mild temperatures, on the other hand, result in lower electrical demand, which allows generators to choose the lowest-cost sources of power generation when deciding which sources to utilize. Accordingly, significant changes in weather patterns could reduce the demand for our coal. Overall economic activity and the associated demands for power by industrial users can also have significant effects on overall electricity demand. Deterioration in U.S. electric power demand would reduce the demand for our thermal coal and could impact the collectability of our accounts receivable from electric utility customers. 25 Table of Contents Metallurgical coal accounted for approximately 21%, 23% and 23% of our coal sales volume during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. A significant portion of our sales of metallurgical coal was to the U.S. steel industry. The majority of our metallurgical coal production is priced annually, and as a result, a decrease in near term metallurgical coal prices could decrease our profitability. The recent global recession has resulted in decreased demand worldwide for steel and electricity. Deterioration in global steel production reduces the demand for our metallurgical coal and resulted in customer deferrals and cancellations of deliveries in the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, the steel industry increasingly relies on electric arc furnaces or pulverized coal processes to make steel. These processes do not use furnace coke, an intermediate product produced from metallurgical coal. Therefore, growth in future steel production may not represent increased demand for metallurgical coal. If the demand or pricing for metallurgical coal decreases in the future, the amount of metallurgical coal we sell and prices that we receive for it could decrease, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. Because we sell substantially all of our coal to electric utilities and steel producers, our business and results of operations are closely linked to the global demand for electricity and steel production. Historically, global demand for basic inputs, including for electricity and steel production, has decreased during periods of economic downturn. The recent recession has created economic uncertainty, and electric utilities and steel producers have responded by decreasing production. If the recent global recession results in sustained decreases in the global demand for electricity and steel production, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Any downward pressure on coal prices, whether due to increased use of alternative energy sources, changes in weather patterns, decreases in overall demand or otherwise, would likely reduce our revenues and adversely impact our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. Failures of contractor-operated sources to fulfill the delivery terms of their contracts with us could reduce our profitability. Within our normal mining operations, we utilize third party sources for some coal production, including contract miners, to fulfill deliveries under our coal supply agreements. Approximately 13% of our total sales volume for 2008 was attributable to contractor-operated mines. Certain of our contractor-operated mines have experienced adverse geologic conditions, escalated operating costs and/or financial difficulties that have made their delivery of coal to us at the contracted price difficult or uncertain and, in many instances, these costs have been passed along to us. Our profitability or exposure to loss on transactions or relationships such as these is dependent upon a variety of factors, including the availability and reliability of the third-party supply; the price and financial viability of the third-party supply; our obligation to supply coal to our customers in the event that adverse geologic conditions restrict deliveries from our suppliers; our willingness to reimburse temporary cost increases experienced by third-party coal suppliers; our ability to pass on temporary cost increases to customers; our ability to substitute, when economical, third-party coal sources with internal production or coal purchased in the market; and other factors. A shortage of skilled labor and qualified managers in our operating regions could pose a risk to labor productivity and competitive costs and could adversely affect our profitability. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled laborers with mining experience and proficiency as well as qualified managers and supervisors. In recent years, a shortage of experienced coal miners and managers in Appalachia and the Illinois Basin has at times negatively impacted our production levels and increased our costs. A shortage of experienced labor could have an adverse impact on our productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our coal, which could adversely affect our profitability. A decrease in the availability or increase in costs of key supplies, capital equipment or commodities used in our mining operations could decrease our profitability. Our purchases of some items of underground mining equipment are concentrated with one principal supplier. Further, our coal mining operations use significant amounts of steel, diesel fuel, explosives and tires. The price of each of these materials and supplies rose significantly in the first half of 2008, but prices declined by the end of 2008. Steel is used in roof control for roof bolts that are required by the room-and-pillar method of mining. If the 26 Table of Contents cost of any of these inputs increases significantly, or if a source for such mining equipment or supplies was unavailable to meet our replacement demands, our profitability could be reduced. Increased competition both within the coal industry, and outside of it, such as competition from alternative fuel providers, may adversely affect our ability to sell coal, and any excess production capacity in the industry could put downward pressure on coal prices. The coal industry is intensely competitive both within the industry and with respect to other fuels. The most important factors with which we compete are price, coal quality and characteristics, transportation costs from the mine to the customer and reliability of supply. Our principal competitors include Alliance Resource Partners, L.P., Alpha Natural Resources, Inc., Arch Coal, Inc., CONSOL Energy, Inc., Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc., International Coal Group, Inc., James River Coal Company, Massey Energy Company and Peabody Energy Corporation. We also compete directly with all other Central Appalachian coal producers, as well as producers from other basins including Northern and Southern Appalachia, the Western United States and the Interior United States, and foreign countries, including Colombia, Venezuela, Australia and Indonesia. Depending on the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to currencies of other coal-producing countries, coal from such origins could enjoy cost advantages that we do not have. Several domestic coal-producing regions have lower-cost production than Central Appalachia, including the Powder River Basin in Wyoming. Coal with lower delivered production costs shipped east from western coal mines and from offshore sources can result in increased competition for coal sales in regions historically sourced from Appalachian producers. During the mid-1970s and early 1980s, a growing coal market and increased demand for coal attracted new investors to the coal industry, spurred the development of new mines and resulted in production capacity in excess of market demand throughout the industry. We could experience decreased profitability if future coal production is consistently greater than coal demand. Increases in coal prices could encourage the development of expanded coal producing capacity in the United States and abroad. Any resulting overcapacity from existing or new competitors could reduce coal prices and, therefore, our revenue. We also face competition from renewable energy providers, like wind and solar, and other alternative fuel sources, like natural gas. At the end of 2008, increases in natural gas production and decreases in industrial demand for natural gas caused natural gas prices to decrease and negatively affected U.S. thermal coal prices. Should renewable energy sources become more competitively priced, which may be more likely to occur given the federal tax incentives for alternative fuel sources that are already in place and that may be expanded in the future, or sought after as an energy substitute for fossil fuels, the demand for such fuels may adversely impact the demand for coal. We could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. As of December 31, 2008, Patriot had approximately 4,300 employees. Approximately 47% of the employees at company operations were represented by an organized labor union and they generated approximately 41% of the 2008 sales volume. Relations with our employees and, where applicable organized labor, are important to our success. Union labor is represented by the UMWA under labor agreements which expire December 31, 2011. Our represented workers are in Appalachia and at the Illinois Basin Highland complex. Due to the increased risk of strikes and other work-related stoppages that may be associated with union operations in the coal industry, our competitors who operate without union labor may have a competitive advantage in areas where they compete with our unionized operations. If some or all of our current non-union operations or those of third party contract miners were to become organized, we could incur an increased risk of work stoppages. Our future success depends upon our ability to develop our existing coal reserves and to acquire additional reserves that are economically recoverable. Our recoverable reserves decline as we produce coal. We have not yet applied for the permits required or developed the mines necessary to use all of our proven and probable coal reserves that are economically recoverable. Furthermore, we may not be able to mine all of our proven and probable coal reserves as profitably as we do at our current operations. Our future success depends upon our conducting successful exploration and development activities and acquiring properties containing economically recoverable proven and probable coal 27 Table of Contents reserves. Our current strategy includes using our existing properties and increasing our proven and probable coal reserves through acquisitions of leases and producing properties. Our planned mine development projects and acquisition activities may not result in significant additional proven and probable coal reserves and we may not have continuing success developing additional mines. A substantial portion of our proven and probable coal reserves is not located adjacent to current operations and will require significant capital expenditures to develop. In order to develop our proven and probable coal reserves, we must receive various governmental permits. We make no assurances that we will be able to obtain the governmental permits that we would need to continue developing our proven and probable coal reserves. Our mining operations are conducted on properties owned or leased by us. We may not be able to negotiate new leases from private parties or obtain mining contracts for properties containing additional proven and probable coal reserves or maintain our leasehold interest in properties on which mining operations are not commenced during the term of the lease. Fluctuations in transportation costs, the availability or reliability of transportation facilities and our dependence on a single rail carrier for transport from certain of our mining complexes could affect the demand for our coal or temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers. Coal producers depend upon rail, barge, truck, overland conveyor, ocean-going vessels and port facilities to deliver coal to customers. While our coal customers typically arrange and pay for transportation of coal from the mine or port to the point of use, disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, infrastructure damage, strikes, lock-outs, lack of fuel or maintenance items, transportation delays, lack of port capacity or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to customers and thus could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for our customers, and the cost of transportation is an important factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs, including increases resulting from emission control requirements and fluctuations in the price of diesel fuel and demurrage, could make coal a less competitive source of energy when compared to alternative fuels such as natural gas, or could make Appalachian or Illinois Basin coal production less competitive than coal produced in other regions of the United States or abroad. One of our coal supply agreements, which accounts for less than 10% of 2008 tons sold, permits the customer to terminate such agreement if the barge transportation rates applicable to our shipments increase by more than a specified amount and we do not agree to reduce our selling price by the excess over such amount. Significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition from coal producers in other parts of the country and from abroad. Coordination of the many eastern loading facilities, the large number of small shipments, terrain and labor issues all combine to make shipments originating in the Eastern United States inherently more expensive on a per ton-mile basis than shipments originating in the Western United States. Historically, high coal transportation rates from the western coal producing areas into Central Appalachian markets limited the use of western coal in those markets. However, a decrease in rail rates from the western coal producing areas to markets served by eastern U.S. producers could create major competitive challenges for eastern producers. Increased competition due to changing transportation costs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Coal produced at certain of our mining complexes is transported to its customers by a single rail carrier. If there are significant disruptions in the rail services provided by that carrier or if the rail rates rise significantly, then costs of transportation for our coal could increase substantially. Additionally, if there are disruptions of the transportation services provided by the railroad and we are unable to find alternative transportation providers to ship our coal, our business and profitability could be adversely affected. Failure to obtain or renew surety bonds in a timely manner and on acceptable terms could affect our ability to secure reclamation and employee-related obligations, which could adversely affect our ability to mine coal. U.S. federal and state laws require us to secure certain of our obligations relating to reclaiming lands used for mining, paying federal and state workers’ compensation, and satisfying other miscellaneous obligations. The 28 Table of Contents primary method for us to meet those obligations is to provide a third-party surety bond or letters of credit. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding surety bonds and letters of credit aggregating $505.8 million, of which $227.7 million was for post-mining reclamation, $189.5 million related to workers’ compensation obligations, $49.9 million was for retiree health obligations, $13.4 million was for coal lease obligations and $25.3 million was for other obligations (including collateral for surety companies and bank guarantees, road maintenance and performance guarantees). These bonds are typically renewable on an annual basis and the letters of credit are available through our credit facility. The current economic recession and volatility and disruption in the credit markets could result in surety bond issuers deciding not to continue to renew the bonds or to demand additional collateral upon those renewals. Our failure to maintain, or inability to acquire, surety bonds or to provide a suitable alternative would have a material adverse effect on us. That failure could result from a variety of factors including lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new surety bonds, restrictions on the availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the terms of our credit facility and the exercise by third-party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety. If our business does not generate sufficient cash for operations, we may not be able to repay borrowings under our credit facility or fund other liquidity needs, and the amount of our indebtedness could affect our ability to grow and compete. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and to refinance our debt, if necessary, will depend upon the operating performance of our subsidiaries. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay any borrowings under our credit facility or convertible debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. We also have significant lease and long-term royalty obligations. Our ability to meet our debt, lease and royalty obligations will depend upon the operating performance of our subsidiaries, which will be affected by economic conditions and a variety of other business factors, many of which are beyond our control. The amount of our indebtedness, as well as the recent global recession, could have significant consequences, including, but not limited to: (i) limiting our ability to pay principal on our obligations; (ii) limiting our ability to refinance the revolver under our credit facility, which expires October 2011, or our convertible debt, which matures on May 31, 2013, on commercially reasonable terms, or terms acceptable to us or at all; (iii) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditures, future acquisitions, working capital or other general corporate requirements; (iv) placing us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors with lower amounts of debt; and (v) limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the coal industry. Any inability by us to obtain financing in the future on favorable terms could have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The acquisition of Magnum presents integration challenges and incremental costs. The acquisition of Magnum was consummated on July 23, 2008. While we have made significant progress towards the integration of the two companies, we may face challenges in combining Magnum’s operations into our operations in a timely and efficient manner. The integration of the two companies requires resources and management attention in the areas of information technology, human resources, land management and finance. The failure to successfully integrate Magnum and to successfully manage the challenges presented by the integration process may result in us not achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger. Although we expect that the realization of efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will offset incremental integration and restructuring costs over time, we cannot give any assurance that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, if at all. The covenants in our credit facility and other debt indentures impose restrictions that could limit our operational and financial flexibility. The credit facility contains certain customary covenants, including financial covenants limiting our total indebtedness (maximum leverage ratio of 2.75) and requiring minimum EBITDA coverage of interest expense (minimum interest coverage ratio of 4.0), as well as certain limitations on, among other things, additional debt, liens, investments, acquisitions and capital expenditures, future dividends, common stock repurchases and asset 29 Table of Contents sales. Compliance with debt covenants may limit our ability to draw on our credit facility. In addition, the indenture for our convertible notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the notes. These and other provisions could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our stockholders. Inaccuracies in our estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs or decreased profitability. We base our proven and probable coal reserve information on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff, which includes various engineers and geologists, and outside firms. The reserve estimates as to both quantity and quality are annually updated to reflect production of coal from the reserves and new drilling or other data received. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves and net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions relating to geological and mining conditions, relevant historical production statistics, the assumed effects of regulation and taxes, future coal prices, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities and qualities attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of coal reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of net cash flows expected from particular reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties and revenues and expenditures with respect to our proven and probable coal reserves may vary materially from estimates. These estimates, thus, may not accurately reflect our actual coal reserves. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our proven and probable coal reserves could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs or decreased profitability. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel or fail to attract qualified personnel. We manage our business with a number of key personnel, the loss of a number of whom could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, as our business develops and expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. We cannot be certain that key personnel will continue to be employed by us or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. We could be adversely affected by a decline in the creditworthiness or financial condition of our customers. A substantial portion of our revenues is generated through sales to a marketing affiliate of Peabody, and we supply coal to Peabody on a contract basis so Peabody can meet its commitments under pre-existing customer agreements sourced from our operations. Our remaining sales are made directly to electric utilities, industrial companies and steelmakers. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. Our customer base has changed with deregulation as some utilities have sold their power plants to their non-regulated affiliates or third parties. These new power plant owners or other customers may have credit ratings that are below investment grade. If the creditworthiness of our customers declines significantly and customers fail to stay current on their payments, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, many companies are struggling to maintain their business given the current economic conditions. If any of our customers are significantly and negatively impacted by the current economic conditions, or by other business factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Any defects in title of leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to mine these properties or could result in significant unanticipated costs. We conduct a significant part of our mining operations on properties that we lease. These leases were entered into over a period of many years by certain of our predecessors and title to our leased properties and mineral rights 30 Table of Contents may not be thoroughly verified until a permit to mine the property is obtained. Our right to mine some of our proven and probable coal reserves may be materially adversely affected if there were defects in title or boundaries. In order to obtain leases or mining contracts to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we may in the future have to incur unanticipated costs, which could adversely affect our profitability. The ownership and voting interest of Patriot stockholders could be diluted as a result of the issuance of shares of our common stock to the holders of convertible notes upon conversion. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of the convertible notes could dilute the interests of Patriot’s existing stockholders. The convertible notes are convertible at the option of the holders during the period from issuance to February 15, 2013 into a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, unless we elect to deliver cash in lieu of the common stock portion. The number of shares of our common stock that we may deliver upon conversion will depend on the price of our common stock during an observation period as described in the indenture. Specifically, the number of shares deliverable upon conversion will increase as the common stock price increases above the conversion price of $67.67 per share during the observation period. The maximum number of shares that we may deliver is 2,955,560. However, if certain fundamental changes occur in our business that are deemed “make-whole fundamental changes” as defined by the indenture, the number of shares deliverable on conversion may increase, up to a maximum amount of 4,137,788 shares. These maximum amounts, the conversion rate and conversion price are subject to adjustment for certain dilutive events, such as a stock split or a distribution of a stock dividend. The net share settlement feature of our convertible notes may have adverse consequences on our liquidity. We will pay an amount in cash equal to the aggregate principal portion of our convertible notes calculated as described under the indenture for the convertible notes. Because we must settle at least a portion of the conversion obligation with regard to the convertible notes in cash, the conversion of our convertible notes may significantly reduce our liquidity. Peabody and its shareholders who received Patriot shares at the time of the spin-off could be subject to material amounts of taxes if the spin-off is determined to be a taxable transaction. On September 26, 2007, Peabody received a ruling from the IRS to the effect that the spin-off qualified as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Code. The IRS did not rule on whether the spin-off satisfied certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code. Therefore, in addition to obtaining the ruling from the IRS, Peabody received a favorable opinion from Ernst & Young LLP as to the satisfaction of these qualifying conditions required for the application of Section 355 to the spin-off. Ernst & Young LLP’s tax opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts. The letter ruling and the Ernst & Young LLP opinion relied on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the letter ruling nor the Ernst & Young LLP opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. Moreover, the letter ruling did not address all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution would qualify for tax-free treatment. Notwithstanding the letter ruling and the Ernst & Young LLP opinion, the IRS could determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the Ernst & Young LLP opinion that are not covered by the letter ruling. If, notwithstanding the letter ruling and opinion, the spin-off is determined to be a taxable transaction, Peabody shareholders who received Patriot shares at the time of the spin-off and Peabody could be subject to material amounts of taxes. Patriot could be liable to Peabody for adverse tax consequences resulting from certain change in control transactions and therefore could be prevented from engaging in strategic or capital raising transactions. Peabody could recognize taxable gain if the spin-off is determined to be part of a plan or series of related transactions pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, stock representing a 50% or greater interest in either Peabody or Patriot. Under the Code, any acquisitions of Peabody or Patriot within the four-year period beginning two years before the date of the spin-off are presumed to be part of such a plan unless they are 31 Table of Contents covered by at least one of several mitigating rules established by IRS regulations. Nonetheless, a merger, recapitalization or acquisition, or issuance or redemption of Patriot common stock after the spin-off could, in some circumstances, be counted toward the 50% change of ownership threshold. The tax separation agreement precludes Patriot from engaging in some of these transactions unless Patriot first obtains a tax opinion acceptable to Peabody or an IRS ruling to the effect that such transactions will not result in additional taxes. The tax separation agreement further requires Patriot to indemnify Peabody for any resulting taxes regardless of whether Patriot first obtains such opinion or ruling. As a result, Patriot may not be able to engage in strategic or capital raising transactions that stockholders might consider favorable, or to structure potential transactions in the manner most favorable to Patriot. Although not required pursuant to the terms of the tax separation agreement, in connection with the execution of the Magnum merger agreement, Patriot obtained an opinion dated April 2, 2008 from Ernst & Young LLP to the effect that the issuance of the Patriot common stock pursuant to the merger agreement would not result in an acquisition of a 50% or greater interest in Patriot within the meaning of Sections 355(d)(4) and (3)(4)(A) of the Code. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers or the economy as a whole may materially adversely affect our operations or those of our customers. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to our customers, decreased sales of our coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. Any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Environmental and Other Regulation Concerns about the environmental impacts of air emissions relating to coal mining and coal combustion, particularly the impact of greenhouse gas emissions on global climate change, are resulting in increased regulation of our industry and could significantly affect demand for our products and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our operations and those of our customers are subject to extensive environmental regulation relating to air emissions of pollutants, including sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury, and particulate matter. Costs related to these requirements can be significant, particularly for our customers. As environmental regulation and enforcement becomes more stringent over time, these costs are likely to increase and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Considerable and increasing government attention in the United States and elsewhere is being paid to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, particularly from coal combustion power plants, which are the largest end-users of our coal. Legislators are considering the passage of significant new laws and regulators are considering using existing laws, including the Clean Air Act, to limit greenhouse gas emissions, and tax incentives and other measures are being imposed or offered by various laws and governmental agencies with the ultimate goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. For instance, Congress is expected to evaluate greenhouse gas legislation, perhaps in the coming year, and the EPA currently is seeking public comment on the feasibility of regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. The EPA has also announced that it will reconsider an interpretive memo it had released in December 2008 declaring that carbon dioxide is not currently subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act’s Prevention of Significant Deterioration permit program, and will publish a notice of proposed rulemaking relating to that reconsideration in the near future. Many states have adopted measures, sometimes as part of a regional collaboration, to reduce greenhouse gases generated within their own jurisdiction. These measures include emission regulations, mandates for utilities to generate a portion of their electricity without using coal, incentives or goals for generating electricity using renewable resources, and moratoriums on new coal fueled power plants. Some 32 Table of Contents municipalities have also adopted similar measures. As new requirements are imposed, we and our customers may be materially adversely affected. Demand for and use of coal also may be limited by any global treaties which place restrictions on carbon dioxide emissions. As part of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, representatives from 187 nations met in Bali, Indonesia in December 2007 to discuss a program to limit greenhouse gas emissions after 2012. The United States participated in the conference. The convention adopted what is called the “Bali Action Plan.” The Bali Action Plan contains no binding commitments, but concludes that “deep cuts in global emissions will be required” and provides a timetable for two years of talks to shape the first formal addendum to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change treaty since the Kyoto Protocol. The ultimate outcome of the Bali Action Plan, and any treaty or other arrangement ultimately adopted by the United States or other countries, may have an adverse impact on the global supply and demand for coal, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, proposed coal-fueled electric generating facilities are facing both increasing opposition, including through litigation, from environmental groups who are concerned with, among other things, global climate change as well as the uncertain financial impact of potential greenhouse gas regulations. As a result of all of the above, certain power generating companies may reconsider plans to build or significantly modify coal-fueled plants or may elect to build capacity using alternative forms of electrical generation in the near-term and beyond. Any movement away from the use of coal could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We may be unable to obtain, renew or comply with permits necessary for our operation, which could reduce our production, cash flows and profitability. Mining companies must obtain numerous permits and approvals that impose strict requirements relating to environmental and safety matters. These include permits issued by various federal and state agencies and regulatory bodies. We have at times been unable to comply with all applicable requirements, and such failure has resulted in the past, and may in the future result in, lawsuits against us by regulators or private parties and has in the past and may in the future require us to pay material fines or penalties. In addition, because the permitting rules are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time, it may be even more difficult or even impossible to obtain, renew or comply with applicable requirements in the future, which could preclude continuing or future mining operations. Private individuals and the public have certain rights to comment upon, submit objections to, and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through court intervention. Some permit programs necessary to the operation of coal companies, such as the authorizations issued under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, have been subject to recent and significant legal challenges. In addition, companies in the coal industry, including some of our subsidiaries, have been subject to a number of governmental investigations and court cases relating to a failure to comply with the terms of existing Clean Water Act permits or objecting to the issuance or terms of Clean Water Act permits. As a result of the foregoing, it has become more difficult, takes longer and costs more to obtain and maintain permits necessary for our operations, and in some cases the permits we need may not be issued, maintained or renewed in a timely fashion, may be subject to additional future challenges and may impose extremely burdensome conditions on our operations and activities. In addition, we have recently been issued court orders or have settled cases relating to Clean Water Act permits and we may in the future be issued additional court orders or be required to enter into new settlements, all of which may require us to pay material fines or penalties, undertake time-consuming and expensive investigations, and make changes or shutdown some of our operations. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our production, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 33 Table of Contents Like many of our competitors, we cannot always completely comply with permit restrictions relating to the discharge of selenium into surface water, which has led to court challenges and related orders and settlements, has required us to pay fines and penalties, is requiring us to incur other significant costs and may be difficult to resolve in a timely basis given current technology. Selenium is a naturally occurring substance that is discharged to surface water when our mine tailings are exposed to rain and other natural elements. Many coal companies that have surface mining operations in Appalachia have similar risks relating to the discharge of selenium. Some of our permits have currently effective limits on the selenium that can be discharged, and other permits have limits that will be effective in the future. There is currently no reasonably available technology that has been proven to effectively address selenium exceedances in permitted water discharges, and as a result the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection (WVDEP) deferred most of the obligations of our company and of other coal companies to comply with any selenium discharge limit obligations until April 2010. However, a federal court decision determined that the deferral of the obligations with respect to a permit of Apogee Coal Company, LLC (Apogee), one of Magnum’s subsidiaries, failed to meet certain procedural requirements, and as a result ordered Apogee to develop and implement a treatment plan relating to the outfalls governed by that permit, or to show cause of its inability to do so. In addition, as a result of a lawsuit filed by the WVDEP in state court in West Virginia, Hobet Mining, LLC (Hobet), a subsidiary of Magnum, has entered into a settlement agreement with the WVDEP requiring Hobet to pay fines and penalties with respect to past violations of selenium limitations under four NPDES permits, to meet permit limitations on selenium by December 31, 2009 with respect to one permit, and to study potential treatments to address the selenium discharges. As a result of the above, we are actively engaged in studying potential solutions to controlling selenium discharges and we have been installing test treatment facilities at various permitted outfalls. Because the levels and frequency of selenium discharges at any given outfall will be different, the solution for each outfall may be very different and a variety of solutions will therefore ultimately be required. The potential solutions identified to date, some of which have been provided to the federal court in West Virginia, have not been proven to be effective and otherwise may not be feasible due to a range of problems concerning technological issues, prohibitive implementation costs and other issues. While we are actively continuing to explore options, there can be no assurance as to when a definitive solution will be identified and implemented. As a result, it is possible that we will be unable to meet either the court order or WVDEP settlement deadlines or the ultimate April 2010 deadline. While these selenium discharge issues generally relate to historical rather than ongoing mining operations, any failure to meet the deadlines or to otherwise comply with selenium limits in our permits could result in further litigation against us, an inability to obtain new permits or to maintain existing permits, the incurrence of significant and material fines and penalties or other costs and could otherwise materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Any restrictions on the disposal of mining spoil material could significantly increase our operating costs and materially harm our financial condition and operating results. As is the case with other coal mining companies operating in Appalachia, our construction and mining activities, including our mountaintop removal mining operations, frequently require, and depend on, the use of valley fills for the disposal of excess spoil (rock and soil material). These operations require us to obtain Section 404 Clean Water Act permits from ACOE to construct and operate valley fills and surface impoundments. During the last few years, certain environmental groups have filed lawsuits challenging the ACOE’s authority to issue Section 404 Clean Water Act permits relating to valley fills and surface impoundments and, in some instances, environmental groups have also sought to enjoin the use of such permits previously issued by the ACOE. While a recent federal court decision held that ACOE had the authority to issue certain 404 Clean Water Act permits known as individual permits, other court cases permitting the issuance of certain 404 Clean Water Act permits known as nationwide permits are still under appeal. As a result, there can be no assurance that future laws or judicial rulings will not adversely affect the issuance of or the renewal or ongoing use of valley fill or surface impoundment permits under the Clean Water Act. If these mining methods are limited or prohibited, it could significantly increase our operational costs and make it more difficult to economically recover a significant portion of our reserves. In the event that we cannot increase the price we charge for coal to cover the higher production costs without reducing customer demand for our coal, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to us. Certain of our current and historical coal mining operations have used hazardous materials and, to the extent that such materials are not recycled, they could become hazardous waste. We may be subject to claims under federal and state statutes and/or common law doctrines for toxic torts and other damages, as well as for natural resource damages and the investigation and remediation of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media under laws such as CERCLA, commonly known as Superfund. Such claims may arise, for example, out of current or former conditions at sites that we own or operate currently, as well as at sites that we and companies we acquired owned or operated in the past, and at contaminated sites that have always been owned or operated by third parties. Liability may be without regard to fault and may be strict, joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share. We maintain coal slurry impoundments at a number of our mines. Such impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. Structural failure of an impoundment can result in extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, such as streams or bodies of water and wildlife, as well as related personal injuries and property damages which in turn can give rise to extensive liability. Some of our impoundments overlie areas where some mining has occurred, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of damages arising out of failure. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. A recent well publicized failure of an ash slurry impoundment maintained by the Tennessee Valley Authority has led to new legislative and regulatory proposals that, if enacted, may impose significant obligations on us or our customers. In addition, the EPA administrator has publicly called for more inspections of coal slurry impoundments. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could adversely affect us. Our mining operations are extensively regulated, which imposes significant costs on us, and future regulations or violations of regulations could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal. Federal and state authorities regulate the coal mining industry with respect to matters such as employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, the protection of the environment, plants and wildlife, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. We are required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. In addition, significant legislation mandating specified benefits for retired coal miners affects our industry. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these regulations are often costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production. New or revised legislation or administrative regulations (or judicial or administrative interpretations of existing laws and regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the environment or employee health and safety that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us or our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs, which may materially adversely affect our mining operations and our cost structure. The majority of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser’s plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In the event of certain violations of safety rules, the Mine Safety and Health Administration may order the temporary closure of mines. Our customers may challenge our issuance of force majeure notices in connection with such closures. If these challenges are successful, we could be obligated to make up lost shipments, to reimburse customers for the additional costs to purchase replacement coal, or, in some cases, to terminate certain sales contracts. 35 Table of Contents We are involved in legal proceedings that if determined adversely to us, could significantly impact our profitability, financial position or liquidity. We are involved in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Some of the lawsuits seek fines or penalties and damages in very large amounts, or seek to restrict our business activities. In particular, we are subject to legal proceedings relating to our receipt of and compliance with permits under the Clean Water Act and to other legal proceedings relating to environmental matters involving current and historical operations and ownership of land. It is currently unknown what the ultimate resolution of these proceedings will be, but the costs of resolving these proceedings could be material, and could result in an obligation to change our operations in a manner that could have an adverse effect on us. We have significant reclamation and mine closure obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, or SMCRA, establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as most aspects of deep mining. We calculated the total estimated reclamation and mine-closing liabilities according to the guidance provided by U.S. accounting standards. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements and our engineering expertise related to these requirements. As of December 31, 2008, we had accrued reserves of $121.6 million for reclamation liabilities and mine closures and an additional $102.6 million for medical benefits for employees due to mine closure. The estimate of ultimate reclamation liability is reviewed annually by our management and engineers. The estimated liability could change significantly if actual costs vary from assumptions, if the underlying facts change or if governmental requirements change significantly. If our assumptions regarding our likely future expenses related to employee benefit plans are incorrect, then expenditures for these benefits could be materially higher than we have assumed. We provide post-retirement health and life insurance benefits to eligible union and non-union employees. We calculated the total accumulated postretirement benefit obligation according to the guidance provided by U.S. accounting standards. We estimated the present value of the obligation to be $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2008. We have estimated these unfunded obligations based on actuarial assumptions described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially higher. Due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans and statutory retiree healthcare plans, we may have exposure that extends beyond what our obligations would be with respect to our employees. Certain of our subsidiaries participate in two defined benefit multi-employer pension funds that were established as a result of collective bargaining with the UMWA pursuant to the 2007 NBCWA as periodically negotiated. These plans provide pension and disability pension benefits to qualifying represented employees retiring from a participating employer where the employee last worked prior to January 1, 1976, in the case of the UMWA 1950 Pension Plan, or after December 31, 1975, in the case of the UMWA 1974 Pension Plan. In December 2006, the 2007 NBCWA was signed, which required funding of the 1974 Pension Plan through 2011 under a phased funding schedule. The funding is based on an hourly rate for active UMWA workers. Under the labor contract, the per hour funding rate increased to $3.50 in 2008 and will increase each year thereafter until reaching $5.50 in 2011. Our subsidiaries with UMWA-represented employees are required to contribute to the 1974 Pension Plan at the new hourly rates. Contributions to these funds could increase as a result of future collective bargaining with the UMWA, a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency of other coal companies who currently contribute to these funds, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. The 2006 Act authorized $490 million in general fund revenues to pay for certain benefits, including the healthcare costs under the Combined Fund, 1992 Benefit Plan and 1993 Benefit Plan for “orphans” who are retirees and their dependents. Under the 2006 Act, these orphan benefits will be the responsibility of the federal government on a phased-in basis through 2012. If Congress were to amend or repeal the 2006 Act or if the $490 million authorization were insufficient to pay for these healthcare costs, certain of our subsidiaries, along with other contributing employers and their affiliates, would be responsible for the excess costs. Our aggregate cash payments 36 Table of Contents to the Combined Fund, 1992 Benefit Plan and 1993 Benefit Plan were $17.9 million and $21.4 million during 2008 and 2007, respectively. We could be liable for certain retiree healthcare obligations to be assumed by Peabody in connection with the spin-off. In connection with the spin-off, a Peabody subsidiary assumed certain retiree healthcare obligations of Patriot and its subsidiaries having a present value of $597.6 million as of December 31, 2008. These obligations arise under the Coal Act, the 2007 NBCWA and predecessor agreements and a subsidiary’s salaried retiree healthcare plan. Although the Peabody subsidiary is obligated to pay such obligations, certain Patriot subsidiaries also remain jointly and severally liable for the Coal Act obligations, and secondarily liable for the assumed 2007 NBCWA obligations and retiree healthcare obligations for certain participants under a subsidiary’s retiree healthcare plan. As a consequence, Patriot’s recorded retiree healthcare obligations and related cash costs could increase substantially if the Peabody subsidiary would fail to perform its obligations under the liability assumption agreements. These additional liabilities and costs, if incurred, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 