D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results are subject to conditions typically affecting the lodging industry. Our operating results are subject to conditions typically affecting the lodging industry, including the following: • changes in the national, regional or local economic conditions; • natural disasters or travelers’ fears of exposure to serious contagious diseases; • the attractiveness of our hotels to customers and competition from other hotels; • local market conditions such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, hotel rooms; 6 Table of Contents • the performance of managerial and other employees of our hotels; and • increases in operating costs and expenses due to inflation and other factors. Changes in any of these conditions could adversely affect our occupancy rates, average daily rates and RevPAR or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to manage our expected expansion, which could adversely affect our operating results. Since our inception, we have experienced substantial growth in our hotel network. We have increased the number of our hotels in operation in China from five in 2002 to 471 (with another 114 hotels under development) as of December 31, 2008. We intend to continue to develop or acquire additional hotels in different geographic locations in China and increase our number of hotels in operation. In addition, we may introduce and offer new hotel products from time to time. For example, in 2008, we introduced a new H Hotel product and opened the first H Hotel in Shanghai, China. Our expansion has placed, and will continue to place, substantial demands on our managerial, operational, technological and other resources. Our planned expansion will also require us to maintain the consistency of each of our products and the quality of our services to ensure that our brands do not suffer as a result of any deviations, whether actual or perceived, in the consistency of each of our products and the quality of our services. In order to manage and support our growth, we must continue to improve our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial and management controls, and recruit, train and retain qualified hotel management personnel as well as other administrative and sales and marketing personnel, particularly as we expand into new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations, recruit and retain qualified personnel and integrate new hotels into our operations. Any failure to effectively and efficiently manage our expansion may materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. Expansion into new geographic markets and addition of new hotel products for which we have limited operating experience and brand recognition may present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those that we currently encounter in our existing markets for our Home Inn hotels. In addition, our expansion within existing markets may adversely affect the financial performance of our existing hotels in those markets and, as a result, negatively affect our overall results of operations. Our inability to anticipate the changing demands that expanding our operations will impose on our management and information and operational systems, or our failure to quickly adapt our systems and procedures to the new markets could result in lost revenue and increased expenses and otherwise harm our results of operations and financial condition. We committed significant resources to the acquisition and integration of Top Star, and will continue to invest in the rebranding of the Top Star hotels to Home Inns. If we cannot improve the performance of these acquired hotels, our results of operations and return on capital may be materially and adversely affected. We acquired the Top Star hotel chain in October 2007. The addition of Top Star’s hotels expanded our current holding by an additional 25 economy hotels with about 4,000 rooms located in 16 cities across China. Our total consideration for the Top Star acquisition amounted to approximately RMB 350 million, or about RMB 87,500 per room. The acquisition of Top Star exposes us to potential risks, including risks associated with inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of the acquisition, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, and diversion of management attention and resources from our existing business. We took over the operations of the Top Star hotels in November 2007, and have since completed the systems, personnel and operations integration of these hotels. However, the performance of these acquired hotels in general have not met our targets. We believe the causes include the mismatch between certain hotel room features and the preferences of our customers, especially our members, the negative impact resulting from the May 2008 Sichuan earthquake on acquired hotels in the affected region, and the macro economic condition. While we have no control over the external factors, we are responding to the customer preference issue by modifying certain aspects of the acquired hotels’ rooms to make them conform more with our existing Home Inns hotel rooms, and we will rebrand all the acquired Top Star hotels to Home Inns after the modifications are completed. There is no assurance, however, that such efforts will substantially improve the performance of these acquired hotels. 7 Table of Contents Historically, the 25 Top Star legacy hotels as a whole have not been profitable. As such, the inclusion of these hotels in our financial results have had a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2007 and the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008. We cannot assure you when the Top Stars legacy hotels will achieve profitability, if at all. If the value of our brand or image diminishes, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our “Home Inn” brand is associated with a leading economy hotel chain offering cleanness, convenience and comfort with consistent, high-quality service among value-conscious individual business and leisure travelers in China. Our continued success in maintaining and enhancing our brand and image depends, to a large extent, on our ability to satisfy customer needs by further developing and maintaining our innovative and distinctive product and maintaining consistent quality of services across our hotel chain, as well as our ability to respond to competitive pressures. If we are unable to do so, our occupancy rates may decline, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. Our business may also be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be diminished by the operations of any of our hotels, whether due to unsatisfactory service, accidents or otherwise. Our brand is integral to our sales and marketing efforts. If the value of our brand or image is diminished or if our brand does not continue to be attractive to customers, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our effort in developing a new hotel brand, the H Hotel, may divert management attention and resources from our existing business, and if the new product is not well received by the market, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses, and our overall financial performance and condition may be adversely affected. We developed a new hotel brand and product in 2008, the H Hotel, which is positioned to target individual business and leisure customers who have a higher travel budget than our core Home Inns customers, but a lower travel budget than the customers of high star-rated hotels. We opened our first H Hotel, which is a leased-and-operated hotel, in Shanghai, in December 2008. So far we have limited evidence and operational experience to determine if this hotel will be successful, and if the hotel brand has potential for further expansion. If we are not able to hire, train and retain qualified managerial and other employees, our brand and our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our managerial and other employees manage our hotels and interact with our customers on a daily basis. They are critical to maintaining the quality and consistency of our services as well as our established brand and reputation. It is important for us to attract qualified managerial and other employees who have experience in lodging or other consumer-service industries and are committed to our “customer-first” approach. There may be a limited supply of such qualified individuals in some of the cities in China where we have operations and other cities into which we intend to expand. In addition, criteria such as dedication are difficult to ascertain during the recruitment process. We must hire and train qualified managerial and other employees on a timely basis to keep pace with our rapid growth while maintaining consistent quality of services across our hotels in various geographic locations. We must also provide continuous training to our managerial and other employees so that they are equipped with up-to-date knowledge of various aspects of our hotel operations and can meet our demand for high-quality services. If we fail to do so, the quality of our services may decrease in one or more of the markets where we operate, which in turn may have a material and adverse effect on our brand and our business. We may not be able to successfully identify and secure additional hotel properties. We plan to open more hotels in targeted markets to further grow our business. We may not be successful in identifying and leasing or franchising additional hotel properties at desirable locations and on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Some cities in China have undergone economic development and expansion for several decades while others are still at an early stage of development. In more developed cities, it may be difficult to increase the number of hotels because we or our competitors already have operations in such cities. In less developed cities, demand for our hotels may not increase as rapidly as we expect. Even if we are able to successfully identify and acquire new hotel properties via lease or franchise arrangements, new hotels may not generate the returns we expect. We also may incur costs in connection with evaluating hotel properties and negotiating with property owners, including ones that we are subsequently unable to lease or franchise. If we fail to successfully identify or compete for additional hotel properties, our ability to execute our growth strategy could be impaired and our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Future acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire businesses or assets that are complementary to our business. Future acquisitions would expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing business and the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions. Any difficulties encountered in the acquisition and integration process may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Our business is sensitive to the current global economic crisis. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tight credit conditions and recession in most major economies continuing into 2009. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. The grim economic outlook has negatively affected business and consumer confidence and contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. The current deterioration in economic conditions has reduced and could continue to reduce business travel activities. Our operational metrics and results of operations for 2008 were adversely affected by the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter, and there are still great uncertainties regarding the economic conditions and the demand for travel in China for 2009. Continued turbulence in the international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business consumer spending in China may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by epidemics, natural disasters and other catastrophes. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by epidemics, natural disasters and other catastrophes, particularly in locations where we operate a large number of hotels. In early 2003, several economies in Asia, including China, were affected by the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. Our business and results of operations were materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of SARS. In addition, some Asian countries, including China, have encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu. This disease, which originally spread through poultry populations, is capable in some circumstances of being transmitted to humans and is often fatal. More recently, the 2008 Sichuan earthquake also had a negative impact on many businesses in the region, and reduced the operational performance of Home Inns’ existing and acquired hotels in the region due to reduced economic and travel activity in the affected region. As a result of damage caused by the 2008 Sichuan earthquake, seven of our hotels in Chengdu have filed insurance claims of approximately RMB 0.6 million (US$0.1 million). Losses caused by epidemics, natural disasters and other catastrophes, including SARS, avian flu, earthquakes or typhoons, are either uninsurable or too expensive to justify insuring against in China. In the event an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any financial obligations related to the hotel. Similarly, war (including the potential for war), terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity) and travel-related accidents, as well as geopolitical uncertainty and international conflict, will affect travel and may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation. In addition, we may not be adequately prepared in contingency planning or recovery capability in relation to a major incident or crisis, and as a result our operational continuity may be adversely affected and our reputation may be harmed. 9 Table of Contents Our legal right to lease certain properties could be challenged by property owners or other third parties, which could prevent us from continuing to operate the affected hotels or increase the costs associated with operating these hotels. Except for two properties in Chongqing and Luoyang, we do not hold any land-use rights with respect to the land on which our hotels are located nor do we own any of the hotel properties we operate. Instead, our business model relies on leases with third parties who either own the properties or lease the properties from the ultimate property owner. As of December 31, 2008, title certificates for 48 of the properties operated by us had not been obtained. We cannot assure you that title to properties we currently lease or franchise will not be challenged, and such challenges, if successful, could impair the development or operations of our hotels on such properties. In addition, we are subject to the risk of potential disputes with property owners. Such disputes, whether resolved in our favor or not, may divert management attention, harm our reputation or otherwise disrupt our business. In several instances where our immediate lessors are not the ultimate owners of hotel properties, no consent was obtained from the owners to sublease the hotel properties to us. A lessor’s failure to duly obtain the title to the property or to receive any necessary approvals from the ultimate owner or the primary lease holder, as applicable, could potentially invalidate our lease or result in the renegotiation of such lease leading to less favorable terms. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the building ownership or leasehold in connection with our franchised-and-managed hotels will not be subject to similar third-party challenges. Some of the properties we or our franchisees lease from third parties were subject to mortgages at the time the leases were signed. In such circumstances and where consent to the lease was not obtained from the mortgage holder, the lease may not be binding on the transferee of the property if the mortgage holders foreclose on the mortgage and transfer the property, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our ability to operate the hotel facility. The lodging industry in China is highly competitive with relatively low barriers to entry, and if we are unable to compete successfully our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. The lodging industry in China is highly competitive. Competition in the industry is primarily based on room rates, quality of accommodations, brand name recognition, convenience of location, geographic coverage, service quality, range of services, and guest amenities. We compete primarily with other economy hotel chains as well as various regional and local economy hotels. We also compete with two- and three-star hotels, as we offer rooms with standards comparable to many of those hotels while maintaining competitive pricing. In addition, we may also face competition from new entrants in the economy hotel segment in China. As compared to developing four- or five-star hotels, developing economy hotels does not require significant capital commitments or human resources. This relatively low barrier to entry potentially allows new competitors to enter our markets quickly to compete with our business. Furthermore, we compete with all other hotels for guests in each market in which we operate, as our typical business and leisure traveler customers may change their travel, spending and consumption patterns and choose to stay in hotels in different segments. New and existing competitors may offer competitive rates, greater convenience, services or amenities or superior facilities, which could attract customers away from our hotels, resulting in a decrease in occupancy and average daily rates for our hotels. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations and financial condition. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to increase revenue and profitability from our operations. We have a limited operating history, having only commenced operations in 2002. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and challenges encountered by a company with a limited operating history. These risks and challenges include: • the uncertainties associated with our ability to continue our growth while maintaining our profitability; • preserving our competitive position in the economy hotel segment of the lodging industry in China; • offering an innovative product to attract recurring and new customers; • implementing our strategy and modifying it from time to time to respond effectively to competition and changes in customer preferences and needs; 10 Table of Contents • increasing awareness of our “Home Inn” brand and continuing to develop customer loyalty; and • attracting, training, retaining and motivating qualified personnel. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks or challenges, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Failure to retain our senior management could harm our business. We place substantial reliance on the lodging and other consumer-service industry experience and the institutional knowledge of members of our senior management team. Mr. David Jian Sun, our chief executive officer, Ms. May Wu, our chief financial officer, and Mr. Jason Zong, our chief operating officer are particularly important to our future success due to their substantial experience in the lodging and other consumer service industries. We do not carry key person insurance on any of our senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more of these members of our senior management team due to their departure or otherwise could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth strategies. Finding suitable replacements for Mr. Sun, Ms. Wu and Mr. Zong could be difficult, and competition for such personnel of similar experience is intense. If we lose the services of any of them, our business may be adversely affected. Interruption or failure of our information and operational systems could impair our ability to effectively provide our services, which could damage our reputation. Our ability to provide consistent and high-quality services throughout our hotel chain depends on the continued operation of our proprietary information and operational systems, including our property management, central reservation, customer relationship management and management reporting systems. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems could interrupt our service. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, fires, floods, earthquakes, interruptions in access to our toll-free numbers, hacking or other attempts to harm our systems, and similar events. Our servers, which are maintained in Shanghai, may also be vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and vandalism. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all possible scenarios. In addition, our systems and technologies may become outdated and we may not be able to replace or introduce upgraded systems as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs for such upgrades. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, our quality of services and our reputation could be harmed. The steps we need to take to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems may be costly, which could reduce our operating margin, and there can be no assurance that whatever increased reliability may be achievable in practice would justify the costs incurred. Any failure to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our business. We believe our brand, trade name, trademarks and other intellectual property are critical to our success. “Home Inn” is a highly recognized brand in the economy hotel segment of China’s lodging industry. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our brand, trade names and trademarks to increase brand awareness and to further develop our brand. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill. In addition, our proprietary information and operational systems, which have not been patented or otherwise registered as our property, are a key component of our competitive advantage and our growth strategy. Monitoring and preventing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. The measures we take to protect our brand, trade names, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent their unauthorized use by third parties. Furthermore, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China and abroad is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our brand, trade names, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, we may lose these rights and our business may suffer materially. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to various hotel industry, health and safety, and environmental laws and regulations that may subject us to liability. Each hotel that we operate must hold a special industry license issued by the local public security bureau and must have hotel operation included in the business scope of its business license. Our business also is subject to various health and safety and environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations and development activities in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including building, zoning, fire prevention, public safety, health and sanitary requirements. If we fail to comply with any applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations related to our business, we may be subject to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or the suspension of our operations or development activities. Furthermore, new regulations could also require us to retrofit or modify our hotels or incur other significant expenses. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances in our development activities, or to otherwise operate in compliance with environmental laws could also subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or the suspension of our hotel development activities or hotel operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Accidents or injuries in our hotels may adversely affect our reputation and subject us to liability. There are inherent risks of accidents or injuries in hotels. One or more accidents or injuries at any of our hotels could adversely affect our safety reputation among customers and potential customers, decrease our overall occupancy rates and increase our costs by requiring us to take additional measures to make our safety precautions even more visible and effective. If accidents or injuries occur at any of our hotels, we may be held liable for costs related to the injuries. Our current property and liability insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage and we may be unable to renew our insurance policies or obtain new insurance policies without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. We may not be able to develop hotel properties on a timely or cost-efficient basis, which may adversely affect our growth strategy and business. We develop almost all of our leased-and-operated hotels directly. Our involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including construction delays or cost overruns, which may result in increased project costs or forgone revenue. We may be unable to recover development costs we incur for projects that are not pursued to completion. Properties that we develop could become less attractive due to market saturation or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to recover development costs at the expected rate, or at all. In addition, we may not have available cash to complete projects that have commenced, or we may be unable to obtain financings for development of future properties on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to successfully manage our hotel development to minimize these risks, our growth strategy and business prospects may be adversely affected. Our costs and expenses may remain constant or increase even if our revenues decline. A significant portion of our operating costs, including rent, is fixed. Accordingly, a decrease in our revenues could result in a disproportionately higher decrease in our earnings because our operating costs and expenses are unlikely to decrease proportionately. For example, the period during which China’s Spring Festival holiday occurs generally accounts for a lower portion of our annual revenues than the other periods, but our expenses do not vary as significantly as changes in occupancy and revenues, since we need to continue to pay rent and salary, make regular repairs, maintenance and renovations and invest in other capital improvements throughout the year to maintain the attractiveness of our hotels. Our property development and renovation costs may increase as a result of increasing costs of materials. However, we have a limited ability to pass increased costs to customers through room rate increases. Therefore, our costs and expenses may remain constant or increase even if our revenues decline. 12 Table of Contents Our financial leverage may hamper our ability to expand and may materially affect our results of operations. We have significant borrowings. In December 2007, we issued RMB 1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of our US$ settled zero coupon convertible bonds due December 10, 2012, of which RMB 895.7 million remains outstanding. We will be required to allocate a significant portion of our cash flow to service our obligations when our convertible bonds mature. This could impair our ability to make necessary capital expenditures, develop business opportunities or make strategic acquisitions. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our bonds and make necessary capital expenditures, in which case we may seek additional financing or dispose of certain assets. We cannot assure you that any of these alternatives can be implemented on satisfactory terms, if at all, or without breach of the terms and conditions of existing or future financing arrangements. In the event that we are unable to meet our obligations when they become due or if our bondholders take legal action against us for payment, we may have to liquidate our long-term assets to repay our bondholders. We may have difficulty converting our long-term assets into current assets in such a situation and may suffer losses from the sale of our long-term assets. This would materially and adversely affect our operations and prevent us from successfully implementing our business strategy. Our lessors’ failure to comply with lease registration and other compliance requirements under PRC law may subject these lessors or us to fines or other penalties that may negatively affect our ability to operate our hotels. As an operator and manager of hotel properties, we, our franchisees and those from whom we lease properties, are subject to a number of land- and property-related legal requirements. For instance, under PRC law, all lease agreements are required to be registered with the local housing bureau. Our standard lease agreement generally requires the lessor to make such registrations. However, as of December 31, 2008, lessors of 256 out of the 326 hotels in operation that we lease and operate had not obtained registrations of their leases from the relevant authorities as required. We continue to remind these lessors to obtain registrations under our lease agreements with them. In addition, based on the specific land use right certificates and property ownership certificates currently held by some of our lessors, certain hotel properties we lease are restricted to industrial and other uses, rather than for commercial service use. The failure of our lessors to register lease agreements as required by law or to ensure that the hotel properties are operated in compliance with their designated use may subject these lessors or us to fines or other penalties which may negatively affect our ability to operate the hotels covered under those leases. We have limited insurance coverage. We carry property insurance that covers the assets that we own at our hotels, but not the buildings or any other assets owned by our lessors. Although we require our lessors to purchase customary insurance policies, we cannot guarantee that they will adhere to such requirements. As a result of damage caused by the 2008 Sichuan earthquake, seven of our hotels in Chengdu have filed insurance claims of approximately RMB 0.6 million (US$0.1 million). If we were held liable for amounts and claims exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage or outside the scope of our insurance coverage, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we do not have any business disruption insurance coverage for our operations to cover losses that may be caused by natural disasters or catastrophic events, such as epidemics or earthquakes. Any business disruption or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and diversion of our resources. If we are unable to maintain our hotels’ good condition and attractive appearance, our hotel occupancy rates may decline. In order to maintain our hotels’ good condition and attractive appearance, our hotels require ongoing renovations and other leasehold improvements, including periodic replacement of furniture, fixtures and equipment. If we and our franchisees do not make needed leasehold investments and improvements, we could lose our market share to our competitors and our hotel occupancy rates may decline. The growth of on-line and other hotel reservation intermediaries and travel consolidators may adversely affect our margins and profitability. Some of our hotel rooms are booked through travel intermediaries and consolidators to whom we pay commissions for such services. If these intermediaries and consolidators become the primary channel through which our customers make their bookings, they may be able to negotiate higher commissions, reduced room rates, or other significant concessions from us. We believe that the aim of such intermediaries and consolidators is to have consumers develop loyalties to their reservation systems rather than to our brand. The operations of these travel intermediaries and consolidators may adversely affect our ability to control the supply and price of our room inventory, which would in turn adversely affect our margins and profitability. 13 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008. See “Item 15. Control and Procedures.” Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report as of December 31, 2008. See “Item 15. Control and Procedures—Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm.” However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The new M&A rule sets forth complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or the MOC, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or SASAC, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the New M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rule sets forth complex procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOC be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. We may expand our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses or assets in China. Complying with the requirements of the New M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOC, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. We conduct substantially all of our business operations in China. As the travel industry is highly sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels, it tends to decline during general economic downturns. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. While some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. As the PRC economy is increasingly intricately linked to the global economy, it is affected in various respects by downturns and recessions of major economies around the world, such as the recent financial services and economic crises of these economies. The various economic and policy measures the PRC government enacts to forestall economic downturns or shore up the PRC economy could affect our business. 14 Table of Contents The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Future actions and policies of the PRC government could materially affect our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published court decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our income will be primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated entity to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, for most capital account items, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy caused the Renminbi to appreciate approximately 21.5% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Since reaching a high against the U.S. dollar in July 2008, however, the Renminbi has traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar, remaining within 1% of its July 2008 high but never exceeding it. As a consequence, the Renminbi has fluctuated sharply since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. For example, the Renminbi appreciated approximately 27% against the Euro between July 2008 and November 2008. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how it may change again. As we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by our operating subsidiaries in China, any significant depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs and common shares. If we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes, depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would reduce the U.S. dollar amount available to us. On the other hand, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. As of December 31, 2008, our U.S. dollar denominated financial assets consisted of a cash balance of approximately US$22.0 million. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi in either direction could have a material adverse effect on the value of our company and the value of your investment. 15 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 along with related procedural guidance in January 2007 requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equity of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” Under this public notice, PRC residents who are shareholders and/or beneficial owners of such offshore special purpose companies were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. We have requested our shareholders and/or beneficial owners who are subject to the registration requirements under the SAFE notice to register with the local SAFE branch. Failure of these shareholders and/or beneficial owners to register with the local SAFE branch as required by the SAFE notice or failure of future shareholders of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE notice may subject such shareholders and/or beneficial owners to fines and other government actions and may also limit our ability to fund our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to our company or otherwise adversely affect our business. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries entities to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company and we rely principally on dividends from our subsidiaries in China for our cash requirements, including any debt we may incur. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries in China is required to set aside a certain amount of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2008, aggregate net assets of RMB 1,956.8 million (US$286.8 million) were not distributable in the form of dividends to us due to these PRC regulations. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements we currently have in place in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. We have benefited from certain financial subsidies and preferential tax treatments in China. Reduction or elimination of these subsidies or preferential tax treatments may have an adverse effect on our income tax expense and net income. Various local tax authorities in China have provided financial subsidies in the form of certain tax refunds to us. However, these tax authorities may reduce or eliminate any or all of these financial subsidies at any time in the future. There is no assurance that we will continue to receive any financial subsidies in the form of tax refunds or otherwise as the grant of such subsidies is within the discretion of relevant local government authorities. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress, the Chinese legislature, passed the Enterprise Income Tax Law, and on December 6, 2007, the PRC State Council issued the Implementation Regulations of the Enterprise Income Tax Law, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Enterprise Income Tax Law and its Implementation Regulations, or the new EIT law, applies a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate to both foreign-invested enterprises and domestic enterprises. There is a transition period for enterprises, whether foreign-invested or domestic, which currently receive preferential tax treatments granted by relevant tax authorities. Enterprises that are subject to an enterprise income tax rate lower than 25% may continue to enjoy the lower rate and gradually transfer to the new tax rate within five years after the effective date of the new EIT law. Enterprises that are currently entitled to exemptions or reductions from the standard income tax rate for a fixed term may continue to enjoy such treatment until the fixed term expires. Preferential tax treatments will continue to be granted to industries and projects that are strongly supported and encouraged by the state, and enterprises classified as “new and high technology enterprises strongly supported by the state” are entitled to a 15% enterprise income tax rate. 16 Table of Contents Some of our subsidiaries are subject to lower enterprise income tax rates or tax exemptions due to the preferential tax treatments granted by the local tax authorities. For example, our wholly owned subsidiary, Hemei Hotel Management Company, enjoyed an 18% enterprise income tax rate during 2008 due to its place of incorporation and operation in the Pudong New District of Shanghai. It is subject to a 20% tax rate in 2009, and its tax rate is expected to increase to 22%, 24% and then 25% in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. If such preferential tax treatments granted by local tax authorities are deemed to be in violation of national laws and regulations or are abolished or altered, our subsidiaries will be subject to the standard enterprise income tax rate, which currently is 25%. Under current PRC regulations, if it is determined that a taxpayer has underpaid tax due to prior advice from relevant tax authorities, the taxpayer may still be required to pay the full amount of unpaid tax within three years after such determination but the taxpayer will not be subject to any penalty or late payment fee. There is no assurance that our subsidiaries will continue to receive the above preferential tax treatments. We will be required to pay more taxes if they fail to become or continue to be eligible to receive PRC tax benefits, which may have a material adverse effect on our result of operations. The PRC tax treatment of our holding company structure under the new EIT law is subject to uncertainties, and if such uncertainties are resolved unfavorably to us, we may incur higher taxes than we anticipate, and our net income and ability to pay dividends could be hampered. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, which indirectly holds, through Home Inns Hong Kong, our subsidiaries in the PRC. We conduct substantially all of our business operations in China. The EIT Law and its implementation rules provide that China-sourced income of foreign enterprises, such as dividends paid by a PRC subsidiary to its non-PRC resident overseas parent, will normally be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of 10%, unless there are applicable treaties that reduce such rate. Under a special arrangement between China and Hong Kong, such dividend withholding tax rate is reduced to 5% if a Hong Kong resident enterprise owns over 25% of the PRC enterprise distributing the dividends. As Home Inns Hong Kong is a Hong Kong company and owns over 25% of our foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, any dividends that our FIEs pay Home Inns Hong Kong will be subject to a withholding tax at the rate of 5%, provided that Home Inns Hong Kong and we are not considered to be PRC tax resident enterprises. Under the EIT Law, enterprises established under the laws of jurisdictions outside China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China may be considered to be PRC tax resident enterprises for tax purposes. A substantial majority of the members of our management team as well as the management team of Home Inns Hong Kong are located in China. If we or Home Inns Hong Kong is considered as a PRC tax resident enterprise under the above definition, then our global income will be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25%, excluding dividends received directly from another PRC tax resident. Currently no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification is available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each company. If such uncertainties are resolved unfavorably to us, we may incur higher taxes than we anticipate, and our net income and our ability to pay dividends could be hampered. Our foreign ADS holders may be subject to PRC withholding tax on the dividends payable by us and upon gains realized on their sales of our ADSs if we are classified as a PRC “resident enterprise.” The new EIT law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their global income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. Moreover, under the new EIT law, foreign ADS holders may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains realized on their sales or other dispositions of our ADSs or ordinary shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc. is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, it remains unclear whether the gains our foreign ADS holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax will reduce the returns on your investment in our ADSs. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • revisions to our projected financial or operational performance by ourselves or by securities research analysts; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • conditions in the travel and lodging industries; • changes in the performance or market valuations of other lodging companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, expansions or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies; • potential litigation or administrative investigations; and • general economic or political conditions in China and elsewhere. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flow from operations and the proceeds from our initial public offering in October 2006, from our second public offering in May 2007, from our sale of convertible bonds in December 2007, and from undrawn bank credit facilities available to us will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any re-financing needs or any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all, particularly in light of the current global economic crisis. Substantial future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. In particular, certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register the sale of a certain number of our shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. 18 Table of Contents Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our officers, directors and principal shareholders. Our current directors and officers beneficially own a total of 10,828,284 of our ordinary shares. In addition, BTG, through its affiliate Poly Victory, currently owns 13,805,809 of our ordinary shares and has the right to appoint, and has appointed, two directors of our company. Furthermore, Ctrip.com International, Ltd., or Ctrip, reported that it and its subsidiary had acquired ADSs on the open market representing 6,187,720 of our ordinary shares; two of Ctrip’s co-founders and directors are also our co-founders and directors. If our officers, directors and these two principal shareholders choose to act in concert, they would beneficially own 42.6% of our ordinary shares and could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. The concentration of our share ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs or the value of our ordinary shares. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs have appointed the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and the majority of our officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries in China. Most of our officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. 19 Table of Contents Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2007 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our articles of association contain provisions limiting the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to enter into change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences for U.S. Holders. Based on the price of our ADSs and ordinary shares and the composition of our income and assets, we believe that we were not a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ending December 31, 2008. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to ambiguity in several aspects and, in addition, we must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year). Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2009 or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The value of our assets generally will be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which may fluctuate considerably. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we raise in any offering. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder held an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. Holder. For the definition of “U.S. Holder” and a more detailed discussion of United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders, see “ Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 20 Table of Contents 