Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are a high-risk startup venture. With the commercialization of our first product, we are transitioning from being a development company to an operating company. Nonetheless, most of our products are still in the development stage and we have no significant operating history. We do not currently have any material assets, other than cash, certain laboratory equipment, and certain intellectual property rights. Our business and prospects must be evaluated in light of the expenses, delays, uncertainties and complications typically encountered by businesses in our stage of development, many of which may be beyond our control. These include, but are not limited to, lack of sufficient capital, unanticipated problems, delays or expenses relating to product development, governmental approvals, and licensing and marketing activities, competition, technological changes and uncertain market acceptance. In addition, if we are unable to manage growth effectively, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We must overcome these and other business risks to be successful. Our efforts may not be successful. We may never be profitable. Therefore, investors could lose their entire investment. 16 Table of Contents Most of our planned products are in the early stage of product development. We have only had one product cleared by the FDA for market and two additional products for which we have submitted 510(k) premarket notifications to the FDA. Many of the possible products we have rights to have had only limited research in the fields of use we currently intend to commercialize. Our product candidates will require testing and regulatory clearances or approvals. Accordingly, most of the products we are developing are not yet ready for sale and may never be ready for sale. The successful development of any products is subject to the risks of failure inherent in product development. These risks include the possibilities that any or all of these proposed products or procedures are found to be ineffective or toxic, or otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances or approvals; that the proposed products or procedures are uneconomical to market or do not achieve broad market acceptance; that third parties hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing them; or third parties market a superior or equivalent product. We are unable to predict whether our research and development activities will result in any additional commercially viable products or procedures. Furthermore, due to the extended testing and regulatory review process required before marketing clearances or approvals can be obtained, the time frames for commercialization of any products or procedures are long and uncertain. Our financial condition raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $2,654,000 of cash or cash equivalents on hand. In January 2010, the Company received final proceeds totaling $785,000 from a private placement of common stock and warrants. Assuming it receives no additional funds, the Company estimates that it has sufficient funds to operate until June 2010. If we fail to obtain additional capital in the immediate future, we will have to terminate our planned business operations, in which case the investors will lose all or part of their investment. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, the Company had outstanding debt of approximately $3,542,000 related to principal and interest under its 3% Convertible Senior Secured Promissory Notes (the “Notes”). If we default on our Notes, the holders could foreclose on our property and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Continuing disruptions in the overall economy and the credit and financial markets may adversely impact our ability to raise necessary additional capital. The capital and credit markets continue to be very volatile as a result of adverse conditions that have caused the failure and near failure of a number of large financial services companies. If the capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and the availability of funds remains limited, it is possible that our ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited or nonexistent because of these or other factors, and we require additional capital in the near future in order to continue operations. We will need additional financing to meet our future capital requirements. We will require significant additional funds, either through additional equity or debt financings or collaborative agreements or from other sources to engage in research and development activities with respect to our potential product candidates and to establish the personnel necessary to successfully manage us. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements until June 2010. However, obtaining the required regulatory approvals and clearances and the planned expansion of our business will be expensive and time-consuming and we will in the future seek funds from public and private stock or debt offerings, borrowings under lines of credit or other sources. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the revenues generated by sales of our products; • the costs associated with expanding our sales and marketing efforts, including efforts to hire independent agents and sales representatives; • the expenses we incur in developing and commercializing our products, including the cost of obtaining and maintaining FDA or other regulatory clearances and approvals; and • unanticipated general and administrative expenses. 17 Table of Contents As a result of these factors, we must raise additional funds now and in the future and such funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing shareholders may experience dilution and the new equity or debt securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing shareholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, obtain the required regulatory clearances or approvals, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have a limited operating history, and, to date, we have generated insignificant revenues from our products. Further, we have incurred losses since inception. We expect to continue to incur losses through 2010. The actual extent of our future losses and the timing of profitability are highly uncertain, and we may never achieve profitable operations. The principal causes of our losses are likely to be primarily attributable to personnel costs, working capital costs, research and development costs, brand development costs and marketing and promotion costs. We may never achieve profitability. We are in a highly competitive industry and face competition from large, well-established medical device manufacturers as well as new market entrants. Competition from other medical device companies and from research and academic institutions is intense, expected to increase, subject to rapid change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, we compete with other companies in acquiring rights to products or technologies from those institutions. There can be no assurance that we can develop products that are more effective or achieve greater market acceptance than competitive products, or that our competitors will not succeed in developing or acquiring products and technologies that are more effective than those being developed by us, that would render our products and technologies less competitive or obsolete. Our competitors enjoy several competitive advantages over us, including some or all of the following: • products which have been approved by regulatory authorities for use in the United States and/or Europe and which are supported by long-term clinical data; • significantly greater name recognition; • established relations with surgeons, hospitals, other healthcare providers and third party payors; • large and established distribution networks in the United States and/or in international markets; • greater experience in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals and/or clearances from the United States Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory agencies; • more expansive portfolios of intellectual property rights; and • greater financial, managerial and other resources for products research and development, sales and marketing efforts and protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights. Our competitors’ products will compete directly with our products if and when ours can be marketed. In addition, our competitors as well as new market entrants may develop or acquire new treatments, products or procedures that will compete directly or indirectly with our products. The presence of this competition in our market may lead to pricing pressure which would make it more difficult to sell our products at a price that will make us profitable or prevent us from selling our products at all. Our failure to compete effectively would have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain and may be inadequate, which would have a material and adverse effect on us. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology, including our licensed technology. These legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. For example, our pending United States and foreign patent applications (and those we have or will have licenses to) may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us or may issue and be subsequently successfully challenged by others and invalidated. In addition, our pending patent applications include claims to material aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. Competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes that are comparable or even superior to ours. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, including entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with some of our officers, employees, consultants and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. 18 Table of Contents In the event a competitor infringes upon our licensed or pending patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights may be costly, uncertain, difficult and time consuming. Even if successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be expensive and time consuming and could divert our management’s attention. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents rights against a challenge. The failure to obtain patents and/or protect our intellectual property rights could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from developing our products, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages. Third parties could, in the future, assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to products we develop. Whether a product infringes a patent or misappropriates other intellectual property involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of others. Our potential competitors may assert that some aspect of our product infringes their patents. Because patent applications may take years to issue, there also may be applications now pending of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products infringe. There also may be existing patents or pending patent applications of which we are unaware that our products may inadvertently infringe. Any infringement or misappropriation claim could cause us to incur significant costs, place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management’s attention from our business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents in such claim were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe, we could be prohibited from selling any product that is found to infringe unless we could obtain licenses to use the technology covered by the patent or are able to design around the patent. We may be unable to obtain such a license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. A court could also order us to pay compensatory damages for such infringement, plus prejudgment interest and could, in addition, treble the compensatory damages and award attorney fees. These damages could be substantial and could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. A court also could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us and our customers from making, using, or selling products, and could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Depending on the nature of the relief ordered by the court, we could become liable for additional damages to third parties. Our patents and licenses may be subject to challenge on validity grounds, and our patent applications may be rejected. We rely on our patents, patent applications, licenses and other intellectual property rights to give us a competitive advantage. Whether a patent is valid, or whether a patent application should be granted, is a complex matter of science and law, and therefore we cannot be certain that, if challenged, our patents, patent applications and/or other intellectual property rights would be upheld. If one or more of those patents, patent applications, licenses and other intellectual property rights are invalidated, rejected or found unenforceable, that could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we might otherwise have had. The prosecution and enforcement of patents licensed to us by third parties are not within our control, and without these technologies, our product may not be successful and our business would be harmed if the patents were infringed or misappropriated without action by such third parties. We have obtained licenses from third parties for patents and patent application rights related to the products we are developing, allowing us to use intellectual property rights owned by or licensed to these third parties. We do not control the maintenance, prosecution, enforcement or strategy for many of these patents or patent application rights and as such are dependent in part on the owners of the intellectual property rights to maintain their viability. Without access to these technologies or suitable design-around or alternative technology options, our ability to conduct our business could be impaired significantly. 19 Table of Contents Our NDGA License Agreement could be terminated. Under our license agreement with Shriners Hospitals for Children and University of South Florida Research Foundation dated January 29, 2007, it is possible for the licensor to terminate the agreement if we breach the license agreement and all of our cure rights are exhausted. If our license agreement were to be terminated, it would have a negative impact on our business. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees, or our independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of others. Some of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies. We may also hire additional employees who are currently employed at other medical device companies, including our competitors. Additionally, consultants or other independent agents with which we may contract may be or have been in a contractual arrangement with one or more of our competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or independent contractors have used or disclosed any party’s trade secrets or other proprietary information. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail to defend such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to market existing or new products, which could severely harm our business. SaluMedica, LLC may license the PVA-based hydrogel, the material used to make SpineMedica’s products and other products we are developing, and its trademark to third parties for use in applications unrelated to the spine, rotator cuff, or surgical sheet applications. This may expose us to adverse publicity if these uses are not proven safe and effective. Our licenses with SaluMedica, LLC allows us to use technology and/or know-how related to the material used to manufacture applications related to the spine, rotator cuff and surgical sheet, and allows us to use the Salubria® biomaterial trademark. SaluMedica, LLC may license the PVA-based hydrogel and rights related to the Salubria® biomaterial trademark to third parties for applications not related to the spine, rotator cuff, or surgical sheet. If the use of Salubria® biomaterial or the PVA-based hydrogel by these third parties results in product liability claims or has other adverse effects in patients, surgeons and patients may associate these claims and effects with our products, even if our products are nevertheless proven safe and effective. If Salubria® biomaterial experiences adverse publicity or is not proven safe and effective in other applications, sales of our products could be adversely affected. We depend on key personnel. We currently have 37 full-time and 3 part-time employees. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain additional skilled personnel, which will require substantial additional funds. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find and attract additional qualified employees or retain any such personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel, the loss of services of our key personnel, or the loss of services of executive officers or key employees that that may be hired in the future may have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. We are subject to the following factors, among others, that may negatively affect our operating results: • the announcement or introduction of new products by our competitors; • our ability to upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure to accommodate growth; • our ability to attract and retain key personnel in a timely and cost effective manner; • technical difficulties; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • regulation by federal, state or local governments; and • general economic conditions as well as economic conditions specific to the healthcare industry. 20 Table of Contents As a result of our limited operating history, limited resources, and the nature of the markets in which we compete, it is extremely difficult for us to forecast accurately. We have based our current and future expense levels largely on our investment plans and estimates of future events although certain of our expense levels are, to a large extent, fixed. Assuming our products reach the market, we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenues relative to our planned expenditures would have an immediate adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, the Company may from time to time make certain pricing, service or marketing decisions that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to the foregoing factors, our revenues and operating results are and will remain difficult to forecast. The failure of government health administrators and private health insurers to reimburse patients for costs of services incorporating our potential products would materially and adversely affect our business. Our success depends, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of products to users will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Significant uncertainty usually exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Adequate third party insurance coverage may be unavailable for us, our sublicensees or partners to establish and maintain price levels sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on investment. Government and other third-party payers attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new products. Therefore, we cannot be certain that our products or the procedures performed with them will be covered or adequately reimbursed and thus we may be unable to sell our products profitably if third-party payors deny coverage or reduce their levels of payment below that which we project, or if our production costs increase at a greater rate than payment levels. If government and other third party payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for uses of the products incorporating our technology, the market’s acceptance of our products could be adversely affected. Disruption of our manufacturing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations are dependent upon the continued operation of our manufacturing facilities. The operation of biomedical manufacturing plants involves many risks. Such risks include the risks of breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment, the occurrence of natural and other disasters, and the need to comply with the requirements of directives from government agencies, including the FDA. The occurrence of material operational problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations during the period of such operational difficulties. We currently have only one product cleared by the FDA for marketing, and may never develop or launch, any commercialized products. We currently have only one commercialized product in the United States and, to date, have had only limited sales. We have invested substantial time and resources in developing various additional products. Commercialization of these products, including NDGA and PVA-based hydrogel products, will require additional development, clinical evaluation, regulatory clearance or approval, significant marketing efforts and substantial additional investment before they can provide us with any revenue. Despite our efforts, our products may not become commercially successful products for a number of reasons, including: • we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approvals for our products, or the approved indication may be narrower than we seek; • our products may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials; • physicians may not receive any reimbursement from third party payors, or the level of reimbursement may be insufficient to support widespread adoption of our products; • we may experience delays in our development program; • any products that are approved may not be accepted in the marketplace by physicians or patients; • we may not be able to manufacture any of our products in commercial quantities or at an acceptable cost; and • rapid technological change may make our products obsolete. 21 Table of Contents We face the risk of product liability claims or recalls and may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices, including those that may arise from the misuse or malfunction of, or design flaws in, our products. We may be subject to such claims if our products cause, or appear to have caused, an injury. Claims may be made by patients, healthcare providers or others selling our products. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of merit, could be costly, divert management attention and result in adverse publicity, which could result in the withdrawal of, or reduced acceptance of, our products in the market. Although we have product liability insurance that we believe is adequate, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations and we may not be able to maintain this insurance. If we are unable to maintain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims, we could be exposed to significant liabilities, which may harm our business. A product liability claim or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could result in significant costs and significant harm to our business. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into and maintain arrangements with third parties to sell, market and distribute our products, our business may be harmed. To achieve commercial success for our products, we must develop a sales and marketing force, or enter into arrangements with others to market and sell our products. In addition to being expensive, developing such a sales force is time consuming, and could delay or limit the success of any product launch. We may not be able to develop this capacity on a timely basis or at all. Qualified direct sales personnel with experience in the medical device market are in high demand, and there is no assurance that we will be able to hire or retain an effective direct sales team. Similarly, qualified independent medical device representatives both within and outside the United States are in high demand, and we may not be able to build an effective network for the distribution of our product through such representatives. We have no assurance that we will be able to enter into contracts with representatives on terms acceptable to us, or if we do, we may be subject to a number of risks, including: • We may be required to relinquish important rights to our products; • We may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our distributors may devote to the commercialization of our products; • Our distributors may experience financial difficulties; and • Business combinations or significant changes in a distributor’s business strategy may also adversely affect a distributor’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement. Failure to market and distribute products to our customers in a timely and cost effective manner would cause our potential future sales to decrease and our margins to fall. Off-label promotion of our products could result in substantial penalties. We are only permitted to promote our products for the uses indicated on the respective label as cleared by the FDA. The U.S. Attorneys’ offices and other regulators, in addition to the FDA, have recently focused substantial attention on off-label promotional activities and have initiated civil and criminal investigations related to such practices. If it is determined by these or other regulators that we have promoted our products for off-label use, we could be subject to fines, legal proceedings, injunctions or other penalties. To be commercially successful, we must convince surgeons that our products are safe and effective alternatives to existing surgical treatments and that our products should be used in their procedures. We believe surgeons may not widely adopt our products unless they determine, based on experience, clinical data and published peer reviewed journal articles, that the use of our products in a particular procedure is a favorable alternative to conventional methods. Surgeons may be slow to change their medical treatment practices for the following reasons, among others: • their lack of experience with prior procedures in the field using our products; • lack of evidence supporting additional patient benefits and our products over conventional methods; • perceived liability risks generally associated with the use of new products and procedures; • limited availability of reimbursement from third party payors; and • the time that must be dedicated to training. 22 Table of Contents In addition, we believe recommendations for and support of our products by influential surgeons are essential for market acceptance and adoption. If we do not receive this support or if we are unable to demonstrate favorable long-term clinical data, surgeons and hospitals may not use our products which would significantly reduce our ability to achieve expected revenues and would prevent us from becoming profitable. Any failure in our efforts to train surgeons could significantly reduce the market acceptance of our products. There will be a learning process involved for surgeons to become proficient in the use of our products. It will be critical to the success of our commercialization efforts to train a sufficient number of surgeons and to provide them with adequate instruction in the use of our products. This training process may take longer than expected and may therefore affect our ability to generate sales. Convincing surgeons to dedicate the time and energy necessary for adequate training is challenging and we may not be successful in these efforts. If surgeons are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. This may result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity, or lawsuits against us, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. We depend on a single or a limited number of third-party suppliers, and the loss of these third-party suppliers or their inability to supply us with adequate raw materials could adversely affect our business. We rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the raw materials required for the production of our implant products. Furthermore, in some cases we rely on a single supplier. Our dependence on a limited number of third-party suppliers or on a single supplier, and the challenges we may face in obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials, involve several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality, and delivery schedules. We cannot be certain that our current suppliers will continue to provide us with the quantities of these raw materials that we require or satisfy our anticipated specifications and quality requirements. Any supply interruption in limited or sole sourced raw materials could materially harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply, if any, could be identified and qualified. Although we believe there are other suppliers of these raw materials, we may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time or on commercially reasonable terms. Any performance failure on the part of our suppliers could delay the development and commercialization of our products, including limiting supplies necessary for clinical trials and regulatory approvals, or interrupt production of the existing products that are already marketed, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We also use collagen, a protein obtained from animal source tissue, as another significant material required to produce our products. We may not be able to obtain adequate supplies of animal source tissue, or to obtain this tissue from animal herds that we believe do not involve pathogen contamination risks, to meet our future needs or on a cost-effective basis. Any significant supply interruption could adversely affect the production of our products and delay our product development or clinical trial programs. These delays would have an adverse effect on our business. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may be unable to manage rapid growth effectively. Our failure to manage growth effectively could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that a period of significant expansion will be required to address possible other acquisitions of business, products, or rights, and potential internal growth to handle licensing and research activities. This expansion will place a significant strain on management, operational and financial resources. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we must both modify our existing operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and implement new systems, procedures and controls. We must also expand our finance, administrative, and operations staff. Our current personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not adequately support our future operations. Management may be unable to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage necessary personnel or to identify, manage and exploit existing and potential strategic relationships and market opportunities. 23 Table of Contents Our business could be materially and adversely impacted by risks inherent in international markets. We expect a significant percentage of our revenues to be from sales to customers outside the U.S. International sales subject us to inherent risks related to changes in the economic, political, legal and business environments in the foreign countries in which we do business, including the following: • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • Regulatory, product approval and reimbursement requirements; • Tariffs and other trade barriers; • Greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • Difficulties and costs of managing foreign distributors; • Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • Burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; • The impact of recessions in economics outside the U.S.; and • Political and economic instability • U.S. Export regulatory restrictions If we fail to successfully market and sell our products in international markets, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Products and Other Government Regulations Government regulation of our business is extensive and obtaining and maintaining the necessary regulatory approvals is uncertain, expensive and time-consuming. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device from the FDA, or similar regulatory authorities outside of the United States is costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process generally takes 30 days to 6 months from submission, depending on whether a Special or traditional 510(k) premarket notification has been submitted, but can take significantly longer. An application for premarket approval, or PMA, must be submitted to the FDA if the device cannot be cleared through the 510(k) clearance process and is not exempt from premarket review by the FDA. The PMA process almost always requires one or more clinical trials and can take one to three years from the date of filing, or longer. In some cases, the FDA has indicated that it will require clinical data as part of the 510(k) process. There is no certainty that any of our products will be cleared by the FDA by means of either a 510(k) notice or a PMA application. Even if the FDA permits us to use the 510(k) clearance process, we cannot assure you that the FDA will not require either supporting data from laboratory tests or studies that we have not conducted, or substantial supporting clinical data. If we are unable to use the 510(k) clearance process for any of our products, are required to provide clinical data or laboratory data that we do not possess to support our 510(k) premarket notifications for any of these products, or otherwise experience delays in obtaining or fail to obtain regulatory clearances, the commercialization of such product will be delayed or prevented, which will adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. It also may result in the loss of potential competitive advantages that we might otherwise attain by bringing our products to market earlier than our competitors. Any of these contingencies could adversely affect our business. Even if regulatory clearance is obtained, a marketed product is subject to continual review, and later discovery of previously unidentified problems or failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on a product’s marketing, recalls, or withdrawal of the product from the market as well as possible civil or criminal sanctions. We expect to be required to conduct clinical trials for some of our products. We have no experience conducting clinical trials, they may proceed more slowly than anticipated, and we cannot be certain that our products will be shown to be safe and effective for human use. In order to commercialize some of our products, we may be required to submit a PMA, which will require us to conduct clinical trials. Even if we seek FDA clearance of one our products through the 510(k) process, the FDA may require us to conduct a clinical trial in support of our 510(k). We will receive approval from the FDA to commercialize products requiring a clinical trial only if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA, in well-designed and properly conducted clinical trials, that our product candidates are safe and effective and otherwise meet the appropriate standards required for approval for specified indications. Clinical trials are complex, expensive, time consuming, uncertain and subject to substantial and unanticipated delays. Before we may begin clinical trials that present a significant risk to subjects, we must submit and obtain FDA approval of an investigational device exemption, or IDE, that describes, among other things, the manufacture of, and controls for, the device and a complete investigational plan. Clinical trials may involve a substantial number of patients in a multi-year study. We may encounter problems with our clinical trials and any of those problems could cause us or the FDA to suspend those trials, or delay the analysis of the data derived from them. 24 Table of Contents A number of events or factors, including any of the following, could delay or prevent the completion of our clinical trials in the future and negatively impact or even foreclose our ability to obtain FDA approval for, and to introduce a particular product: • failure to obtain approval from the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority to commence an investigational study; • conditions imposed on us by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delays in obtaining or in our maintaining required approvals from institutional review boards or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • insufficient supply of our products or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • difficulties in enrolling patients in our clinical trials; • negative or inconclusive results from clinical trials, or results that are inconsistent with earlier results, that necessitate additional clinical studies; • serious or unexpected side effects experienced by patients in whom our products are implanted; or • failure by any of our third-party contractors or investigators to comply with regulatory requirements or meet other contractual obligations in a timely manner. Our clinical trials may not begin as planned, may need to be redesigned, and may not be completed on schedule, if at all. Delays in our clinical trials may result in increased development costs for our product candidates, which could cause our stock price to decline and limit our ability to obtain additional financing. In addition, if one or more of our clinical trials are delayed, competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do, and the commercial viability of our product candidates could be significantly reduced. There may be unexpected findings, particularly those that may only become evident from larger scale clinical trials, as compared with the smaller scale tests we intend to do initially. The occurrence of unexpected findings in connection with our clinical trials or any subsequent clinical trial required by our regulators may prevent or delay obtaining regulatory approval, and may adversely affect coverage or reimbursement determinations. Our regulators may also determine that additional clinical trials are necessary, in which case approval may be delayed for several months or even years while these trials are conducted. The clinical trials may not show that our products based on NDGA, PVA-based hydrogel, or any other products we develop are safe and effective. If we are unable to complete the clinical trials necessary to successfully support our regulatory applications, our ability to commercialize our products, business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our products contain biologic materials, and so may face additional obstacles to FDA clearance or approval. To complete successful clinical trials, a product must meet the criteria for clinical approval, or endpoints, established in the clinical study. These endpoints are established in consultation with the FDA, following any applicable clinical trial design guidelines, to establish the safety and effectiveness for approval of devices subject to PMA approval, or to demonstrate the substantial equivalence of devices subject to 510(k) clearance. However, in the case of products which are novel or which target parts of the human body for which there are no FDA approved products, the scientific literature may not be as complete and there may not be established guidelines for the design of studies to demonstrate the effectiveness of such products. As a result, clinical trials considering such products may take longer than average and obtaining approval may be more difficult. Additionally, the endpoints established for such a clinical trial might be inadequate to demonstrate the safety and efficacy or substantial equivalence required for regulatory clearance because they do not adequately measure the clinical benefit of the product being tested. In certain cases additional data collected in the clinical trial or further clinical trials may be required by the FDA. Any delays in regulatory approval will delay commercialization of our products, which may have an adverse effect on our business. The FDA regulates human therapeutic products in one of three broad categories: drugs, biologics or medical devices. The FDA’s scrutiny of products containing biologic materials may be heightened. Although we anticipate that our products will be regulated in the U.S. as medical devices, we will use biological materials in the production of several devices. FDA may conclude that some of our products are combinations of devices and biologicals, or may conclude that some of our products are biologics rather than devices, potentially requiring a different and more time consuming premarket clearance mechanism. Use of this biological material in our products may result in heightened scrutiny of such product which may result in further delays in, or obstacles to, obtaining FDA clearance or approval. 25 Table of Contents Subsequent modifications to our products may require new regulatory approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until approvals are obtained. Once our products receive FDA approval or clearance, subsequent modification to our products may require new regulatory approvals or clearances, including 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals, or require us to recall or cease marketing the modified devices until these clearances or approvals are obtained. The FDA requires device manufacturers to initially make and document a determination of whether or not a modification requires a new approval, supplement or clearance. A manufacturer may determine that a modification does not require a new clearance or approval. However, the FDA can review a manufacturer’s decision and may disagree. The FDA may also on its own initiative determine that a new clearance or approval is required. We may make modifications that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing our products as modified, which could require us to redesign our products and harm our operating results. In these circumstances, we may be subject to significant enforcement actions. If a manufacturer determines that a modification to a FDA-cleared device requires premarket clearance, then the manufacturer must file for a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a premarket approval application supplement. Where we determine that modifications to our products require a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval application, we may not be able to obtain those additional clearances or approvals for the modifications or additional indications in a timely manner, or at all. Obtaining clearances and approvals can be a time consuming process, and delays in obtaining required future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our future growth. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulations, the manufacture of our products could be delayed. We and our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulations, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the quality system regulation through inspections. If we or our supplier fail a quality system regulations inspection or if any corrective action plan is not sufficient, FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions and the manufacture of our products could be delayed or terminated: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • customer notifications for repair, replacement, refunds; • recall, detention or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products or modified products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearances on PMA approvals that have already been granted; • refusal to grant export approval for our products; or • criminal prosecution. We and our sales personnel, whether employed by us or by others, must comply with various federal and state anti-kickback, self referral, false claims and similar laws, any breach of which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our relationships with surgeons, hospitals and the marketers of our products are subject to scrutiny under various federal anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws are complex, and even minor, inadvertent violations can give rise to claims that the relevant law has been violated. Possible sanctions for violation of these fraud and abuse laws include monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs, workers’ compensation programs and TRICARE (the healthcare system administered by or on behalf of the U.S. Department of Defense for uniformed services beneficiaries, including active duty and their dependents, retirees and their dependents), and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such prohibitions. Certain states in which we intend to market our products have similar fraud and abuse laws, imposing substantial penalties for violations. Any government investigation or a finding of a violation of these laws would likely result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit any knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of an individual or the ordering or recommending of the use of a product or service for which payment may be made by Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs. We have formed Physician Advisory Boards consisting of an aggregate of over 25 physicians to assist us with scientific research and development and to help us evaluate technologies. We have also entered into consulting agreements and product development agreements with surgeons, including some who may make referrals to us or order our products after our products are introduced to market. In addition, some of these physicians own our stock, which they purchased in arms’ length transactions on terms identical to those offered to non-surgeons, or received stock options from us as consideration for consulting services performed by them. We also may engage additional physicians on a consulting basis. While these transactions were structured with the intention of complying with all applicable laws, including the federal ban on physician self referrals, commonly known as the “Stark Law,” state anti-referral laws and other applicable anti-kickback laws, it is possible that regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts may in the future view these transactions as prohibited arrangements that must be restructured or for which we would be subject to other significant civil or criminal penalties, or prohibit us from accepting referrals from these surgeons. Because our strategy relies on the involvement of physicians who consult with us on the design of our product candidates, we could be materially impacted if regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts interpret our financial relationships with our physician advisors who refer or order our products to be in violation of applicable laws and determine that we would be unable to achieve compliance with such applicable laws. This could harm our reputation and the reputations of our physician advisors. In addition, the cost of noncompliance with these laws could be substantial since we could be subject to monetary fines and civil or criminal penalties, and we could also be excluded from federally funded healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, for non-compliance. The scope and enforcement of all of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. There can be no assurance that federal or state regulatory or enforcement authorities will not investigate or challenge our current or future activities under these laws. Any investigation or challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any state or federal regulatory or enforcement review of us, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time consuming. Additionally, we cannot predict the impact of any changes in these laws, whether these changes are retroactive or will have effect on a going-forward basis only. We face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. Reforms under consideration in the United States include mandated basic healthcare benefits, controls on healthcare spending, increases in insurance premiums and increased out-of-pocket requirements for patients, the creation of large group purchasing organizations that aim to reduce the costs of products that their member hospitals consume, and significant modifications to the healthcare delivery system. We anticipate that the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods. Due to uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of reform initiatives and the timing of their enactment and implementation, we cannot predict which, if any, of such reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact reform initiatives may have on us. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our Common Stock has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. The market price of our Common Stock, like that of the securities of many other companies that are in, or are just emerging from, the development stage, has fluctuated over a wide range and it is likely that the price of our Common Stock will fluctuate in the future. Over the past two fiscal years, the closing price of our Common Stock, as reported by the OTC Bulletin Board, has fluctuated from a low of $.40 to a high of $6.35. The market price of our Common Stock could be impacted by a variety of factors, including: • Fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies or of the markets generally; • Our ability to successfully launch, market and earn significant revenue from our products; • Our ability to obtain additional financing to support our continuing operations; • Disclosure of the details and results of regulatory applications and proceedings; • Changes in government regulation; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • Our investments in research and development or other corporate resources; 27 Table of Contents • Announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products or services by us or our competitors; • Developments in the patents or other proprietary rights owned or licensed by us or our competitors; • The timing of new product introductions; • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including any restatements of previously reported results; • Our ability to effectively and consistently manufacture our products and avoid costs associated with the recall of defective or potentially defective products; • Our ability and the ability of our distribution partners to market and sell our products; • Changes in distribution channels; and • The ability of our vendors to effectively and timely deliver necessary materials and product components. Further, due to the relatively fixed nature of most of our costs, which primarily include personnel costs as well as facilities costs, any unanticipated shortfall in revenue in any fiscal quarter would have an adverse effect on our results of operations in that quarter. Accordingly, our operating results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of results for future periods and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. These fluctuations could cause the trading price of our stock to be negatively affected. Our quarterly operating results have varied substantially in the past and may vary substantially in the future. In addition, the stock market has been very volatile, particularly on the OTC Bulletin Board where our stock is quoted. This volatility is often not related to the operating performance of companies listed thereon and will probably continue in the foreseeable future. The concentrated Common Stock ownership by certain of our executive officers and directors will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2009, our directors and executive officers together beneficially owned approximately 30% of our outstanding Common Stock. This group has significant influence over our management and affairs and overall matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. This concentrated control will limit the ability of other shareholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that some of its shareholders do not view as beneficial. In addition, such concentrated control could discourage others from initiating changes of control. As a result, the market price of our shares could be adversely affected. The exercise of warrants or options or conversion of notes may depress our stock price and may result in dilution to our common stockholders. There are a significant number of outstanding warrants and options to purchase our stock and there are a certain number of outstanding notes that are convertible into our Common Stock. If the market price of our Common Stock rises above the exercise price of outstanding warrants and options or the conversion price of the outstanding notes, holders of those securities may be likely to exercise their warrants and options or convert their notes and sell the Common Stock acquired upon exercise or conversion of such securities, as applicable, in the open market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock in the public market by holders of warrants, options, or notes may depress the prevailing market price for our Common Stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if the holders of outstanding options, warrants, or notes exercise those options or warrants or convert those notes, as applicable, our common stockholders will incur dilution in their relative percentage ownership. As of December 31, 2009, warrants to purchase 6,991,371 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $1.17 per share were outstanding and exercisable; options to purchase 6,182,500 shares of common stock were outstanding, of which 3,662,082 were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of $1.35 per share; and notes convertible into 6,944,000 shares of common stock at a conversion price of $.50 per share were outstanding. 28 Table of Contents Our Common Stock is and likely will remain subject to the SEC’s “Penny Stock” rules, which may make its shares more difficult to sell. Because the price of our Common Stock is currently and may remain less than $5.00 per share, it is expected to be classified as a “penny stock.” The SEC rules regarding penny stocks may have the effect of reducing trading activity in our shares, making it more difficult for investors to sell. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed; and • give bid and offer quotations and broker and salesperson compensation information to the customer orally or in writing before or with the confirmation. These rules make it more difficult for broker-dealers to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities and may result in a lower trading volume of our common stock and lower trading prices. Our Common Stock may be thinly traded. There is a minimal public market for our Common Stock. We cannot be certain more of a public market for our Common Stock will develop, or if developed, that it will be sustained. Our Common Stock will likely be thinly traded compared to larger more widely known companies. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our Common Stock will develop or be sustained at any time in the future. If we are unable to develop or sustain a market for our Common Stock, investors may be unable to sell the Common Stock they own, and may lose the entire value of their investment. Securities analysts may elect not to report on our Common Stock or may issue negative reports that adversely affect the stock price. At this time, no securities analysts provide research coverage of our Common Stock, and securities analysts may elect not to provide such coverage in the future. Rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and a global settlement reached in 2003 among the SEC, other regulatory agencies, and a number of investment banks led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, many investment banking firms are required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. It may remain difficult for a company such as ours, with a smaller market capitalization, to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our Common Stock. If securities analysts do not cover our Common Stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect its actual and potential market price. The trading market for our Common Stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about its business. If one or more analysts elect to cover us and then downgrade the stock, the stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause its stock price to decline. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our shares. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently expect to use available funds and any future earnings in the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility we may obtain may preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our Common Stock will be an investor’s only source of potential gain from our Common Stock for the foreseeable future. Shareholders may experience significant dilution if future equity offerings are used to fund operations or acquire complementary businesses. If future operations or acquisitions are financed through the issuance of equity securities, shareholders could experience significant dilution. In addition, securities issued in connection with future financing activities or potential acquisitions may have rights and preferences senior to the rights and preferences of our Common Stock. The issuance of shares of our Common Stock upon the exercise of options may result in dilution to our shareholders. 29 Table of Contents We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm its business. The stock market in general and the stocks of medical device companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies involved. If these fluctuations occur in the future, the market price of our shares could fall regardless of its operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has been brought against that company. If the market price or volume of our shares suffers extreme fluctuations, then we may become involved in this type of litigation which would be expensive and divert management’s attention and resources from managing the business. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to shareholders, which could affect our share price adversely and prevent attempts by shareholders to replace or remove current management Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or its Board of Directors that shareholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior common stock shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock; • restricting persons who may call shareholder meetings; and • allowing the Board to fill vacancies and to fix the number of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 