Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our common stock. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial results, financial condition and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Risk Factors Relating to the Spin-Off Our historical and pro forma financial information may not be indicative of our future results as an independent company. The historical and pro forma financial information we have included in this report may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been an independent company during the periods presented or be indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be in the future. We have made adjustments based upon available information and assumptions that we believe are reasonable to reflect these factors, among others, in our pro forma financial information included in this report. Our 18 Table of Contents assumptions may not prove to be accurate and, accordingly, our pro forma information may not be indicative of what our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition actually would have been as a stand-alone public company nor be a reliable indicator of what our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition actually may be in the future. For additional information about the past financial performance of our business and the basis of the presentation of the historical consolidated financial statements, see Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the historical financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this report. Peabody shareholders who received Patriot shares at the time of the spin-off and Peabody could be subject to material amounts of taxes if the spin-off is determined to be a taxable transaction. On September 26, 2007, Peabody received a ruling from the IRS to the effect that the spin-off will qualify as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Code. The IRS did not rule on whether the spin-off satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code. Therefore, in addition to obtaining the ruling from the IRS, Peabody received a favorable opinion from Ernst & Young LLP as to the satisfaction of these required qualifying conditions for the application of Section 355 to the spin-off. Ernst & Young LLP’s tax opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts. The letter ruling and the Ernst & Young LLP opinion relied on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the letter ruling nor the Ernst & Young LLP opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. Moreover, the letter ruling does not address all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution will qualify for tax-free treatment. Notwithstanding the letter ruling and the Ernst & Young LLP opinion, the IRS could determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the Ernst & Young LLP opinion that are not covered by the letter ruling. If, notwithstanding the letter ruling and opinion, the spin-off is determined to be a taxable transaction, Peabody shareholders who received Patriot shares at the time of the spin-off and Peabody could be subject to material amounts of taxes. Patriot could be liable to Peabody for adverse tax consequences resulting from certain change in control transactions and therefore could be prevented from engaging in strategic or capital raising transactions. Peabody could recognize taxable gain if the spin-off is determined to be part of a plan or series of related transactions pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, stock representing a 50% or greater interest in either Peabody or Patriot. Under the Code, any acquisitions of Peabody or Patriot within the four-year period beginning two years before the date of the spin-off are presumed to be part of such a plan unless they are covered by at least one of several mitigating rules established by IRS regulations. Nonetheless, a merger, recapitalization or acquisition, or issuance or redemption of Patriot common stock after the spin-off could, in some circumstances, be counted toward the 50% change of ownership threshold. The tax separation agreement precludes Patriot from engaging in some of these transactions unless Patriot first obtains a tax opinion acceptable to Peabody or an IRS ruling to the effect that such transactions will not result in additional taxes. The tax separation agreement further requires Patriot to indemnify Peabody for any resulting taxes regardless of whether Patriot first obtains such opinion or ruling. As a result, Patriot may be unable to engage in strategic or capital raising transactions that stockholders might consider favorable, or to structure potential transactions in the manner most favorable to Patriot. The agreements that we have entered into with Peabody involve conflicts of interest. Because the spin-off involved the separation of certain of Peabody’s existing businesses into two independent companies, we entered into certain agreements with Peabody to provide a framework for our relationship with Peabody following the spin-off. The terms of the spin-off, including the financial terms of the arrangements 19 Table of Contents between Peabody and us that continue after the spin-off, were determined by persons who were at the time employees, officers or directors of Peabody or its subsidiaries and, accordingly, had a conflict of interest. We did not operate as an independent company prior to the spin-off, and we may experience increased costs which could decrease our overall profitability. Our business was operated as a part of Peabody’s eastern business segment, and Peabody performed a number of corporate functions for our operations. We have and will continue to incur capital and other costs associated with developing and implementing our own support functions in these areas. We are operating independently in most functions, however, Peabody continues to provide support to us, including services related to information technology, certain accounting services, engineering, geology, land management and environmental services. We need to replicate such services as soon as practical, but in no event later than October 31, 2008. In addition, there may be an operational impact on our business as a result of the time of our management and other employees and internal resources that will need to be dedicated to building these capabilities that otherwise would be available for other business initiatives and opportunities. Additionally, if we have not developed adequate systems and business functions of our own, or have not obtained them from other providers, we may not be able to operate our company effectively and our profitability may decline. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business A decline in coal prices could reduce our revenues and the value of our coal reserves. Our results of operations are dependent upon the prices we charge for our coal as well as our ability to maximize productivity and control costs. Declines in the prices we receive for our coal could adversely affect our operating results and our ability to generate the cash flows we require to fund our existing operations and obligations, improve our productivity and reinvest in our business. The prices we receive for coal depend upon numerous factors beyond our control, including coal and power market conditions, weather patterns affecting energy demand, competition in our industry, availability and costs of competing energy resources, worldwide economic and political conditions, economic strength and political stability in the U.S. and countries in which we serve customers, the outcome of commercial negotiations involving sales contracts or other transactions, customer performance and credit risk, availability and costs of transportation, our ability to respond to changing customer preferences and reductions of purchases by major customers and legislative and regulatory developments, including new environmental regulations affecting the use of coal, including mercury and carbon dioxide-related limitations. Any material decrease in demand would cause coal prices to decline and require us to decrease costs in order to maintain our margins. As our coal supply agreements expire, our revenues and operating profits could suffer if we are unable to renew our agreements or find alternate buyers willing to purchase our coal on comparable terms to those in our contracts. Following the spin-off, we continue to supply coal to Peabody subsidiaries on a contract basis, so they can meet their commitments under pre-existing customer agreements sourced from our operations. As these coal supply agreements continue to expire, we may compete with Peabody and other coal suppliers to obtain the business of the customers who were previously obtaining their coal from Peabody affiliates. If we cannot renew these coal supply agreements directly with customers or find alternate customers willing to purchase our coal on comparable terms to those in the expired contracts, our revenues and operating profits could suffer. In a limited number of contracts, failure of the parties to agree on price adjustments may allow either party to terminate the contract. Coal supply agreements typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or the customer during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, grindability and ash fusion temperature in the case of steam coal. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. In addition, some of these contracts 20 Table of Contents allow our customers to terminate their contracts in the event of changes in regulations affecting our industry that increase the price of coal beyond specified limits. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from Peabody subsidiaries, and any material failure by these subsidiaries to make payments for coal sales or receive payments from their ultimate customers for coal supplied by us would adversely affect our revenues. Currently, we derive most of our revenues from the sale of coal to certain Peabody subsidiaries, who then sell the coal to the ultimate customers. Furthermore, sales to Peabody are expected to constitute the majority of our revenues through 2008, before a majority of our current coal supply agreements expire. Any material failure or significant delay by Peabody subsidiaries to make payments for coal sales, or certain material defaults under the respective coal supply agreements such ultimate customers have with Peabody’s subsidiaries, or certain repudiations or terminations thereof in a material respect, would adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Credit Risk. The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by parties to existing coal supply agreements sourced from our operations could adversely affect our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we derived 46% of our total coal revenues from sales through Peabody to our five largest ultimate customers pursuant to coal supply agreements expiring at various times through 2012. Although these customers currently have contracts with Peabody to purchase coal sourced from our operations, we will attempt to renew these agreements directly with the end customers when they expire. Our negotiations may not be successful and those customers may not continue to purchase coal from us. If a number of these customers significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, or if we are unable to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could suffer materially. Any change in coal consumption patterns by steel producers or North American electric power generators resulting in a decrease in the use of coal by those consumers could result in lower prices for our coal, which would reduce our revenues and adversely impact our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. Steam coal accounted for approximately 77%, 77% and 78% of our coal sales volume during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Substantially all of our sales of steam coal were to U.S. electric power generators. The amount of coal consumed for U.S. electric power generation is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity; the location, availability, quality and price of competing fuels for power such as natural gas, nuclear, fuel oil and alternative energy sources such as wind and hydroelectric power; technological developments; and environmental and other governmental regulations. In addition, the increasingly stringent requirements of the Clean Air Act may result in more electric power generators shifting from coal-fueled generation, and building more non-coal power electrical generating sources in the future. Weather patterns can greatly affect electricity generation. Overall economic activity and the associated demands for power by industrial users also can have significant effects on overall electricity demand. In the past, economic slowdowns have significantly reduced the growth of electrical demand and, in some locations, resulted in contraction of demand. Any downward pressure on coal prices, whether due to increased use of alternative energy sources, changes in weather patterns, decreases in overall demand or otherwise, would likely cause our profitability to decline. Metallurgical coal accounted for approximately 23%, 23% and 22% of our coal sales volume during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Any deterioration in global steel demand or in the steel industry would reduce the demand for our metallurgical coal and could impact the collectability of our accounts receivable from steel industry customers. In addition, the steel industry increasingly relies on electric arc furnaces or pulverized coal processes to make steel. These processes do not use furnace coke, an intermediate product produced from metallurgical coal. Therefore, all growth in future steel production may not represent increased demand for metallurgical coal. If the demand or pricing for metallurgical coal decreases in the future, the amount of metallurgical coal we sell and prices that we receive for it could decrease, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. 21 Table of Contents A decrease in the price of metallurgical coal or our production of metallurgical coal could decrease our anticipated profitability. We have annual capacity to produce approximately six to eight million tons of metallurgical coal. Our margins from these sales have increased significantly since 2004 and represent a large percentage of our overall revenues and profits. To the extent we experience either production or transportation difficulties that impair our ability to ship metallurgical coal at anticipated levels, our profitability will be reduced. The majority of our metallurgical coal production is priced annually. As a result, a decrease in near term metallurgical coal prices could decrease our profitability. Failures of contractor-operated sources to fulfill the delivery terms of their contracts with us could reduce our profitability. Within our normal mining operations, we utilize third party sources for some coal production, including contract miners, to fulfill deliveries under our coal supply agreements. Approximately 25% of our total sales volume for 2007 was attributable to contractor-operated mines. Certain of our contractor-operated mines have experienced adverse geologic conditions, escalated operating costs and/or financial difficulties that have made their delivery of coal to us at the contracted price difficult or uncertain. Our profitability or exposure to loss on transactions or relationships such as these is dependent upon a variety of factors, including the availability and reliability of the third-party supply; the price and financial viability of the third-party supply; our obligation to supply coal to customers in the event that adverse geologic conditions restrict deliveries from our suppliers; our willingness to participate in temporary cost increases experienced by third-party coal suppliers; our ability to pass on temporary cost increases to customers; and our ability to substitute, when economical, third-party coal sources with internal production or coal purchased in the market, and other factors. Inaccuracies in our estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs or decreased profitability. We base our proven and probable coal reserve information on engineering, economic and geological data previously assembled and analyzed by Peabody’s staff, which includes various engineers and geologists, and which is periodically reviewed by an outside firm. The reserve estimates as to both quantity and quality are annually updated to reflect production of coal from the reserves and new drilling or other data received. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves and net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions relating to geological and mining conditions, relevant historical production statistics, the assumed effects of regulation and taxes, future coal prices, operating costs, mining technology improvements, severance and excise taxes, development costs and reclamation costs. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities and qualities attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of coal reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of net cash flows expected from particular reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties and revenues and expenditures with respect to our proven and probable coal reserves may vary materially from estimates. These estimates, thus, may not accurately reflect our actual coal reserves. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our proven and probable coal reserves could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs or decreased profitability. If the coal industry experiences overcapacity in the future, our profitability could be impaired. During the mid-1970s and early 1980s, a growing coal market and increased demand for coal attracted new investors to the coal industry, spurred the development of new mines and resulted in production capacity in excess of market demand throughout the industry. Similarly, increases in future coal prices could encourage the development of expanded capacity by new or existing coal producers. Coal with lower delivered production costs shipped east from western coal mines and from offshore sources can result in increased competition for coal sales in regions 22 Table of Contents historically sourced from Appalachian producers. We could experience decreased profitability if future coal production is consistently greater than coal demand. We could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 2,300 employees. Approximately 61% of our employees as of December 31, 2007 at company operations were represented by the UMWA, and these operations generated approximately 49% of our 2007 sales volume. Relations with our employees and, where applicable, organized labor are important to our success. The current labor contract for most of our represented employees became effective January 1, 2007 and will expire on December 31, 2011. We operate a mine in western Kentucky with a separate UMWA contract covering approximately 350 employees. A labor contract covering these employees will expire on December 31, 2011. Due to the higher labor costs and the increased risk of strikes and other work-related stoppages that may be associated with union operations in the coal industry, our competitors who operate without union labor may have a competitive advantage in areas where they compete with our unionized operations. If some or all of our current non-union operations or those of third party contract miners were to become organized, we could incur an increased risk of work stoppages, reduced productivity and higher labor costs. A shortage of skilled labor and qualified managers in our operating regions could pose a risk to achieving improved labor productivity and competitive costs and could adversely affect our profitability. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled laborers with mining experience and proficiency as well as qualified managers and supervisors. In recent years, a shortage of experienced coal miners and managers in Appalachia and the Illinois Basin has at times negatively impacted our production levels and increased our costs. If the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on our productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our coal, which could adversely affect our profitability. A decrease in the availability or increase in costs of key supplies, capital equipment or commodities could decrease our anticipated profitability. Our purchases of some items of underground mining equipment are concentrated with one principal supplier. Further, our mining operations require a reliable supply of steel-related products (including roof control), replacement parts, belting products, and lubricants. If the cost of any of these inputs increased significantly, or if a source for such mining equipment or supplies were unavailable to meet our replacement demands, our profitability could be reduced from our current expectations. Industry-wide demand growth has exceeded supply growth for certain underground mining equipment, surface and other capital equipment. As a result, lead times for some items have increased significantly. Our coal mining production and delivery are subject to conditions and events beyond our control, which could result in higher operating expenses and/or decreased production and sales and adversely affect our operating results. Our coal mining operations are conducted, in large part, in underground mines and, to a lesser extent, at surface mines. The level of our production at these mines is subject to operating conditions and events beyond our control that could disrupt operations, affect production and the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time and have a significant impact on our operating results. Adverse operating conditions and events that coal producers have experienced in the past include changes or variations in geologic conditions, such as the thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit, mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems, adverse weather and natural disasters, such as snowstorms, heavy rains and flooding, accidental mine water inflows and unexpected mine safety accidents, including fires and explosions from methane and other sources. If any of these conditions or events occur in the future at any of our mines or affect deliveries of our coal to customers, they may increase our cost of mining and delay or halt production at particular mines or sales to our 23 Table of Contents customers either permanently or for varying lengths of time, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot assure you that these risks would be fully covered by our insurance policies. In addition, the geological characteristics of underground coal reserves in Appalachia and the Illinois Basin, such as rock intrusions, overmining, undermining and coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be mineable at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. In addition, coal companies with larger mines that utilize the longwall mining method typically have lower mine operating costs than certain of our mines that do not use the longwall mining method. These factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and the cost structures of, and customers’ willingness to purchase coal produced by, our mines in Appalachia and the Illinois Basin. Defects in title of any leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to mine these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. We conduct a significant part of our mining operations on properties that we lease. Title to most of our leased properties and mineral rights is not thoroughly verified until a permit to mine the property is obtained. Our right to mine some of our proven and probable coal reserves may be materially adversely affected by defects in title or boundaries. In order to obtain leases or mining contracts to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we may in the future have to incur unanticipated costs, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our future success depends upon our ability to develop our existing coal reserves and to acquire additional reserves that are economically recoverable. Our recoverable reserves decline as we produce coal. We have not yet applied for the permits required or developed the mines necessary to use all of our proven and probable coal reserves that are economically recoverable. Furthermore, we may not be able to mine all of our proven and probable coal reserves as profitably as we do at our current operations. Our future success depends upon our conducting successful exploration and development activities and acquiring properties containing economically recoverable proven and probable coal reserves. Our current strategy includes increasing our proven and probable coal reserves through acquisitions of leases and producing properties and continuing to use our existing properties. Our planned mine development projects and acquisition activities may not result in significant additional proven and probable coal reserves and we may not have continuing success developing additional mines. A substantial portion of our proven and probable coal reserves is not located adjacent to current operations and will require significant capital expenditures to develop. In order to develop our proven and probable coal reserves, we must receive various governmental permits. We cannot assure you that we will be able to receive the governmental permits that we would need to continue developing our proven and probable coal reserves. Most of our mining operations are conducted on properties owned or leased by us. We may not be able to negotiate new leases from private parties or obtain mining contracts for properties containing additional proven and probable coal reserves or maintain our leasehold interest in properties on which mining operations are not commenced during the term of the lease. If transportation for our coal becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers, our ability to sell coal could suffer. Coal producers depend upon rail, barge, trucking, overland conveyor, ocean-going vessels and port facilities to deliver coal to markets. While our coal customers typically arrange and pay for transportation of coal from the mine or port to the point of use, disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, infrastructure damage, strikes, lock-outs, lack of fuel or maintenance items, transportation delays, lack of port capacity or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to customers and thus could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for our customers and the cost of transportation is an important factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs, 24 Table of Contents including demurrage, could adversely impact our sales. One of our coal supply agreements, covering approximately 3.5 million tons per year, permits the customer to terminate such agreement if the barge transportation rates applicable to our shipments increase by more than a specified amount and we do not agree to reduce our selling price by the excess over such amount. Our operations may depend on the availability of additional financing and access to funds under our credit facility. We expect to have sufficient liquidity to support the development of our business. In the future, however, we may require additional financing for liquidity, capital requirements and growth initiatives. We are dependent on our ability to generate cash flows from operations and to borrow funds and issue securities in the capital markets to maintain and expand our business. We may need to incur debt on terms and at interest rates that may not be as favorable as those historically enjoyed by Peabody. In addition, future events may prevent us from borrowing funds under our revolving credit facility. Any inability by us to obtain financing in the future on favorable terms could have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Failure to obtain or renew surety bonds in a timely manner and on acceptable terms could affect our ability to secure reclamation and employee-related obligations, which could adversely affect our ability to mine coal. U.S. federal and state laws require us to secure certain of our obligations to reclaim lands used for mining, to pay federal and state workers’ compensation, and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. The primary method for us to meet those obligations is to provide a third-party surety bond or letters of credit. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding surety bonds and letters of credit aggregating $362.6 million, of which $146.0 million was for post-mining reclamation, $183.8 million related to workers’ compensation obligations, $16.9 million was for coal lease obligations and $15.9 million was for other obligations (including collateral for surety companies and bank guarantees, road maintenance and performance guarantees). These bonds are typically renewable on a yearly basis. Surety bond issuers and holders may not continue to renew the bonds or may demand additional collateral upon those renewals. Additionally, as of December 31, 2007, Peabody continued to guarantee certain bonds (self bonding) related to Patriot liabilities that have not yet been replaced by our surety bonds. As of December 31, 2007, Peabody self bonding related to Patriot liabilities aggregated $22.8 million, of which $19.9 million was for post-mining reclamation and $2.9 million was for other obligations. We expect to replace these Peabody self bonds in 2008. Our failure to maintain, or inability to acquire, surety bonds or to provide a suitable alternative would have a material adverse effect on us. That failure could result from a variety of factors including lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new surety bonds, restrictions on the availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the terms of our credit facility and the exercise by third-party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety. If our business does not generate sufficient cash for operations, we may not be able to repay borrowings under our credit facility or fund other liquidity needs. Our ability to pay principal and interest on and to refinance our debt will depend upon the operating performance of our subsidiaries. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay any borrowings under our credit facility or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may not be able to refinance the revolver under our credit facility on commercially reasonable terms, on terms acceptable to us or at all. The covenants in our credit facility impose restrictions that could limit our operational and financial flexibility. The credit facility contains certain customary covenants, including financial covenants limiting our total indebtedness (maximum leverage ratio of 2.75) and requiring minimum EBITDA coverage of interest expense (minimum interest coverage ratio of 4.0), as well as certain limitations on, among other things, additional debt, 25 Table of Contents liens, investments, acquisitions, capital expenditures, future dividends and asset sales. Compliance with debt covenants may limit our ability to draw on our credit facility. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel or fail to attract qualified personnel. We manage our business with a number of key personnel, the loss of a number of whom could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, as our business develops and expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. We cannot be certain that key personnel will continue to be employed by us or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We do not have “key person” life insurance to cover our executive officers. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers or the economy as a whole may materially adversely affect our operations or those of our customers. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to our customers, decreased sales of our coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. Any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Environmental and Other Regulation Our mining operations are extensively regulated, which imposes significant costs on us, and future regulations and developments could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal. Federal and state authorities regulate the coal mining industry with respect to matters such as employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, the protection of the environment, plants and wildlife, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. We are required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. In addition, significant legislation mandating specified benefits for retired coal miners affects our industry. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production. New or revised legislation or administrative regulations (or judicial or administrative interpretations of existing laws and regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the environment or employee health and safety that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us or our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs, which may materially adversely affect our mining operations and our cost structure. The majority of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser’s plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Furthermore, in the event of certain violations of safety rules, the Mine Safety and Health Administration may order the temporary closure of mines. In addition, our customers may challenge our issuance of force majeure notices in connection with such closures. If these challenges are successful, we could be obligated to make up lost shipments, to reimburse customers for the additional costs to purchase replacement coal, or, in some cases, to terminate certain sales contracts. 26 Table of Contents Our expenditures for postretirement benefit obligations could be materially higher than we have predicted if our actual experience differs from the underlying assumptions. We provide postretirement health and life insurance benefits to eligible union and non-union employees. We calculated the total accumulated postretirement benefit obligation according to the guidance provided by SFAS No. 106. We estimated the present value of the obligation to be $554.7 million as of December 31, 2007. We have estimated these unfunded obligations based on assumptions described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially higher. We could be liable for certain retiree healthcare obligations to be assumed by Peabody in connection with the spin-off. In connection with the spin-off, a Peabody subsidiary assumed certain retiree healthcare obligations of Patriot and its subsidiaries having a present value of $603.4 million as of December 31, 2007. These obligations arise under the Coal Act, the 2007 NBCWA and predecessor agreements and a subsidiary’s salaried retiree healthcare plan. Although the Peabody subsidiary will be obligated to pay such obligations, certain Patriot subsidiaries will also remain jointly and severally liable for the Coal Act obligations, and secondarily liable for the assumed 2007 NBCWA obligations and retiree healthcare obligations for certain participants under a subsidiary’s retiree healthcare plan. As a consequence, Patriot’s recorded retiree healthcare obligations and related cash costs could increase substantially if the Peabody subsidiary fails to perform its obligations under the liability assumption agreements. These additional liabilities and costs, if incurred, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans, we may have exposure that extends beyond what our obligations would be with respect to our employees. Certain of our subsidiaries participate in two defined benefit multi-employer pension funds that were established as a result of collective bargaining with the UMWA pursuant to the 2007 NBCWA as periodically negotiated. These plans provide pension and disability pension benefits to qualifying represented employees retiring from a participating employer where the employee last worked prior to January 1, 1976, in the case of the UMWA 1950 Pension Plan, or after December 31, 1975, in the case of the UMWA 1974 Pension Plan. In December 2006, the 2007 NBCWA was signed, which required funding of the 1974 Pension Plan through 2011 under a phased funding schedule. The funding is based on an hourly rate for active UMWA workers. Under the labor contract, the per hour funding rate increased from zero to $2.00 in 2007 and will increase each year thereafter until reaching $5.50 in 2011. Our subsidiaries with UMWA-represented employees are required to contribute to the 1974 Pension Plan at the new hourly rates. Contributions to these funds could increase as a result of future collective bargaining with the UMWA, a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency of other coal companies who currently contribute to these funds, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. Our exposure to statutory retiree healthcare costs could be significantly higher than we have estimated. The 2006 Act authorized $490 million in general fund revenues to pay for certain benefits, including the healthcare costs under the Combined Fund, 1992 Benefit Plan and 1993 Benefit Plan (each as described above under Item 1. Business — Certain Liabilities — Retiree Healthcare) for “orphans” who are retirees and their dependents. Under the 2006 Act, these orphan benefits will be the responsibility of the federal government on a phased-in basis through 2012. If Congress were to amend or repeal the 2006 Act or if the $490 million authorization were insufficient to pay for these healthcare costs, certain of our subsidiaries, along with other contributing employers and their affiliates, would be responsible for the excess costs. Our aggregate cash payments to the Combined Fund, 1992 Benefit Plan and 1993 Benefit Plan were $21.4 million and $15.2 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. 27 Table of Contents Concerns about the environmental impacts of coal combustion, such as impacts on global climate change, are resulting in increased regulation of coal combustion and could significantly affect demand for our products. Widely publicized scientific reports in 2007, such as the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, have engendered widespread concern about the impacts of human activity, especially fossil fuel combustion, on global climate change. As a result, considerable and increasing government attention in the United States is being paid to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, particularly from coal combustion by power plants. As a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s recent decision in Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency, the EPA is considering regulating greenhouse gas emissions. Legislation is also currently pending in Congress, and a growing number of states in the United States have taken or are considering taking steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including by requiring reductions on carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants. These legislative efforts may have an adverse impact on our business. For example, enactment of laws and/or the passage of regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions by the United States or some of its states, or other actions to limit carbon dioxide emissions, could result in electric generators switching from coal to other fuel sources. The EPA is also considering more stringent regulations to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and mercury. Certain states have independently established requirements that are more stringent than the current EPA proposals. Further developments in connection with legislation, regulations or other limits on greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts from coal combustion, both in the United States and in other countries where we sell coal, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We may be unable to obtain and renew permits necessary for our operations, which would reduce our production, cash flows and profitability. Mining companies must obtain numerous permits and approvals that impose strict regulations relating to environmental and safety matters. These include permits issued by various federal and state agencies and regulatory bodies. The permitting rules are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time, making our ability to comply with the applicable requirements more difficult or even unachievable, thereby precluding continuing or future mining operations. Private individuals and the public have certain rights to comment upon, submit objections to, and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through court intervention. Some permits, such as the authorizations issued under Nationwide Permit 21 and Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, have been subject to legal challenge. Section 404 of the Clean Water Act requires mining companies to obtain U.S. Army Corps of Engineers permits to place material in streams for the purpose of creating slurry ponds, water impoundments, refuse areas, valley fills or other mining activities. These permits have been the subject of multiple recent court cases, the results of which have increased permitting costs and increased the amount of time needed to obtain permits. The permits we need may not be issued, maintained or renewed, may be subject to public challenge, may impose burdensome conditions, or may not be issued or renewed in a timely fashion. An inability to conduct our mining operations pursuant to applicable permits and approvals could adversely affect our production, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to us. Certain of our current and historical coal mining operations have used hazardous materials and, to the extent that such materials are not recycled, they could become hazardous waste. We may be subject to claims under federal and state statutes and/or common law doctrines for toxic torts and other damages, as well as for natural resource damages and the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media under laws such as CERCLA, commonly known as Superfund. Such claims may arise, for example, out of current or former conditions at sites that we own or operate currently, as well as at sites that we and companies we acquired owned or operated in the past, and at contaminated sites that have always been owned or operated by third parties. Liability may be without regard to fault and may be strict, joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share. We maintain coal slurry impoundments at a number of our mines. Such impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. Structural failure of an impoundment can result in extensive damage to the environment and natural 28 Table of Contents resources, such as streams or bodies of water and wildlife, as well as related personal injuries and property damages which in turn can give rise to extensive liability. Some of our impoundments overlie areas where some mining has occurred, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of damages arising out of failure. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could materially and adversely affect us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 