Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us or otherwise associated with an investment in our common stock. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. We have attempted to identify the major factors under the heading “Risk Factors” that could cause differences between actual and planned or expected results, and we have included these material risk factors. If any of the following risks actually happen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Risks Relating to Our Company We are at an early stage of development and have minimal operating history as an independent company. Our future revenues and profits are uncertain. We are an exploration-stage venture with minimal operating history as an independent company. We were incorporated in September 2006 and commenced operations in May 2007 with properties and other mineral assets formerly held by Vista and the Pescios. See “Explanatory Notes—Formation of Allied Nevada”. None of these properties is currently producing gold in commercial quantities and there can be no assurance that these properties, or others that may be acquired by us in the future, will produce gold in commercial quantities or 6 Table of Contents otherwise generate operating earnings. Although our properties include the Hycroft Mine, operations at the Hycroft Mine were suspended in December 1998, and the site was placed on care and maintenance and remains at this status today. As discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Board of Directors recently approved the reactivation of the Hycroft Brimstone Open Pit Mine, and we have started planning and conducting activities for the proposed reactivation. Even if we re-commence mining activities at the Hycroft Mine or commence development activity on other properties, we may continue to incur losses beyond the period of commencement of such activity. There is no certainty that we will produce revenue, operate profitably or provide a return on investment in the future. If we are unable to generate revenues or profits, investors might not be able to realize returns on their investment in our common stock or keep from losing their investment. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The reactivation of the Hycroft Brimstone Open Pit Mine is subject to risks including delays in completion and we may be unable to achieve anticipated production volume or manage cost increases. Completion of the reactivation of our Hycroft Mine is subject to various factors, including the availability and performance of our engineering and construction contractors, mining contractors, suppliers and consultants and receipt of required governmental approvals. Any delay in the performance of any one or more of the contractors, suppliers, consultants or other persons on which we depend, or delay or failure to receive required governmental approvals, could delay or prevent the reactivation of the Hycroft Mine as currently planned. There can be no assurance: • when or whether the Hycroft Mine will be reactivated and start-up will re-commence; • that we will be able to timely obtain sufficient funds to finance reactivation and development activities; • that available personnel and equipment will be available to us, including availability of a mining contractor to complete the prestrip and availability of a contractor to construct the leach pad; • that we will timely obtain necessary reclamation bond approvals; • whether the resulting operations will achieve the anticipated production volume; or • that the reactivation costs and ongoing operating costs associated with the development of the Hycroft Mine will not be higher than anticipated. Although most of our executive management team has experience in developing and operating mines, Allied Nevada, as a newly-formed independent company, has never developed or operated a mine or managed a significant mine development project. We cannot assure you that the reactivation of the Hycroft Mine will be completed at the cost and on the schedule predicted, or that gold grades and recoveries, production rates or anticipated capital or operating costs will be achieved. Although we believe that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to complete the reactivation of the Hycroft Mine we cannot provide assurance of this. Furthermore, if the actual cost to complete the project is significantly higher than currently expected, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to cover these costs or that we will be able to obtain alternative sources of financing to cover these costs. Unexpected cost increases, reduced gold prices or the failure to obtain necessary additional financing on acceptable terms to complete the reactivation of the Hycroft Mine on a timely basis, or to achieve anticipated production capacity, could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We cannot be certain that our acquisition, exploration and evaluation activities will be commercially successful. Although we have recently commenced activities in connection with our planned reactivation of the Hycroft Mine, we currently have no properties that produce gold in commercial quantities. Substantial expenditures are required to acquire existing gold properties, to establish ore reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to develop the mining 7 Table of Contents and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. We cannot provide assurance that any gold reserves or mineralized material acquired or discovered will be in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that the funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. Whether income will result from the Hycroft Mine depends on the successful re-establishment of mining operations. Factors including costs, actual mineralization, consistency and reliability of ore grades and commodity prices affect successful project development. The reactivation and efficient operation of processing facilities, the existence of competent operational management and prudent financial administration, as well as the availability and reliability of appropriately skilled and experienced consultants also can affect successful project development which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. The price of gold is subject to fluctuations, which could adversely affect the realizable value of our assets and potential future results of operations and cash flow. Our principal assets are gold reserves and mineralized material. We intend to attempt to acquire additional properties containing gold reserves and mineralized material. The price that we pay to acquire these properties will be, in large part, influenced by the price of gold at the time of the acquisition. Our potential future revenues are expected to be, in large part, derived from the mining and sale of gold from these properties or from the outright sale or joint venture of some of these properties. The value of these gold reserves and mineralized material, and the value of any potential gold production therefrom, will vary in proportion to variations in gold prices. The price of gold has fluctuated widely, and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, international, economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, central bank activities, interest rates, global or regional consumption patterns and speculative activities. The effect of these factors on the price of gold, and therefore the economic viability of any of our projects, cannot accurately be predicted. Any drop in the price of gold would adversely affect our asset values, cash flows, potential revenues and profits. Mining exploration, development and operating activities are inherently hazardous. Mineral exploration involves many risks that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations in which we have direct or indirect interests will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of gold and other metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to property and possible environmental damage. The nature of these risks is such that liabilities might exceed any liability insurance policy limits. It is also possible that the liabilities and hazards might not be insurable, or, that we could elect not to insure Allied Nevada against such liabilities due to high premium costs or other reasons, in which event, we could incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Reserve calculations are estimates only, subject to uncertainty due to factors including metal prices, inherent variability of the ore and recoverability of metal in the mining process. There is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of reserves and corresponding grades dedicated to future production. Until reserves are actually mined and processed, the quantity of ore and grades must be considered as an estimate only. In addition, the quantity of reserves and ore may vary depending on metal prices. Any material change in the quantity of reserves, mineralization, grade or stripping ratio may affect the economic viability of our properties. In addition, there can be no assurance that gold recoveries or other metal recoveries in small-scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production. We may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms. The exploration and development of our development properties, specifically our planned reactivation of the Hycroft Mine and other construction of mining facilities and commencement of mining operations, will require substantial additional financing. Significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production 8 Table of Contents from each non-producing property. We will have to raise additional funds from external sources in order to reactivate the Hycroft Mine, maintain and advance our existing property positions and to acquire new gold projects. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available at all or on acceptable terms and, if additional financing is not available to us, we may have to substantially reduce or cease operations. We face intense competition in the mining industry. The mining industry is intensely competitive in all of its phases. As a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies with substantial capabilities and with greater financial and technical resources than ours, we may be unable to acquire additional attractive mining claims or financing on terms we consider acceptable. This, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition and our future results of operations. We also compete with other mining companies in the recruitment and retention of qualified managerial and technical employees. If we are unable to successfully compete for qualified employees, our exploration and development programs may be slowed down or suspended. In addition, we compete with other gold companies for capital. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital, our exploration and development programs may be jeopardized or we may not be able to acquire, develop or operate gold projects. We will depend on outside sources to place our mineral deposit properties into production. Our ability to place our properties into production will be dependent upon using the services of appropriately experienced personnel or contractors and purchasing equipment, or entering into agreements with other major resource companies that can provide such expertise or equipment. There can be no assurance that we will have available to us the necessary expertise or equipment when and if we place our mineral deposit properties into production. If we are unable to successfully retain such expertise and equipment, our development and growth could be significantly curtailed. In connection with the planned reactivation of our Hycroft Mine, important requirements for us to achieve gold production as currently scheduled include the availability of a mining contractor or the availability of a mining fleet to complete the prestrip. There can be no assurance that these contractors will be available to us on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to our management. If we are unable to secure such contractors, our development and growth could be significantly curtailed. Our operations are subject to numerous governmental permits which are difficult to obtain and we may not be able to obtain or renew all of the permits we require, or such permits may not be timely obtained or renewed. In the ordinary course of business we are required to obtain and renew governmental permits for our operations, including the reactivation, operation and expansion of the Hycroft Mine. Obtaining or renewing the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving costly undertakings by Allied Nevada. The duration and success of our efforts to obtain and renew permits are contingent upon many variables not within our control including the interpretation of applicable requirements implemented by the permitting authority. We may not be able to obtain or renew permits that are necessary to our operations, or the cost to obtain or renew permits may exceed our estimates. Failure to comply with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations may result in injunctions, fines, suspension or revocation or permits and other penalties. There can be no assurance that we have been or will at all times be in full compliance with all such laws and regulations and with our environmental and health and safety permits or that we have all required permits. The costs and delays associated with compliance with these laws, regulations and permits and with the permitting process could stop us from proceeding with the operation or development of the Hycroft Mine or increase the costs of development or production and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Our exploration and development operations are subject to environmental regulations, which could result in the incurrence of additional costs and operational delays. All phases of our operations are subject to environmental regulation. Environmental legislation is evolving in some countries or jurisdictions in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect our projects. We will be subject to environmental regulations with respect to our properties in Nevada, under applicable federal and state laws and regulations. In connection with the planned reactivation of our Hycroft Mine, we will be dependent upon receipt of environmental approvals including reclamation bond approval, the timing of which will be critical to our ability to restart production as currently scheduled. Our properties in Nevada occupy private and public lands. The public lands include unpatented mining claims on lands administered by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Nevada State Office. These claims are governed by the laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and the state of Nevada. U.S. Federal Laws The BLM requires that mining operations on lands subject to its regulation obtain an approved plan of operations subject to environmental impact evaluation under the U.S. National Environmental Policy Act. Any significant modifications to the plan of operations may require the completion of an environmental assessment or Environmental Impact Statement prior to approval. Mining companies must post a bond or other surety to guarantee the cost of post-mining reclamation. These requirements could add significant additional cost and delays to any mining project Allied Nevada undertakes. Under the U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, mining companies may incur costs for generating, transporting, treating, storing, or disposing of hazardous waste, as well as for closure and post-closure maintenance once they have completed mining activities on a property. Our mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants, from stationary equipment, storage facilities, and the use of mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment which are subject to review, monitoring and/or control requirements under the Federal Clean Air Act and state air quality laws. Permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or create additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the rules. The U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA) imposes strict joint and several liability on parties associated with releases or threats of releases of hazardous substances. The groups who could be found liable include, among others, the current owners and operators of facilities which release hazardous substances into the environment and past owners and operators of properties who owned such properties at the time the disposal of the hazardous substances occurred. This liability could include the cost of removal or remediation of the release and damages for injury to the surrounding property. We cannot predict the potential for future CERCLA liability with respect to our properties. Nevada Laws At the state level, mining operations in Nevada are also regulated by the Nevada Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Protection. Nevada state law requires the Hycroft Mine to hold Nevada Water Pollution Control Permits, which dictate operating controls and closure and post-closure requirements directed at protecting surface and ground water. In addition, we are required to hold Nevada Reclamation Permits required under NRS 519A.010 through 519A.170. These permits mandate concurrent and post-mining reclamation of mines and require the posting of reclamation bonds sufficient to guarantee the cost of mine reclamation. Other Nevada regulations govern operating and design standards for the 10 Table of Contents construction and operation of any source of air contamination and landfill operations. Any changes to these laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and results of operations by, for example, required changes to operating constraints, technical criteria, fees or surety requirements. Legislation has been proposed that would significantly affect the mining industry. Members of the U.S. Congress have repeatedly introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the Mining Law of 1872. If enacted, such legislation could change the cost of holding unpatented mining claims and could significantly impact our ability to develop mineralized material on unpatented mining claims. Such bills have proposed, among other things, to either eliminate or greatly limit the right to a mineral patent and to impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims. Although it is impossible to predict at this point what any legislated royalties might be, enactment could adversely affect the potential for development of such mining claims and the economics of existing operating mines on federal unpatented mining claims. Passage of such legislation could adversely affect our financial performance. Increased costs could affect our financial condition. We anticipate that costs at the Hycroft Mine, as well as other properties that we may explore or develop, will frequently be subject to variation from one year to the next due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities such as fuel and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production at certain operations less profitable. A material increase in costs at any significant location could have a significant effect on our profitability. A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out our mining exploration and development operations. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. We are dependent on third parties that are responsible for exploration and development on some of our properties. Our success may be dependent on the efforts and expertise of third parties with whom we have contracted. A large number of the properties in which Allied Nevada holds interests are subject to third party contracts. Third parties are responsible for exploration and discovery with respect to certain of Allied Nevada’s mineral properties and related assets. Such third parties are not under Allied Nevada’s control or direction. We are dependent on such third parties for accurate information with respect to our mining properties and related assets and the progress and development of such properties and assets. The third parties control the time of exploration and, if warranted, the development of certain of Allied Nevada’s mining properties and related assets. A third party may be in default of its agreement with Allied Nevada, without our knowledge, which may put the property and related assets at risk. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to establish and develop our business. Our development in the future will be highly dependent on the efforts of key management employees, namely, Robert Buchan, our Executive Chairman, Scott Caldwell, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Hal Kirby, our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mike Doyle, our Vice President of Technical Services, and Rick Russell, our Vice President of Exploration, and other key employees that we hire in the future. Although we have entered into employment agreements with key employees, except for Robert Buchan, as determined by Allied Nevada, we do not have and currently have no plans to obtain key man insurance with 11 Table of Contents respect to any of our key employees. As well, we will need to recruit and retain other qualified managerial and technical employees to build and maintain our operations. If we are unable to successfully recruit and retain such persons, our development and growth could be significantly curtailed. Our lack of operating experience may cause us difficulty in managing our growth. As a newly-independent entity, Allied Nevada is establishing operating procedures for evaluating, acquiring and developing properties, and negotiating, establishing and maintaining strategic relationships. Our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to improve and expand our management and our operational and financial systems and controls. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. In addition, if rapid growth occurs, it may strain our operational, managerial and financial resources. There may be challenges to our title to our mineral properties. Our U.S. mineral properties consist of private mineral rights, leases covering state and private lands, leases of patented mining claims, and unpatented mining claims. Many of our mining properties in the U.S. are unpatented mining claims to which we have only possessory title. Because title to unpatented mining claims is subject to inherent uncertainties, it is difficult to determine conclusively ownership of such claims. These uncertainties relate to such things as sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper posting and marking of boundaries and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from descriptions of record. Since a substantial portion of all mineral exploration, development and mining in the U.S. now occurs on unpatented mining claims, this uncertainty is inherent in the mining industry. The present status of our unpatented mining claims located on public lands allows us the exclusive right to mine and remove valuable minerals, such as precious and base metals. We also are allowed to use the surface of the land solely for purposes related to mining and processing the mineral-bearing ores. However, legal ownership of the land remains with the U.S. We remain at risk that the mining claims may be forfeited either to the U.S. or to rival private claimants due to failure to comply with statutory requirements. There may be challenges to title to the mineral properties in which we hold a material interest. If there are title defects with respect to any properties, we might be required to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert our management’s time from ongoing exploration and development programs. Our principal stockholders will be able to exert significant influence over matters submitted to stockholders for approval, which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control or result in the entrenchment of management or the board of directors, possibly conflicting with the interests of our other stockholders. Carl and Janet Pescio own approximately 21.6% of the issued and outstanding shares of Allied Nevada. In addition to being a major stockholder, Mr. Pescio is a director of Allied Nevada. Because of the Pescios’ major shareholding and Mr. Pescio’s position on the Allied Nevada Board, the Pescios could exert significant influence in determining the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval and otherwise control our business. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or entrenching our management or the board of directors, which could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders and, consequently, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we fail to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our business may be adversely affected. As a new reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), we are subject to certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This Act, and related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC and stock exchanges, affects corporate governance, securities disclosure, compliance 12 Table of Contents practices, disclosure controls and procedures, and financial reporting and accounting systems. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, for example, requires companies subject to the reporting requirements of the United States securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of their internal controls over financial reporting. Beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2009, we will need to document and test our internal control procedures, our management will need to assess and report on our internal control over financial reporting and our independent accountants will need to issue an opinion on the effectiveness of those controls. If we fail to comply with Section 404 when we are required to comply, or if we or our independent auditors identify issues in our compliance with requirements relating to internal controls, we may be prevented from providing the required financial information in a timely manner (which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock), or be prevented from otherwise complying with the standards applicable to Allied Nevada as a public company, which could subject us to adverse regulatory consequences. Some of our directors may have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. Some of our directors are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies, or may be involved in related pursuits that could present conflicts of interest with their roles at Allied Nevada. Robert Buchan is Chairman of Extract Resources Limited and a director of Quest Capital Corp. W. Durand Eppler is CEO and a director of Coal International PLC, a director of Vista, a director of Augusta Resource Corporation and director and non-executive Chairman of NEMI Northern Energy & Mining Inc. Terry M. Palmer is a director of Apex Silver Mines Limited. Michael B. Richings is Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and a director of Vista and is a director of Zaruma Resources Inc., which holds interests in mining properties. John Ivany is a director of Breakwater Resources Ltd. Cameron Mingay is a director of Silver Bear Resources Inc. Robert G. Wardell is Vice-President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Victory Nickel Inc. and a director of Katanga Mining Limited. Carl Pescio is a director of Tornado Gold International Corp. As well, Mr. Pescio may pursue ventures with mining properties other than those held by Allied Nevada. As a condition to completion of the Arrangement, Mr. Pescio entered into non-competition and professional service agreements with us. See “Part III – Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Transactions with Promoters”. These associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. In the event that any such conflict of interest arises, a director who has such a conflict is required to disclose the conflict to a meeting of the directors of the company in question and to abstain from voting for or against approval of any matter in which such director may have a conflict. In appropriate cases, we will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may have a conflict. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our common stock has only recently begun trading and the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. Our common stock only began trading in May 2007 and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for Allied Nevada common stock will develop or be sustained in the future. We cannot predict the prices at which Allied Nevada common stock may trade. The market price of the common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond the control of Allied Nevada including, but not limited to, fluctuations in the price of gold; announcements by us or competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; and overall market fluctuations and general economic conditions. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Investors may be unable to accurately value our common stock. Investors often value companies based on the stock prices and results of operations of other comparable companies. Currently, no other public gold exploration company exists that is directly comparable to our size and scale. Further, the Pescios’ assets had previously been privately held. Prospective investors, therefore, have 13 Table of Contents limited historical information about certain of the properties held by Allied Nevada upon which to base an evaluation of Allied Nevada’s performance and prospects and an investment in our common stock. As such, investors may find it difficult to accurately value our common stock, which may cause the common stock price to trade in a range that does not reflect Allied Nevada’s true value. Future sales of our common stock in the public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public or private markets, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. As of March 4, 2008, 42,974,150 shares of our common stock were outstanding, of which 25,403,207 were issued to Vista shareholders pursuant to the Arrangement in reliance on the exemption from registration under the Securities Act pursuant to Section 3(a)(10) thereof and are freely transferable by persons other than affiliates of Allied Nevada or Vista without restriction or registration under the Securities Act and 1,529,848 shares were retained by Vista to facilitate payment of taxes by Vista. As well, 12,000,000 shares were issued to the Pescios who subsequently transferred an aggregate of 2,700,000 of those shares to two transferees. The Allied Nevada shares held by the Pescios and their transferees are “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act and may not be sold in the absence of registration under the Securities Act unless an exemption from registration is available, including an exemption contained in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We were obligated to register 35% of these shares, or 4,200,000, for resale and accordingly filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-1 to register those shares for resale. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on August 7, 2007. With that registration statement we also registered for resale 3,696,000 shares of common stock that we issued in July 2007 as part of a private placement of 3,696,000 units, each comprised of one share of common stock and one common share purchase warrant. We also agreed to register for resale the shares issuable on warrant exercise at a later date and we also plan to register for resale an aggregate of 229,700 shares underlying the finder warrants we issued as partial compensation to one of the finders in the transaction. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our shares for future sale, will have on the trading price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain all of our earnings for the foreseeable future to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. Our Board of Directors retains the discretion to change this policy. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 