Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. Discussion about important operational risks that our business encounters can be found in Item 1 and in Item 7 of this report, as well as in the discussion below. Risks Related to Our Business We have been in business only since August 2003. Our limited operating history makes evaluation of our business and financial prospects difficult. We were incorporated in the State of California as Network Dynamics in August 2003, and we have limited historical financial data and a limited operating history. As a result, it is difficult to evaluate our performance and to forecast our future operating results. Our prospects should be considered in view of the risks and uncertainties that we face as an early stage company, including whether we will be able to: · increase revenues from sales of our products and support services; · successfully protect our ARGUS Network from security attacks; · successfully protect our customers’ personal computers and networks from Internet threats; · respond effectively to competitive pressures; · protect our intellectual property rights; · continue to develop and upgrade our technology; and · renew our customers’ subscriptions for current and future products and services. We incurred net losses for our last five fiscal years. We are not certain that our operations will ever be profitable. We incurred a net loss of $5,507,600 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, a net loss of $5,866,123 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, a net loss of $11,251,772 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, a net loss of $19,841,756 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, and a net loss of $39,609,020 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. We can provide no assurance as to when, or if, we will be profitable in the future. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it. We may need additional capital in the future to meet our obligations and financing may not be available. We currently anticipate that our available capital resources, including our operating cash flows, will be sufficient to meet our expected working capital and capital expenditure requirements through December 31, 2011. However, our capital resources may not be sufficient to fund the repayment of the obligations to GRM in the amount of $11.2 million due on March 31, 2012. We may need to obtain additional financing prior to March 31, 2012 to satisfy the obligation. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure additional financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. In the event we are unable to obtain additional financing, we will attempt to renegotiate the terms of the GRM obligation; however, there can be no assurance that this would occur. If we are unable to obtain additional funding or renegotiate the GRM obligation, we may be required to curtail our operations significantly, which would have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. In addition, in the event of the Company’s default under the GRM obligation, GRM has the right to require us to retain a consultant or hire an executive who would, during the duration of the event of default, be senior to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and who would oversee the management and operations of the Company, subject to the direction of the Company’s Board of Directors. A default in the repayment of the GRM obligation could, therefore, have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. 10 Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and make it difficult to forecast our operating results accurately. We expect that our revenue, gross margins and operating results, which we disclose from time to time on a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) and non-GAAP basis, may fluctuate materially from quarter to quarter and from year to year. As a result, our operating results for prior periods may not be indicative of our future performance. In addition, the fluctuations make it difficult for us to forecast operating results. We try to adjust expenses based in part on our expectations regarding future revenue, but in the short term expenses are relatively fixed. This makes it difficult for us to adjust our expenses in time to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall in a given period that might result from a decrease in demand for our products and services. Our financial results also have been in the past, and may continue to be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other accounting charges, including: deferral of revenue and expenses, amortization of intangible assets; stock-based compensation expense; and valuation of warrants. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. If our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. Fluctuations in demand for our products and services are driven by many factors, and a decrease in demand for our products and services could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Fluctuations in demand for our products and services are due to many factors, including; general economic conditions; competition; product obsolescence or unpopularity with customers and potential customers’ unfavorable perceptions of our business reputation; technological changes; shifts in buying patterns; financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers; levels of broadband usage; and awareness of security threats to information technology systems. Although some of these factors may, during some periods, increase demand for our products and services, fluctuations in demand also can adversely affect our sales of products and services. If demand for our products and services declines because of general economic conditions or other reasons our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Adverse conditions in the national and global economies and financial markets may adversely affect our business and financial condition. National and global economies and financial markets recently experienced a prolonged downturn stemming from many factors, including adverse credit conditions impacted by the sub-prime mortgage crisis, slower or receding economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, fluctuating energy costs, high unemployment, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns and other factors. The U.S. and many other countries also have experienced slowed or receding economic growth and disruptions in the financial markets. The length of time required to recover from these economic and financial market conditions is unknown. During challenging economic times, periods of high unemployment and in tight credit markets, many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. This could result: in reductions in sales of our products and services; longer sales cycles; slower adoption of new technologies; lower renewal rates; and increased price competition. In addition, difficulties in collections of accounts receivable could increase and, accordingly, our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable could be increased. These results may persist even if certain economic conditions improve. Any of these events likely would adversely affect our business and financial condition. 11 Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, require public companies to maintain disclosure controls and procedures. Our disclosure controls and procedures are not effective at the reasonable assurance level due to a material weakness. Additionally, we have been unable to maintain effective internal controls over our financial reporting in accordance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 due to a material weakness. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Included in this Form 10-K are reports on our disclosure controls and procedures and on our internal control over financial reporting. As a result of deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures and in our internal control over financial reporting, we concluded that neither was effective as of December 31, 2010. In order to remedy these deficiencies we appointed four independent directors to our six-member Board of Directors, formed an independent Audit Committee and will implement specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees. We also improved our existing accounting policies and procedures by, among other things, recruiting and hiring additional employees to assist with accounting functions, formally documenting all accounting policies and procedures and paying for the costs of continuing education for our employees involved with accounting functions. These improvements have resulted in increased salaries and increased legal and accounting expenses. Our failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could result in the loss of investors’ confidence in our financial reporting, our financial statements being unreliable, and a material decline in our stock price. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could result in investigations, enforcement actions, and monetary and other sanctions by regulatory authorities, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our websites and our products and services may be subject to disruptions and security breaches. If a disruption or security breach occurred, our reputation could be damaged and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, we could be the target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance of our websites and our products and services and to harm our reputation. Computer “hackers” may attempt to penetrate our network or our websites and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services. Because the techniques used by hackers change frequently and may not be recognized until they are used to attack a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. The theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of an attack could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand and future sales of our products and services. In addition, our customers could assert claims against us related to resulting losses of their personal and confidential information. As a result, our business could be subject to significant disruption, we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, we update and modify our accounting and other systems from time to time, and the updates and modifications may be disruptive to our business. They also may cause us to incur higher costs than we anticipate. We and our customers also face a number of potential business interruption risks that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other unexpected events. Our corporate headquarters in Los Angeles, California is located very near to a major earthquake fault. The potential impact of a major earthquake on our facilities, infrastructure and overall operations is not known, but likely would be severe. Although we implemented business interruption and disaster recovery programs, an earthquake could seriously disrupt our business. We are largely uninsured for losses and business disruptions caused by an earthquake and other natural disasters. 12 During the past year our business has grown rapidly. If we do not manage this growth carefully, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Since January 1, 2010, our business has continued to grow rapidly. Our sales increased 142% for the year ended December 31, 2010 in contrast to the year ended December 31, 2009. The number of full-time employees and consultants we employ grew from 69 full-time employees and 50 independent contractors as of December 31, 2009 to 379 full-time employees and 307 independent contractors as of December 31, 2010. The growth of our business has placed a strain on our management and resources and has required, and may continue to require, the implementation of new operating systems and the expansion of our facilities. Our failure to manage our growth and expansion could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Failure to implement new systems effectively or within a reasonable period of time also could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have made substantial investments in personnel and facilities in anticipation that our growth will continue. If the projections about our growth are not accurate, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. We believe that the growth we have experienced during the past two years will continue for the immediate future. As a result, we have made substantial investments in personnel, systems and facilities. If our growth does not continue, our operating expenses may exceed our revenue. Although we may be able to eliminate or reduce some expenses, some fixed costs such as rent could not be reduced easily, or at all. As a result, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our Media and Marketing Services Agreement with GRM could be terminated. The termination of this agreement could adversely affect our operating results. Pursuant to the terms of the Media and Marketing Services Agreement we entered into with GRM, GRM may terminate the agreement for any reason by giving us 30 days written notice. In addition, if we breach the agreement or default in the performance of any obligation under the agreement, unless the breach or default is cured within 15 business days. GRM is entitled to terminate the agreement upon 5 days written notice to us in the event that the average media placement costs for any 3 consecutive months during the term are less than $250,000 per month. We earn significant revenues from our agreement with GRM. If GRM decided to terminate the agreement, our operating results could be adversely affected. We advertise and market our products and services through search engines like Google and Yahoo!, e-mail and display advertising, affiliate marketing and direct response television and radio commercials. If our advertising and marketing efforts are not effective, our sales could decline and our business and financial condition would be adversely affected. We market our products and related services via direct response television and radio commercials and over the Internet, primarily through space purchased from Internet-based marketers and search engines. During 2010, we spent approximately 82% of our advertising budget on direct response television and radio commercials and approximately 18% on Internet advertising. It is possible that our advertising will not produce the results we expect or that our advertising costs will increase significantly. It also is possible that the number of persons watching and listening to programs that carry our commercials could decline or that direct response advertising could fall into disfavor among consumers. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We face intense competition from other providers of Internet security software and services. This competition could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. If we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a decrease in demand for our products and services. To compete successfully, we must devote substantial resources to our research and development efforts to develop new products and services and to improve our existing products and services. If we are not able to devote the required resources to research and development, and there is no assurance that we will be able to do so, our competitive position could be adversely affected. 13 Our competitors include WebRoot Software, Kaspersky Labs, iYogi and Support.com. Our larger competitors, including TrendMicro, McAfee, Symantec and Computer Associates, have far greater brand name recognition and far greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do and, consequently, have the ability to influence potential customers to purchase their products rather than ours. Our existing and future and competitors could introduce superior products and services at lower prices than our products and services. Some competitors also could gain market share by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with other competitors. Because new electronic commerce distribution methods have removed many of the barriers historically faced by start-up and early stage companies in the software industry, we may face additional sources of competition in the future which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. If we are unable to develop and maintain new and enhanced security and identity protection products and services to meet emerging industry standards, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success depends upon our ability to improve our current products and services and to develop new products and services that keep pace with the rapid technological developments, continually-evolving industry trends and standards, and ongoing changes in customer requirements in our markets. Failure to keep pace with any changes that are important to our customers could cause us to lose customers and could have a negative impact on our business and financial condition. Our ability to adapt to changes can be hampered by product development delays. As we have in the past, we may experience delays in product development. Complex products like ours may contain undetected errors or other problems, especially when first released, which could adversely impact market acceptance. We also may experience delays or unforeseen costs associated with integrating products we acquire or license with products we develop because we may not be sufficiently familiar with products that we did not develop. We may choose not to deliver a partially-developed product, thereby increasing our development costs without a corresponding benefit. These delays could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Although we test our products prior to release, they may nevertheless contain errors, failures, bugs and other problems which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Because we offer very complex products, undetected errors, failures, bugs and other problems may occur, especially when new products are introduced or when new versions are released. In the past, we have discovered errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after their introduction. In addition, our customers’ computing environments often are characterized by non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. Errors, failures, bugs or other problems in our products could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others, and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our products may falsely detect viruses or computer threats that do not actually exist. These “false alarms,” although not unusual in the security industry, likely would impair customers’ and potential customers’ perceived reliability of our products and therefore could negatively affect customers’ opinions of our products and services. Our anti-spam and anti-spyware may falsely identify emails, programs or web sites as unwanted “spam,” “potentially unwanted programs” or “unsafe.” They also may fail to properly identify unwanted emails, programs or unsafe web sites, particularly because spam emails, spyware or malware are often designed to circumvent anti-spam or spyware products and incorrectly to identify legitimate web sites as unsafe. Persons whose emails or programs are incorrectly blocked by our products, or whose web sites are incorrectly identified as unsafe, may file legal actions against us. In addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs may discourage potential customers from using or continuing to use our products and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. 14 If we fail to upgrade or modify our information technology system effectively, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to new or upgraded information technology systems and maintaining existing systems, including the loss of data and decreases in productivity as personnel become familiar with new, upgraded or modified systems. Our management information systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and as our business requirements change, which could prolong the difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems and respond to changes in our business requirements, our business could be harmed and we may not be able to satisfy timely our Securities and Exchange Commission reporting requirements, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Increased customer demands on our technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and adversely affect our business and financial condition. A large portion of our revenue is derived from technical support services. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We also may be unable to modify the manner in which our support services are provided to compete with support services offered by our competitors. We have outsourced a portion of our worldwide consumer support functions to third-party service providers, some of which are located outside the U.S. If these service providers experience financial difficulties, service disruptions, or do not maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy our requirements and our customers’ expectations, the level of support services provided to our customers could decline materially, which could materially harm our relationships with customers. Our ability to recruit and retain qualified officers and directors could be adversely affected if we experience difficulty in maintaining directors' and officers' liability insurance. We may be unable to maintain insurance, on affordable terms, for potential claims against our officers and directors. If we are unable to adequately insure our officers and directors, we may not be able to retain or recruit qualified officers and directors to manage our business, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. Loss of any of our key management personnel, particularly our CEO, could negatively impact our business and financial condition. Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain our key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance, and other critical personnel. Most of our officers and other key personnel are at-will employees, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain them. Competition for persons with the specific skills that we require is significant, and we believe that we must offer competitive compensation, including cash and equity-based compensation. The volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. In addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals for future increases in the number of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plans. Accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of employee stock options and other forms of equity-based compensation as compensation expense. As a result, we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to execute our business strategy will depend on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our management team. We depend heavily on the services of Gary Guseinov, our Chief Executive Officer, Igor Barash, our Chief Operating Officer, and Kevin Harris, our Chief Financial Officer. We believe that Mr. Guseinov would be particularly difficult to replace. 15 If we lose key executives and management personnel, we may be forced to expend significant time and expense in the pursuit of replacements. In addition, there is no assurance that we would be able to find satisfactory replacements on terms that are not unduly expensive or burdensome to the Company, or at all. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on any of our key officers or employees. To date, our business has been developed assuming that laws and regulations that apply to Internet communications and e-commerce will remain minimal. Changes in government regulation and industry standards may adversely affect our business and operating results. We have developed our business assuming that the regulation of Internet communications, e-commerce and advertising will remain minimal. At this time, complying with applicable laws and regulations is not unduly burdensome. However, it is possible that, in the future, laws and regulations may be enacted to address matters such as user privacy, spyware, pricing, intellectual property ownership and infringement, taxation, and quality of products and services. Additional legislation could hinder growth in the use of the Internet generally and decrease the acceptance of the Internet as a communications, commercial and advertising medium. Changes in current laws and regulations or the addition of new laws and regulations could affect the costs of communicating on the Internet and adversely affect the demand for our products or otherwise harm our business and financial condition. A portion of our business is the development and distribution of software. If we do not protect our proprietary technology and prevent third parties from using it without authorization, our business could be harmed materially. Most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary. We attempt to protect our proprietary rights through the use of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. However, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary technology may not deter its misuse, theft or misappropriation. Competitors may independently develop technologies or products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or that improperly incorporate our proprietary technology into their products. Competitors may hire our former employees who may misappropriate our proprietary technology. Our license agreements are not signed by our customers and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the U.S., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. The unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. In addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, alone or through our alliances with the Business Software Alliance (“BSA”), or the Software & Information Industry Association (“SIIA”), could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Changing legal interpretations of liability for unauthorized use of our software or more indifference by corporate, government or institutional users to refraining from intellectual property piracy or other infringements of intellectual property could also harm our business. The security technology industry increasingly has been subject to patent and other intellectual property rights litigation, particularly from so-called “special purpose entities” that seek to profit by acquiring intellectual property rights and then asserting claims against others. We expect this trend to continue and, in the future, we may be required to defend against these kinds of claims. The litigation process is subject to inherent uncertainties, and we may not prevail in litigation regardless of the merits of our position. In addition to the expense and distraction associated with litigation, adverse determinations could cause us to lose our proprietary rights, prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, require us to obtain licenses to patents or other intellectual property rights that our products are alleged to infringe (licenses may not be available on reasonable commercial terms or at all), and subject us to substantial liabilities. If we acquire technology from third parties to include in our products, our exposure to infringement actions may increase because we must rely upon the third parties to verify the origin and ownership of the technology. Similarly, we face exposure to infringement actions if we hire software engineers who were previously employed by competitors and those employees inadvertently or deliberately incorporate proprietary technology of our competitors into our products despite efforts by our competitors and us to prevent such infringement. 16 Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. We believe that, as the number of products in the software industry increases and the functionality of these products further overlap, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims, which could include patent, copyright and trademark infringement claims. In addition, former employers of our former, current or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us the confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. Any such claim, with or without merit, could: be time consuming to defend; divert management’s attention from our business; require us to stop selling, delay providing, or redesign our products; and require us to pay damages or purchase licenses, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Pending or future litigation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operation, financial condition and liquidity. In addition to potential intellectual property litigation, in the future we may be subject to other litigation including purported class actions, purported stockholder derivative actions, and actions brought by current or former employees. Where we can make a reasonable estimate of the liability relating to pending litigation and determine that an adverse liability resulting from such litigation is probable, we will record a related liability. As additional information becomes available, we will assess the potential liability and revise estimates as appropriate. However, because of the inherent uncertainties relating to litigation, the amount of our estimates could be wrong. The expense of defending future litigation may be costly and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in future litigation could result in our liability to pay damages or subject us to other constraints that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities Our stock generally is thinly traded and it may not be possible to sell shares of our common stock in a timely manner. Our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Global Market on June 9, 2010, and generally is thinly traded. We believe that the generally low trading volume is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence trading volume. We believe that, even if we were to come to their attention, most analysts, brokers and institutional investors probably would not purchase or recommend the purchase of our stock until we become a larger company with a substantial operating history. As a result, although our common stock is publicly traded, there may be periods of a number of days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or nonexistent and it may not be possible to sell shares of our common stock in a timely manner. In addition, future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that substantial sales could occur, could put downward selling pressure on our stock price and therefore could adversely affect the stock price. This downward pressure may make it impossible for an investor to sell stock in a timely manner or at a reasonable price, if at all. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and is likely to be volatile in the future, and you could lose the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant volatility in the past and is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. As a result, you could lose the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: · Announcements by us of operating results or revenue or earnings forecasts that fail to meet or be consistent with earlier forecasts or the expectations of our investors; · Announcements by our competitors that fail to meet or be consistent with their earlier forecasts or the expectations of their investors and securities analysts; · Rumors, public announcements, or media information regarding our competitors’ operations, management, organization, or financial condition; or · Announcements by us of changes in our forecasts of revenue or earnings. 17 Our executive officers and directors own or control approximately 26% of our issued and outstanding common stock, which may limit the ability of our non-management stockholders, whether acting alone or together, to influence our management. In addition, this concentration of ownership could discourage or prevent a potential takeover that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for our common stock. Approximately 26% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock is owned and controlled by our executive officers and directors. Mr. Guseinov, our Chief Executive Officer, owns 22% of our issued and outstanding common stock. The concentrated control may adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the insiders may be able to control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of acquisitions, mergers and other business transactions. Non-management stockholders may have little or no influence on management and the conduct of the Company’s business. The concentrated control also may make it difficult for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock in the event of a merger or other change in control of the Company. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, and we may never pay dividends. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and develop our business and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including but not limited to our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements to which we may be a party at the time. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited by Delaware law. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation – which appreciation may never occur – as the only way to realize a return on their investments. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Limitations on our directors’ liability and our indemnification of our directors may discourage stockholders from filing legal actions against our directors. Our certificate of incorporation provides, in substance, that our directors are not personally liable to the Company or our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for: (i) any breach of the director’s duty of loyalty to the Company or its stockholders; (ii) acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; (iii) improper payment of dividends or unlawful stock purchases or redemptions; and (iv) any transaction from which the director derives an improper personal benefit. These provisions may discourage stockholders from filing legal actions against our directors for breaches of fiduciary duty and may reduce the likelihood of derivative actions being filed by stockholders on behalf of the Company against our directors. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and senior officers. Our charter documents and Delaware law may impede or discourage a takeover, which could lower our stock price. Under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock and could discourage a change of control of the company or changes in management. Delaware law and other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also could delay or make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us or changes in our board of directors and management more difficult. For example, any stockholder wishing to make a stockholder proposal (including director nominations) at our 2011 annual meeting must meet the qualifications and follow the procedures specified under both the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 18 