Item 1A. Risk Factors Ownership of the common stock of the Company involves certain risks. Holders of the Company’s securities and prospective investors should consider carefully the following risks and other information in this document, including our pro forma and historical financial statements and related notes, in evaluating an investment in the Company’s common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, perhaps significantly. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Changes in the ESAs with, or lack of support by, NCM LLC’s founding members could adversely affect our revenue, growth and profitability The ESAs with NCM LLC’s founding members are critical to our business. The three ESAs each have an initial term of 30 years beginning February 13, 2007 and provide us with a five-year right of first refusal, which begins one year prior to the end of the term of the ESA. The term of the ESAs as they relate to CineMeetings and Fathom, is approximately five years from the IPO with provisions for automatic renewal of an additional five years, if certain financial performance conditions are met. NCM LLC’s founding members’ theatres represent approximately 83% of the screens and approximately 87% of the attendance in our network as of January 1, 2009. If any one of the ESAs were terminated, not renewed at its expiration or found to be unenforceable, it would have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial condition. The ESAs require the cooperation, investment and support of the founding members, the absence of which could adversely affect us. Pursuant to the ESAs, NCM LLC’s founding members must make investments to replace digital network equipment within their theatres and equip newly constructed theatres with digital network 23 Table of Contents equipment. If the founding members do not have adequate financial resources or operational strength, and if they do not replace equipment or equip new theatres to maintain the level of operating functionality that we have today, or if such equipment becomes obsolete, we may have to make additional capital expenditures or our advertising, CineMeetings and Fathom events revenue and operating margins may decline. If the founding members reject advertising or choose not to participate in certain CineMeetings or Fathom events under the terms of the ESAs because they believe it would adversely affect their film attendance levels or the reputation of their company, our revenue from these businesses would be reduced. If the non-competition provisions of the ESAs are deemed unenforceable, NCM LLC’s founding members could compete against us and our business could be adversely affected With certain limited exceptions, each of the ESAs prohibits the applicable founding member from engaging in any of the business activities that we provide in the founding member’s theatres under the ESA, and from owning interests in other entities that compete with us. These provisions are intended to prevent the founding members from harming our business by providing cinema advertising services directly to their theatres or by entering into agreements with third-party cinema advertising providers. However, under state and federal law, a court may determine that a non-competition covenant is unenforceable, in whole or in part, for reasons including, but not limited to, the court’s determination that the covenant: • is not necessary to protect a legitimate business interest of the party seeking enforcement; • unreasonably restrains the party against whom enforcement is sought; or • is contrary to the public interest. Enforceability of a non-competition covenant is determined by a court based on all of the facts and circumstances of the specific case at the time enforcement is sought. For this reason, it is not possible for us to predict whether, or to what extent, a court would enforce the non-competition provisions contained in the ESAs. If a court were to determine that the non-competition provisions are unenforceable, the founding members could compete directly against us or enter into an agreement with another cinema advertising provider that competes against us. Any inability to enforce the non-competition provisions, in whole or in part could cause our revenue to decline. If one of NCM LLC’s founding members declares bankruptcy, the ESA with that founding member may be rejected, renegotiated or deemed unenforceable or our network could be adversely affected by the disposition of theatres Each of NCM LLC’s founding members currently has a significant amount of indebtedness, which is below investment grade. In 2000 and 2001, several major motion picture exhibition companies filed for bankruptcy. For example, each of United Artists, Edwards Theatres, Regal Cinemas, General Cinemas and Loews Cineplex filed for bankruptcy during 2000 or 2001. The industry-wide construction of larger, more expensive megaplexes featuring stadium seating in the late 1990s that rendered existing, smaller, sloped-floor theatres under long-term leases obsolete and unprofitable, were significant contributing factors to these bankruptcies. If a bankruptcy case were commenced by or against a founding member, it is possible that all or part of the ESA with that founding member could be rejected by a trustee in the bankruptcy case pursuant to Section 365 or Section 1123 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, or by the founding member, and thus not be enforceable. Alternatively, the founding member could seek to renegotiate the ESA in a manner less favorable to us than the existing agreement. In addition, the founding member could seek to sell or otherwise dispose of theatres, which might result in the removal of those theatres from our network if the acquirer did not agree to continue to allow us to sell advertising in the acquired theaters, which would likely result in the surrender of LLC units from the founding member. Because we sell advertising based on the number of theatre patrons that will view the advertisement, a reduction in the number of theatres in our network could reduce our advertising revenue. 24 Table of Contents The effects of the recent and ongoing global economic crisis may adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition As widely reported, financial markets in the U.S., Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including declining consumer confidence, concerns about inflation or deflation, the threat of a continuing recession, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy and extreme volatility in the credit and equity markets, may lead our customers to cease doing business with us or to reduce or delay that business or their payments to us, and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by these actions. These challenging economic conditions also may result in: • increased competition for fewer advertising, business meeting and entertainment programming dollars; • pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross margin; • difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited visibility into the spending plans of current or prospective customers; or • customer financial difficulty and increased risk of doubtful accounts receivable. Additionally, we use interest rate swaps to reduce our exposure to various interest rate risks, which qualify for hedge accounting for financial reporting purposes. Volatile fluctuations in market conditions could cause these instruments to become ineffective for hedge accounting purposes, which could require any gains or losses associated with these instruments to be reported in our earnings each period. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase the volatility of our stock price. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries. The markets for advertising, meeting management and event content are competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully The market for advertising is very competitive. Cinema advertising is a small component of the overall U.S. advertising market and thus we must compete with established, larger and better known national and local media platforms and newly emerging media platforms such as the Internet. We compete for advertising directly with all media platforms, including radio and television broadcasting, cable and satellite television services, various local print media, billboards and Internet portals and search engines. We also compete directly with other cinema advertising companies. We expect these competitors to devote significant effort to maintaining and growing their respective positions in the cinema advertising segment. We also expect existing competitors and new entrants to the cinema advertising business to constantly revise and improve their business models in light of challenges from us or competing media platforms. If we cannot respond effectively to advances by our competitors, our business may be adversely affected. Our CineMeetings business facilitates live and pre-recorded events in theatre auditoriums. These events are typically scheduled from Monday through Thursday during off-peak hours while theatre attendance for movies is traditionally low. This business competes for customers with a number of venues including hotels, conference facilities, restaurants, arenas and other convention properties, as well as virtual meetings hosted on-line or over private teleconferencing networks. Accordingly, our ability to increase sales in our CineMeetings business is contingent on our ability to attract new customers and compete effectively against other well-established and well-capitalized venues. Our Fathom business focuses on the distribution of entertainment programming products. It includes live and pre-recorded concerts and music events, concert and DVD product releases, theatrical premieres, Broadway plays, as well as live sports and other special events. This business competes for music, sports and other entertainment programming with other national networks, some of which offer greater geographic reach and larger audiences. Accordingly, our ability to source a consistent flow of programming is contingent on our ability to develop and sustain relationships with content owners. 25 Table of Contents Because we rely heavily on NCM LLC’s founding members’ ability to attract customers, any reduction in attendance at founding member theatres could decrease our revenue Our business is affected by the success of NCM LLC’s founding members, who operate in a highly competitive industry. From the late 1990s through 2002, the number of movie screens and the level of theatre attendance in the U.S. increased substantially, as movie theatres began to offer new amenities such as stadium seating, improved projection quality and superior sound systems. While box office attendance declined in 2008 compared to 2007, it increased in 2007 compared to 2006 and in 2006 as compared to 2005 and declined in each of 2003, 2004 and 2005. If theatre attendance declines in the future, one or more of NCM LLC’s founding members may face financial difficulties and could be forced to sell or close theatres or reduce the number of screens it builds or upgrades. Attendance may also decline if the founding members fail to maintain their theatres and provide amenities that consumers prefer, or if they cannot compete successfully on pricing. NCM LLC’s founding members also may not successfully compete for licenses to exhibit quality films and are not assured a consistent supply of motion pictures since they do not have long-term arrangements with major film distributors. Any of these circumstances could reduce our revenue because our national advertising revenue, and local advertising to a lesser extent, depends on the number of theatre patrons who view our advertising and pre-feature show. Significant declines in theatre attendance could reduce the attractiveness of cinema advertising The value of our advertising business could be adversely affected by a long-term multi-year decline in theatre attendance or even the perception by media buyers that our network attendance and geographic coverage were expected to decline significantly over the next several years. Factors that could reduce attendance at our network theatres include the following: • the shortening of the “release window” between the release of major motion pictures in the theatres and release to alternative methods for delivering movies to consumers, such as DVD or HD DVD, cable television, downloads via the Internet, video discs and cassettes, video on demand, satellite and pay-per-view services; • any reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income in general that reduces the demand for motion pictures or adversely affects the motion picture production industry; and • the success of first-run motion pictures, which depends upon the production and marketing efforts of the major studios and the attractiveness of the movies to patrons. The loss of any major content partner or advertising customer could significantly reduce our revenue We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our contracts with our content partners, cell phone PSA and NCM LLC’s founding members’ agreements to purchase on-screen advertising for their beverage concessionaires. NCM LLC’s or its predecessor company’s relationships with certain content partners date back as far as December 2002. None of these companies individually accounted for over 10% of our total revenue during the year ended January 1, 2009. However, the agreements with the content partners, cell phone PSA and beverage advertising with the founding members in aggregate accounted for approximately 31.0% of our total revenue during the year ended January 1, 2009. Because we derive a significant percentage of our total revenue from a relatively small number of large companies, the loss of any one or more of them as a customer could decrease our revenue and adversely affect our current and future operating results. We generate a high percentage of our revenue and OIBDA from advertising, and the reduction in spending by or loss of advertisers could have a serious adverse effect on our business We generated approximately 89.4% of our total revenue in the year ended January 1, 2009 from advertising sales. A substantial portion of our advertising inventory is covered by contracts with terms as low as one month. Advertisers will not continue to do business with us if they believe our advertising medium is ineffective or overly expensive. In addition, large advertisers generally have set advertising budgets, most of which are focused 26 Table of Contents on traditional media platforms. Reductions in the size of advertisers’ budgets due to local or national economic trends or other factors could result in lower spending on cinema advertising in general or our advertising business in particular. If we are unable to remain competitive and provide value to our advertisers, they may reduce their advertising purchases or stop placing advertisements with us, which would negatively affect our revenue and ability to generate new business from advertising clients. If we do not maintain our technological advantage, our business could fail to grow and revenue and operating margins could decline Failure to successfully or cost-effectively implement upgrades to our software systems to maintain our technological competitiveness could limit our ability to increase our revenue and more effectively leverage our digital platform. Any failure by us to upgrade our technology to remain current with technological changes, including digital cinema, that may be adopted by other providers of cinema advertising or other advertising platforms could hurt our ability to compete with those companies. Under the terms of the ESAs with NCM LLC’s founding members, the founding members are required to provide technology that is consistent with that in place at the signing of the ESA. We may request that NCM LLC’s founding members upgrade the equipment or software installed in their theatres. We must negotiate with NCM LLC’s founding members as to the terms of such upgrade, including cost sharing terms, if any. If we are not able to come to an agreement on an upgrade request, we may elect to pay for the upgrades requested which could result in our incurring significant capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the failure or delay in implementation of such upgrades or problems with the integration of our systems and software with the digital cinema systems, if such integration is pursued, could slow or prevent the growth of our business. Our business relies heavily on our technology systems, and any failures or disruptions may materially and adversely affect our operations The temporary or permanent loss of our computer equipment and software systems, through sabotage, operating malfunction, software virus, human error, natural disaster, power loss, terrorist attacks, or other catastrophic events, could disrupt our operations and cause a material adverse impact. These problems may arise in both internally developed systems and the systems of third-party service providers. If our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. Technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements. Our business and operations are experiencing rapid growth, and we may be unable to effectively manage or continue our growth We have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which has placed, and could continue to place, significant demands on our management and operational infrastructure. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our services could suffer, which could negatively affect our brand, our relationships with our advertising clients and digital content suppliers and our operating results. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continue to improve our digital content system distribution software and our internal management systems, including our advertising inventory optimization, management and reporting systems. These systems enhancements and improvements will require allocation of financial and management resources. If the improvements are not implemented successfully in a timely manner or at all, our ability to manage our growth will be impaired and we may have to make significant additional expenditures to address these issues. Our preliminary plans for developing additional revenue opportunities may not be implemented, may require substantial expenditures and may not be achieved In addition to our strategy to grow our advertising, CineMeetings and Fathom businesses, we are also considering other potential opportunities for revenue growth, which we describe in “Business—Our Strategy— 27 Table of Contents Expand our Internet/Mobile Platform and—Expand into Other Out-of-Home Networks”. For example, in 2007 we made a $7.0 million investment in 6% preferred stock of IdeaCast Inc. and restructured that investment in 2008. We are currently working on a further restructuring that may or may not result in NCM having a continuing interest in that business. Regardless of the outcome of this restructuring, we may decide to continue to expand our network technology and sales capabilities outside of theatres as our theatre advertising business matures in the future. In addition, the development of our internet initiative is at a very early stage, and may not deliver the benefits we have projected. Because we have a limited operating history as a public company, it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects NCM LLC’s predecessor company, RCM, began operations in February 2002. NCM LLC was formed on March 29, 2005, as a joint venture that combined the operations of subsidiaries of AMC and Regal. Cinemark joined as a founding member on July 15, 2005. Our founding members have made several acquisitions including Century and Loews and we have entered into new network affiliate agreements with Kerasotes, Hollywood and Cobb and may enter into more in the future. As a result, we have a limited operating history from which you can compare corresponding periods and evaluate our business. We may encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by newly formed companies in rapidly evolving businesses. If we are unsuccessful in executing our business strategy, we may be unable to: • increase our revenue and expand our client base; • operate, support, expand, develop and improve our software and other systems; • continue to produce high operating income margins; and • respond to technological changes. Our historical and pro forma financial information may not be representative of our financial results as an independent public company or our future financial performance Certain of our historical financial information included in this document does not reflect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as they would have been achieved during the periods presented as a separate, stand-alone public entity. Certain of our historical financial statements do not necessarily reflect the costs that we would have incurred had we operated as an independent stand-alone public entity. These costs include higher corporate overhead, interest expense and income taxes. Our historical financial information includes the consolidated financial statements of RCM and NCN, the joint predecessor companies of NCM LLC, for periods prior to March 2005 and does not include any information related to Cinemark. Although historical financial information on AMC’s theatre advertising subsidiary, NCN, is presented herein, there is no historical financial information on the combined operations of both NCN and RCM prior to the formation of NCM LLC. Additionally, the historical financial statements of RCM and NCN include payments to their parent companies at different rates than those in effect after the formation of NCM LLC, which rates changed again after completion of the financing transaction and reorganization. Because Cinemark had a pre-existing contract with another cinema advertising provider, NCM LLC began selling advertising for Cinemark’s screens on an exclusive basis beginning on January 1, 2006 (subject to the run-out of certain pre-existing contractual obligations for on-screen advertising through April 1, 2006). In addition, our historical financial information does not include any information related to theatres operated by Loews, which AMC acquired on January 26, 2006, and which became part of our theatre network beginning on June 1, 2008, or Century, which Cinemark acquired on October 5, 2006, and which became a part of our theatre network on an exclusive basis, subject to limited exceptions, on the closing date. The historical results of operations of NCM LLC, RCM and NCN have been significantly impacted by related party transactions that we have entered into, as further discussed in the historical financial statements included elsewhere in this document, 28 Table of Contents and the future operating results of NCM Inc. will also be significantly impacted by related party transactions entered into in connection with our initial public offering. As a result, this information may not be representative of our future financial performance. In preparing the pro forma financial information in this document, we have made adjustments to the historical financial information of NCM LLC and its predecessor companies based upon currently available information and upon assumptions that our management believes are reasonable in order to reflect, on a pro forma basis, the impact of the transactions contemplated by the reorganization, the financing transaction and our initial public offering. Some of these adjustments include, among other items, the terms of the ESAs with NCM LLC’s founding members, adjustments to income tax provisions to account for NCM LLC’s status as a limited liability company and NCM, Inc.’s status as a taxable entity, and NCM, Inc.’s acquisition of common membership units of NCM LLC. However, the pro forma financial information does not include adjustments for the addition of the Cinemark, AMC Loews or Century screens. These and other estimates and assumptions used in the calculation of the pro forma financial information in this document may be materially different from our actual experience as a separate, independent company. The pro forma financial information included elsewhere in this document does not purport to represent what our results of operations would actually have been had we operated as a separate, independent company during the periods presented, nor do the pro forma data give effect to any events other than those discussed in the unaudited pro forma financial information and related notes. We depend upon our senior management and our business may be adversely affected if we cannot retain them Our success depends upon the retention of our experienced senior management with specialized industry and technical knowledge and/or industry relationships. We might not be able to find qualified replacements for our senior management if their services were no longer available to us; accordingly, the loss of critical members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively pursue our business strategy and our relationships with advertisers and content partners. We do not have key-man life insurance covering any of our employees. Our technology business may infringe on rights owned by others, which may interfere with our ability to provide services, and our new web site may expose us to increased liability or expense under intellectual property, privacy or other laws We may discover that the technology we use infringes patent, copyright, or other intellectual property rights owned by others. In addition, we cannot assure you that our competitors will not claim rights in patents, copyrights, or other intellectual property that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to provide our services either in the U.S. or in international markets. Further, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Our new NCM.com web site, which we launched in late 2008, is an entertainment and media portal containing content regarding movies, television and other media, much of which is obtained from third party content providers. The web site includes features enabling users to access and download content on the web site, add their own content to the web site, and modify certain content on the web site. In order to take advantage of some of these features, users will be required to establish an account on the web site and, as a result, we will collect and maintain personal information about those users. Each of these features could result in legal liability. For example, use of third-party content could expose us to claims of infringement on the intellectual property rights of others; and the failure, or perceived failure, to comply with federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws or regulations or our posted privacy policies could result in actions against us by governmental entities or others. Any such claim or action could result in significant adverse effects on our business and financial results because of, for example, increased costs (such as legal defense, damages owing to third parties, and increased licensing fees to acquire third-party content) and reduction or elimination of content or features from our web site. In addition, a number 29 Table of Contents of other U.S. federal laws, including those referenced below, may impact our business as a result of our new web site. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, liability for posting, or linking to third-party web sites that include, materials that infringe copyrights or other rights. Portions of the Communications Decency Act are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third-party content. The Child Online Protection Act and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. The costs of compliance with these and other regulations may be significant and may increase in the future as a result of changes in the regulations or the interpretation of them. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws and regulations may subject us to additional liabilities. Our revenue and Adjusted OIBDA fluctuate from quarter to quarter and may be unpredictable, which could increase the volatility of our stock price Typically, our revenue and Adjusted OIBDA are lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year as advertising clients scale back their advertising budgets following the year-end holiday season, and our revenue is highest during the summer and the holiday season when theatre attendance is normally highest. However, a weak advertising market, the poor performance of films released in a given quarter or a disruption in the release schedule of films could affect results for the entire fiscal year and significantly affect quarter-to-quarter results. Because our results vary widely from quarter to quarter and may be unpredictable, our financial results for one quarter cannot necessarily be compared to another quarter and may not be indicative of our financial performance in subsequent quarters. These variations in our financial results could contribute to volatility in our stock price. The ESAs allow the founding members to engage in activities that might compete with certain elements of our business, which could reduce our revenue and growth potential The ESAs contain certain limited exceptions to our exclusive right to use the founding members’ theatres for our advertising business. The founding members have the right to enter into strategic cross-marketing relationships with third-party, unaffiliated businesses for the purpose of generating increased attendance or revenue (other than revenue from the sale of advertising) and, subject to certain limits, can use one minute on the LEN and certain types of lobby promotions, at no cost, for the purpose of promoting the products or services of those businesses while at the same time promoting the theatre circuit or the movie-going experience. Subject to certain limits, they can also purchase an additional minute of advertising on the LEN for these cross-marketing promotions. The use of LEN or lobby promotions by NCM LLC’s founding members for these advertisements and programs could result in the founding members creating relationships with advertisers that could adversely affect our current LEN and lobby promotions advertising revenue and profitability as well as the potential we have to grow that advertising revenue in the future. The LEN and lobby promotions represented 8.1% of our total advertising revenue for the year ended January 1, 2009. The founding members will not have the right to use their movie screens (including the FirstLook program or otherwise) for promoting these cross-marketing relationships, and thus we will have the exclusive rights to advertise on the movie screens, except for limited advertising related to theatre operations, and to package such on-screen advertising with the LEN advertising and lobby promotions. The founding members also have the right to install a second network of video monitors in the theatre lobbies in excess of those required to be installed by the founding members for the LEN. This additional lobby video network, which we refer to as the founders’ lobby network, is to be used by the founding members to promote products or services related to operating the theatres, such as concessions and loyalty programs. The presence of the founders’ lobby network within the lobby areas could reduce the effectiveness of our LEN, thereby reducing our current LEN advertising revenue and profitability and adversely affecting future revenue potential associated with that marketing platform. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure We are a holding company with no operations of our own, and we will depend on distributions and payments under the management services agreement from NCM LLC to meet our ongoing obligations and to pay cash dividends on our common stock We are a holding company with no operations of our own and have no independent ability to generate revenue. Consequently, our ability to obtain operating funds depends upon distributions from NCM LLC. The distribution of cash flows and other transfers of funds by NCM LLC to us are subject to statutory and contractual restrictions based upon NCM LLC’s financial performance, including NCM LLC’s compliance with the covenants in its senior secured credit facility and the NCM LLC operating agreement. The NCM LLC senior secured credit facility limits NCM LLC’s ability to distribute cash to its members, including us, based upon certain leverage tests, with exceptions for, among other things, payment of our income taxes and a management fee to NCM Inc. pursuant to the terms of the management services agreement. We will be unable to pay dividends to our stockholders or pay other expenses outside the ordinary course of business if NCM LLC fails to comply with these covenants and is unable to distribute cash to us. Pursuant to the management services agreement between us and NCM LLC, NCM LLC makes payments to us to fund our day-to-day operating expenses, such as payroll. However, if NCM LLC cannot make the payments pursuant to the management services agreement, we may be unable to cover these expenses. As a member of NCM LLC, we incur income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of NCM LLC. We have structured the NCM LLC senior secured credit facility to allow NCM LLC to distribute cash to its members (including us and the founding members) in amounts sufficient to cover their tax liabilities and management fees, if any. To the extent we need funds to pay such taxes or for any other purpose, and NCM LLC is unable to provide such funds because of limitations in the NCM LLC senior secured credit facility or other restrictions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. NCM LLC’s substantial debt obligations could impair our financial condition or prevent us from achieving our business goals NCM LLC is party to a $725.0 million term loan that is part of a senior secured credit facility. The agreements governing NCM LLC’s debt obligations contain restrictive covenants that limit NCM LLC’s ability to take specified actions and prescribe minimum financial maintenance requirements that NCM LLC must meet. Because NCM LLC is our only operating subsidiary, complying with these restrictions may prevent NCM LLC from taking actions that we believe would help us to grow our business. For example, NCM LLC may be unable to make acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures as a result of such covenants. Moreover, if NCM LLC violates those restrictive covenants or fails to meet the minimum financial requirements, it would be in default, which could, in turn, result in defaults under other obligations of NCM LLC or us. Any such defaults could materially impair our financial condition and liquidity. The senior secured credit facility also includes an $80 million revolving credit facility. As of January 1, 2009, the amount outstanding under the revolving credit facility was $74.0 million. The amount outstanding under the revolving credit facility has been fully drawn by us on a voluntary basis as a result of issues affecting the credit markets in general and the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy (see additional discussion below) in particular. We do not expect to repay any of the amount for the foreseeable future and will accumulate cash balances. NCM LLC’s cash and cash equivalents was $34.1 million at January 1, 2009, while NCM Inc.’s consolidated cash and cash equivalents was $69.2 at January 1, 2009. If NCM LLC is unable to meet its debt service obligations, it or we could be forced to restructure or refinance the obligations, seek additional equity financing or sell assets. We may be unable to restructure or 31 Table of Contents refinance these obligations, obtain additional equity financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, NCM LLC’s indebtedness could have other negative consequences for us, including without limitation: • limiting NCM LLC’s ability to obtain financing in the future; • requiring much of NCM LLC’s cash flow to be dedicated to interest obligations and making it unavailable for other purposes; • limiting NCM LLC’s liquidity and operational flexibility in changing economic, business and competitive conditions which could require NCM LLC to consider deferring planned capital expenditures, reducing discretionary spending, selling assets, restructuring existing debt or deferring acquisitions or other strategic opportunities; and • making NCM LLC more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in general economic conditions. The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., one of the lenders under NCM LLC’s revolving credit facility, may impair NCM LLC’s ability to borrow under the credit facility and reduce our liquidity On September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., or Lehman, filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. On October 3, 2008, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., or LCPI, a subsidiary of Lehman, also filed for Chapter 11 protection. NCM LLC has an aggregate revolving credit facility commitment of $80.0 million with a consortium of banks, including $20.0 million with LCPI. At January 1, 2009, $6.0 million of the revolving credit facility was undrawn, of which the entire unfunded amount was the commitment of LCPI. (This is a result of LCPI failing to fund certain of our loan draw requests in September and October of 2008.). NCM LLC does not anticipate that LCPI will fulfill its funding commitment, and although our cash flows have not been adversely impacted to date by this failure of LCPI to fund, they may be in the future. Until the LCPI issues are resolved, NCM LLC is not anticipating repaying any of its revolver borrowings as it would effectively result in a permanent reduction of its revolving credit facility to the extent of the LCPI commitments. Accordingly, NCM LLC is exploring options to replace Lehman with another bank within the revolving credit facility and possibly the term loan facility, but we may not be able to reach agreement with another bank on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, while the bankruptcy court has authorized LCPI to resign as the administrative agent under the revolving credit facility, to our knowledge they have not yet done so. NCM LLC’s founding members or their affiliates may have interests that differ from those of our public stockholders and they may be able to influence our affairs So long as a founding member beneficially owns at least 5% of NCM LLC’s issued and outstanding common membership units, approval of at least 90% of the directors then in office (provided that if the board has less than ten directors, then the approval of at least 80% of the directors then in office) will be required before we may take any of the following actions or we, in our capacity as manager of NCM LLC, may authorize NCM LLC to take any of the following actions: • assign, transfer, sell or pledge all or a portion of the membership units of NCM LLC beneficially owned by NCM Inc.; • acquire, dispose, lease or license assets with an aggregate value exceeding 20% of the fair market value of the business of NCM LLC operating as a going concern; • merge, reorganize, recapitalize, reclassify, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or enter into a similar transaction; • incur any funded indebtedness or repay, before due, any funded indebtedness with a fixed term in an aggregate amount in excess of $15 million per year; 32 Table of Contents • issue, grant or sell shares of NCM Inc. common stock, preferred stock or rights with respect to common or preferred stock, or NCM LLC membership units or rights with respect to membership units, except under specified circumstances; • amend, modify, restate or repeal any provision of NCM Inc.’s certificate of incorporation or bylaws or the NCM LLC operating agreement; • enter into, modify or terminate certain material contracts not in the ordinary course of business as defined under applicable securities laws; • except as specifically set forth in the NCM LLC operating agreement, declare, set aside or pay any redemption of, or dividends with respect to membership interests; • amend any material terms or provisions (as defined in the Nasdaq rules) of NCM Inc.’s equity incentive plan or enter into any new equity incentive compensation plan; • make any change in the current business purpose of NCM Inc. to serve solely as the manager of NCM LLC or any change in the current business purpose of NCM LLC to provide the services as set forth in the ESAs; and • approve any actions relating to NCM LLC that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse tax effect on the founding members. Pursuant to a director designation agreement, so long as a founding member owns at least 5% of NCM LLC’s issued and outstanding common membership units, such founding member will have the right to designate a total of two nominees to our ten-member board of directors who will be voted upon by our stockholders. If, at any time, any founding member owns less than 5% of NCM LLC’s then issued and outstanding common membership units, then such founding member shall cease to have any rights of designation. If any director designee to our board designated by NCM LLC’s founding members is not appointed to our board, nominated by us or elected by our stockholders, as applicable, then each of the founding members (so long as such founding member continues to own 5% of NCM LLC’s issued and outstanding common membership units) will be entitled to approve specified actions of NCM LLC. For purposes of calculating the 5% ownership threshold for the supermajority director approval rights and director designation agreement provisions discussed above, shares of our common stock held by a founding member and received upon redemption of NCM LLC common membership units will be counted toward the threshold. Common membership units issued to NCM Inc. in connection with the redemption of common membership units by a founding member will be excluded, so long as such founding member continues to hold the common stock acquired through such redemption or such founding member has disposed of such shares of common stock to another founding member. Shares of our common stock otherwise acquired by the founding members will also be excluded, unless such shares of common stock were transferred by one founding member to another and were originally received by the transferring founding member upon redemption of NCM LLC common membership units. Under these circumstances, our corporate governance documents will allow NCM LLC’s founding members and their affiliates to exercise a greater degree of influence in the operation of our business and that of NCM LLC and the management of our affairs and those of NCM LLC than is typically available to stockholders of a publicly-traded company. Even if NCM LLC’s founding members or their affiliates own a minority economic interest (but not less than 5%) in NCM LLC, they may be able to continue exerting such degree of influence over us and NCM LLC. Different interests among NCM LLC’s founding members or between NCM LLC’s founding members and us could prevent us from achieving our business goals For the foreseeable future, we expect that our board of directors will include directors and executive officers of NCM LLC’s founding members and other directors who may have commercial or other relationships with 33 Table of Contents NCM LLC’s founding members. NCM LLC’s founding members compete with each other in the operation of their respective businesses and could have individual business interests that may conflict with those of the other founding members. Their differing interests could make it difficult for us to pursue strategic initiatives that require consensus among NCM LLC’s founding members. In addition, the structural relationship we have with NCM LLC’s founding members could create conflicts of interest among the founding members, or between the founding members and us, in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. There is not any formal dispute resolution procedure in place to resolve conflicts between us and a founding member or between founding members. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts between us and a founding member and, even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were negotiating with an unaffiliated party. The corporate opportunity provisions in our certificate of incorporation could enable the founding members to benefit from corporate opportunities that might otherwise be available to us Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to both NCM LLC’s founding members and us. It provides that if a corporate opportunity is offered to us, NCM LLC or one or more of the officers, directors or stockholders (both direct and indirect) of NCM Inc. or a member of NCM LLC that relates to the provision of services to motion picture theatres, use of theatres for any purpose, sale of advertising and promotional services in and around theatres and any other business related to the motion picture theatre business (except services as provided in the ESAs as from time to time amended and except as may be offered to one of our officers in his capacity as an officer), no such person shall be liable to us or any of our stockholders (or any affiliate thereof) for breach of any fiduciary or other duty by reason of the fact that such person pursues or acquires such business opportunity, directs such business opportunity to another person or fails to present such business opportunity, or information regarding such business opportunity, to us. This provision applies even if the business opportunity is one that we might reasonably be deemed to have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and the NCM LLC operating agreement expressly provide that NCM LLC’s founding members may have other business interests and may engage in any other businesses not specifically prohibited by the terms of the certificate of incorporation, including the exclusivity provisions of the ESAs. The parent companies of the founding members are not bound by the ESAs and therefore could develop new media platforms that could compete for advertising dollars with our services. Further, we may also compete with the founding members or their affiliates in the area of employee recruiting and retention. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by the founding members to themselves or their other affiliates or we lose key personnel to them. The agreements between us and NCM LLC’s founding members were made in the context of an affiliated relationship and may contain different terms than comparable agreements with unaffiliated third parties The ESAs and the other contractual agreements that we have with NCM LLC’s founding members were negotiated in the context of an affiliated relationship in which representatives of NCM LLC’s founding members and their affiliates comprised our entire board of directors. As a result, the financial provisions and the other terms of these agreements, such as covenants, contractual obligations on our part and on the part of NCM LLC’s founding members, and termination and default provisions may be less favorable to us than terms that we might have obtained in negotiations with unaffiliated third parties in similar circumstances. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover protections that may discourage or prevent strategic transactions, including a takeover of our company, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the NCM LLC operating agreement, provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), could delay or prevent a third party from 34 Table of Contents entering into a strategic transaction with us, even if such a transaction would benefit our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • establish supermajority approval requirements by our directors before our board may take certain actions; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares, making a takeover more difficult and expensive; • establish a classified board of directors; • allow removal of directors only for cause; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and • provide that the founding members will be able to exercise a greater degree of influence over the operations of NCM LLC, which may discourage other nominations to our board of directors, if any director nominee designated by the founding members is not elected by our stockholders. These restrictions could keep us from pursuing relationships with strategic partners and from raising additional capital, which could impede our ability to expand our business and strengthen our competitive position. These restrictions could also limit stockholder value by impeding a sale of us or NCM LLC. Any future issuance of membership units by NCM LLC and subsequent redemption of such units for common stock could dilute the voting power of our existing common stockholders and adversely affect the market value of our common stock The common unit adjustment agreement and the ESAs provide that we will issue common membership units of NCM LLC to account for changes in the number of theatre screens NCM LLC’s founding members operate. Historically, each of the founding members has increased the number of screens it operates. If this trend continues, NCM LLC may issue additional common membership units to the founding members to reflect their increase in net screen count. Each common membership unit may be redeemed in exchange for, at our option, shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis or a cash payment equal to the market price of one share of our common stock. If a significant number of common membership units were issued to NCM LLC’s founding members, the founding members elected to redeem such units, and we elected to issue common stock rather than cash upon redemption, the voting power of our common stockholders could be diluted. Other than the maximum number of authorized shares of common stock in our certificate of incorporation, there is no limit on the number of shares of our common stock that we may issue upon redemption of a founding member’s common membership units in NCM LLC. Our future issuance of preferred stock could dilute the voting power of our common stockholders and adversely affect the market value of our common stock The future issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting rights may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our other classes of voting stock, either by diluting the voting power of our other classes of voting stock if they vote together as a single class, or by giving the holders of any such preferred stock the right to block an action on which they have a separate class vote even if the action were approved by the holders of our other classes of voting stock. The future issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. For example, investors in the 35 Table of Contents common stock may not wish to purchase common stock at a price above the conversion price of a series of convertible preferred stock because the holders of the preferred stock would effectively be entitled to purchase common stock at the lower conversion price causing economic dilution to the holders of common stock. If we or NCM LLC’s founding members are determined to be an investment company, we would become subject to burdensome regulatory requirements and our business activities could be restricted We do not believe that we are an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. As sole manager of NCM LLC, we control NCM LLC, and our interest in NCM LLC is not an “investment security” as that term is used in the Investment Company Act. If we were to stop participating in the management of NCM LLC, our interest in NCM LLC could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. Generally, a company is an “investment company” if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (excluding U.S. government securities and cash items). Our sole material asset is our equity interest in NCM LLC. A determination that such asset was an investment security could result in our being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act. As a result, we would become subject to registration and other burdensome requirements of the Investment Company Act. In addition, the requirements of the Investment Company Act could restrict our business activities, including our ability to issue securities. We and NCM LLC intend to conduct our operations so that we are not deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act. However, if anything were to occur that would cause us to be deemed an investment company, we would become subject to restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act. These restrictions, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operations. We also rely on representations of NCM LLC’s founding members that they are not investment companies under the Investment Company Act. If any founding member were deemed an investment company, the restrictions placed upon that founding member might inhibit its ability to fulfill its obligations under its ESA or restrict NCM LLC’s ability to borrow funds. Our tax receivable agreement with the founding members is expected to reduce the amount of overall cash flow that would otherwise be available to us and will increase our potential exposure to the financial condition of the founding members Our initial public offering and related transactions have the effect of reducing the amounts NCM Inc. would otherwise pay in the future to various tax authorities as a result of an increase in its proportionate share of tax basis in NCM LLC’s tangible and intangible assets. We have agreed in our tax receivable agreement with the founding members to pay to the founding members 90% of the amount by which NCM Inc.’s tax payments to various tax authorities are reduced as a result of the increase in tax basis. Pursuant to the terms of the tax receivable agreement, we made total payments of $14.5 million to the founding members in 2008 with respect to our 2007 taxable year. After paying these reduced amounts to tax authorities, if it is determined as a result of an income tax audit or examination that any amount of NCM Inc.’s claimed tax benefits should not have been available, NCM Inc. may be required to pay additional taxes and possibly penalties and interest to one or more tax authorities. If this were to occur, and if one or more of the founding members was insolvent or bankrupt or otherwise unable to make payment under its indemnification obligation under the tax receivable agreement, then NCM Inc.’s financial condition could be materially impaired. The substantial number of shares that are eligible for sale could cause the market price for our common stock to decline or make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price of our common stock from time to time. Sales of 36 Table of Contents substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales will occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or make future offerings of our equity securities more difficult. If we are unable to sell equity securities at times and prices that we deem appropriate, we may be unable to fund growth. The 42,109,966 shares of common stock outstanding at January 1, 2009 are freely tradable, except for 204,111 shares held by our affiliates. In addition, the founding members may receive up to 57,309,654 shares of common stock, which initially will be unregistered, upon redemption of their outstanding common membership units of NCM LLC. These shares of common stock will constitute “restricted securities” under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Provided the holders comply with the holding periods and other conditions prescribed in Rule 144 under the Securities Act, all but 204,111 of these unregistered shares of common stock cease to be restricted securities and become freely tradable. Additionally, 203,618 shares of non-vested restricted stock are outstanding and 2,025,099 shares of our common stock will be issuable upon exercise of stock options that vest through 2012. As of January 1, 2009, 600,177 stock options have vested and are exercisable. Once the options and restricted stock become vested and/or exercisable, as applicable, to the extent they are not held by one of our affiliates, the shares acquired upon vesting or exercise are freely tradable. Our stock price may be volatile Before our initial public offering in February 2007, there was no public market for our common stock, and an active trading market for our common stock may not continue. The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations over the last several months as investment companies have been forced to sell to pay-off debt. These broad market fluctuations or actions of individual holders of our stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our stock price may fluctuate or decline due to a variety of factors, including: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; • changes in the market valuations of other companies; • announcements relating to actions of other media companies, strategic relationships, acquisitions or industry consolidation; • terrorist acts or wars; and • general economic, market and political conditions not related to our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 37 Table of Contents 