Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. Discussion about important operational risks that our business encounters can be found in Item 1 and in Item 7 of this report, as well as in the discussion below. Risks Related to Our Business We have been in business only since August 2003. Our limited operating history makes evaluation of our business difficult. We were incorporated in the State of California as Network Dynamics in August 2003 and have limited historical financial data upon which to base planned operating expenses or to accurately forecast our future operating results. We have a limited operating history which makes it difficult to evaluate our performance. You must consider our prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties we face as an early stage company with a limited operating history. These risks include uncertainty as to whether we will be able to: · increase revenues from sales of our suite of Internet security products and support services; · successfully protect our Collaborative Internet Security Network from all security attacks; · successfully protect personal computers or networks against all Internet threats; · respond effectively to competitive pressures; · protect our intellectual property rights; · continue to develop and upgrade our technology; and · continue to renew our customers’ subscriptions to current and future products and services. We incurred net losses for our last four fiscal years. We are not certain that our operations will ever be profitable. We incurred a net loss of $5,507,600 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, a net loss of $5,866,123 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, a net loss of $11,251,772 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and a net loss of $13,703,131 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. We can provide no assurance as to when, or if, we will be profitable in the future. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it. Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 require public companies to maintain “disclosure controls and procedures.” Our disclosure controls and procedures are not effective at the reasonable assurance level due to a significant deficiency. Additionally, we have been unable to maintain effective internal controls over our financial reporting in accordance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 due to a material weakness. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Included in this Annual Report are reports on our disclosure controls and procedures and on our internal control over financial reporting. As a result of deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures and in our internal control over financial reporting, we concluded that neither was effective as of December 31, 2009. In order to remedy these deficiencies we must appoint independent directors and engage in specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees. We should also modify our existing accounting systems (such as by recruiting and hiring additional employees to assist with accounting functions, purchasing and installing special software and training employees in the use of it, paying for the costs of continuing education for our employees involved with accounting functions, etc.), which will entail substantial costs and take a significant period of time to complete. We anticipate the costs of implementing these remediation initiatives will be approximately $100,000 to $125,000 per year in increased salaries and $50,000 to $100,000 per year in increased legal and accounting expenses. 10 Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and could result in our financial statements being unreliable or loss of investor confidence in our financial reports. Additionally, failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting could result in government investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities. We sell our products over the Internet, however such activities may not be secure. If a breach of security occurred, our reputation could be damaged and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. A significant barrier to online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our customers authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for the purchase price of our products. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. There can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could have a material adverse affect on our reputation and, therefore, on our business and results of operations. During the past year our business has grown rapidly. If we do not manage this growth carefully, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Since January 1, 2009, our business has grown rapidly. Our sales increased 285% for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. Also, the number of full-time employees and consultants we employ grew from 22 full-time employees and 2 independent contractors as of December 31, 2008 to 69 full-time employees and 50 independent contractors as of December 31, 2009. Growth of our business at this pace places a strain on our management and resources and has required, and may continue to require, the implementation of new operating systems, procedures and controls and the expansion of our facilities. Our failure to manage our growth and expansion could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to implement new systems effectively or within a reasonable period of time could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have made a significant investment in personnel and overhead in anticipation that our growth will continue. If the projections about our growth are mistaken, our operating results could be adversely affected. During the past two years we have experienced significant growth and we believe that our growth will continue for the immediate future. For that reason we have made significant investments in personnel and overhead. If our growth does not continue, our operating expenses may exceed our revenue, significantly affecting our ability to continue operating. Although we may be able to eliminate or reduce some of the expenses through a reduction in workforce or a reduction in costs, some costs such as rent could not be easily reduced. As a result, our operating results could be adversely affected. 11 Our Media and Marketing Services Agreement with GRM could be terminated. The termination of this agreement could adversely affect our operating results. Pursuant to the terms of the Media and Marketing Services Agreement we entered into with GRM, GRM may terminate the agreement if there is a breach or default in performance of any obligation, unless the breach or default is cured within 15 business days following receipt of written notice from the non-breaching party; upon the discontinuance, dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the other party’s business or the insolvency of the other party; or by either party for any reason by giving the other party written notice of the termination at least 30 days prior to the effective date of termination. Additionally, after May 30, 2009, GRM is entitled to terminate the agreement upon 5 days written notice to us in the event that the average media placement costs for any 3 consecutive months during the term are less than $250,000 per month. If we earn significant revenues from our agreement with GRM, but GRM decides to terminate the agreement, our operating results could be adversely affected. We market our products and services through search engines (for example, Google and Yahoo!), e-mail and display advertising, affiliate marketing and direct response television and radio commercials. If we fail to market our products effectively, our sales could decline and our results of operations would be adversely affected. We market our products and related services over the Internet, primarily through space purchased from Internet-based marketers and search engines, and via direct response television and radio commercials. During 2009, we spent approximately 75% of our advertising budget on Internet advertising. We cannot assure you that our advertising will perform as we anticipate or that our advertising costs will not increase significantly. If either of these events were to occur, it would have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. We face intense competition from other providers of Internet security software. If we cannot offer consumers a reason to use our software instead of the software marketed by our competitors, our business and the results of our operations will be adversely affected. We have many competitors in the markets for our products. Our competitors include software companies that offer products that directly compete with our products or that bundle their software products with Internet security software offered by another company. End-user customers may prefer purchasing Internet security software that is manufactured by the same company that provides its other software programs because of greater product breadth offered by the company, perceived advantages in price, technical support, compatibility or other issues. Some of our competitors include WebRoot Software, Kaspersky Labs and Sunbelt Software. Many of our competitors, such as TrendMicro, McAfee and Symantec and Computer Associates have greater brand name recognition and financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do and consequently may have an ability to influence customers to purchase their products rather than ours. Our future and existing competitors could introduce products with superior features, scalability and functionality at lower prices than our products and could also bundle existing or new products with other more established products in order to compete with us. Our competitors could also gain market share by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our other competitors. Finally, because new distribution methods offered by the Internet and electronic commerce have removed many of the barriers to entry historically faced by start-up companies in the software industry, we may face additional sources of competition in the future. 12 If we are unable to develop and maintain new and enhanced Internet security or identity protection products and support services to meet emerging industry standards, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to address the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing, acquiring and introducing new products, product updates and services on a timely basis. The success of our business depends on our ability to keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. We intend to commit a portion of our resources to developing new applications for threat research and new security applications for Web 2.0 and social networking environments. However, if we are unable to successfully develop such products or if we develop these products but demand for them does not materialize or occurs more slowly than we expect, we will have expended resources (such as personnel and equipment) and capital without realizing sufficient revenue to recover these costs, and our operating results could be adversely affected. If we fail to adapt our technologies to new Internet technologies, we could lose customers and key technology partners. This would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, our business and the results of our operations. Internet technology is constantly evolving to make the user's experience easier and more comprehensive. Our products use Internet technologies. We must constantly monitor new technologies and adapt our technologies to them as appropriate. If we fail to keep our products compatible with the latest Internet technologies, they may not perform adequately and we may lose not only our customers, but those suppliers and partners whose Internet technologies support our products. The loss of our customers or our suppliers and partners would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, our business and the results of our operations. Because of the constant development of new or improved products in the software industry, we must continually update our products or create new products to keep pace with the latest advances. While we do our best to test these products prior to their release, they may nevertheless contain significant errors and failures, which could adversely affect our operating results. With the introduction of Windows 7, the most recent operating system from Microsoft, and constant changes in the software industry as new standards and processes emerge, we are required to continually update our suite of Internet security products. While we do our best to test these products prior to their release, due to the speed with which we are required to release new or updated products to remain competitive, they could be released with errors or they may fail altogether. These errors or failures may put the users of our software at risk because their computers will not be adequately protected against spyware, viruses, spam or phishing attacks. We try to reduce this risk by constantly upgrading our software and by working closely with the creators of the operating platforms, particularly Microsoft, to make sure that our software works with the operating platform. However, if our existing suite of Internet security products and our future products fail to perform adequately or fail entirely, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our ability to effectively recruit and retain qualified officers and directors could be adversely affected if we experience difficulty in maintaining directors' and officers' liability insurance. We may be unable to maintain insurance as a public company on terms affordable to us to cover liability for claims made against our officers and directors. If we are unable to adequately insure our officers and directors, we may not be able to retain or recruit qualified officers and directors to manage our business. 13 Loss of any of our key management personnel, particularly our CEO, could negatively impact our business and the value of our common stock. Our ability to execute our business strategy will depend on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our management team. We depend heavily on the services of Gary Guseinov, our Chief Executive Officer, Igor Barash, our Chief Product Officer and Secretary, Kevin Harris, our Chief Financial Officer, and Steve Okun, our Chief Revenue Officer. We believe that the skills of Mr. Guseinov would be particularly difficult to replace. We have long-term employment agreements with Mr. Guseinov and Mr. Harris. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Barash, but it is “at-will” and does not preclude him from leaving us. While Mr. Barash and Mr. Okun continue to provide services to us, we have no guarantee that they will continue to do so for any particular period of time. If we lose members of our key management personnel, we may be forced to expend significant time and money in the pursuit of replacements, which could result in both a delay in the expansion of our business and the diversion of limited working capital. We cannot assure you that we will find satisfactory replacements for these key management personnel at all, or on terms that are not unduly expensive or burdensome to our company. We do not maintain key man insurance policies on any of our key officers or employees. To date, our business has been developed assuming that laws and regulations that apply to Internet communications and e-commerce will remain minimal. Changes in government regulation and industry standards may adversely affect our business and operating results. We have developed our business assuming that the current state of the laws and regulations that apply to Internet communications, e-commerce and advertising will remain minimal. At this time, complying with these laws and regulations is not burdensome. However, as time exposes various problems created by Internet communications and e-commerce, laws and regulations may become more prevalent. These regulations may address issues such as user privacy, spyware, pricing, intellectual property ownership and infringement, taxation, and quality of products and services. This legislation could hinder growth in the use of the Internet generally and decrease the acceptance of the Internet as a communications, commercial and advertising medium. Changes in current regulations or the addition of new regulations could affect the costs of communicating on the Internet and adversely affect the demand for our products or otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. A large portion of our business is the development and distribution of software. If we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from unauthorized use of our technology, our business could be harmed. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other measures to protect our proprietary information, especially our software codes. All of these measures afford only limited protection. These measures may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, and others may develop technologies or processes that are similar or superior to our technology. We may not have the proprietary information controls and procedures in place that we need to protect our proprietary information adequately. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy our software or obtain or use information that we regard as proprietary, which could harm our business. Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. As the number of products in the software industry increases and the functionality of these products further overlap, we believe that we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims, which could include patent, copyright and trademark infringement claims. In addition, former employers of our former, current or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us the confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. Any such claim, with or without merit, could: 14 · be time consuming to defend; · result in costly litigation; · divert management’s attention from our core business; · require us to stop selling, delay providing or redesign our product; and · require us to pay monetary amounts as damages or for royalty or licensing arrangements. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities Our common stock began to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board on August 2, 2007. We cannot assure you that an active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. Even if an active market develops, it may not be possible to sell shares of our common stock in a timely manner. While our common stock began to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board on August 2, 2007, to date an active trading market has not developed and we cannot guarantee you that an active trading market will ever develop. This situation may be attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk averse and may be reluctant to follow a relatively unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, even though our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or nonexistent, as compared to a seasoned issuer that has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. Because an active trading market may not develop, it may not be possible to sell shares of our common stock in a timely manner. Our common stock is considered a “penny stock”. The application of the “penny stock” rules to our common stock could limit the trading and liquidity of the common stock, adversely affect the market price of our common stock and increase transaction costs to sell those shares. Our common stock is a “low-priced” security or “penny stock” under rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In accordance with these rules, broker-dealers participating in transactions in low-priced securities must first deliver a risk disclosure document which describes the risks associated with such stocks, the broker-dealer’s duties in selling the stock, the customer’s rights and remedies and certain market and other information. Furthermore, the broker-dealer must make a suitability determination approving the customer for low-priced stock transactions based on the customer’s financial situation, investment experience and objectives. Broker-dealers must also disclose these restrictions in writing to the customer, obtain specific written consent from the customer, and provide monthly account statements to the customer. The effect of these restrictions will probably decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, will decrease liquidity of our common stock and will increase transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common stock as compared to other securities. 15 The stock market in general and the market prices for penny stocks in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad fluctuations may be the result of unscrupulous practices that may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Shareholders should be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093 dated April 17, 1991, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (1) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (2) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (3) boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (4) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (5) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. The occurrence of these patterns or practices could increase the volatility of our share price. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management's attention and resources. Our executive officers and directors, along with their friends and family, own or control approximately 31% of our issued and outstanding common stock, which may limit the ability of our non-management shareholders, whether acting alone or together, to influence our management. Additionally, this concentration of ownership could discourage or prevent a potential takeover that might otherwise result in our shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for our common stock. Approximately 31% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock is owned and controlled by a group of insiders, including current directors and executive officers and their friends and family. Mr. Guseinov, our Chief Executive Officer and President, owns 23% of our issued and outstanding common stock. Such concentrated control may adversely affect the price of our common stock. These insiders may be able to control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors, mergers or other business combinations. Such concentrated control may also make it difficult for our shareholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock in the event we merge with a third party or enter into different transactions that require shareholder approval. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our non-management shareholders may have no effective voice in our management. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, and we may never pay dividends. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support the development of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including but not limited to our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited by California state law. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Limitations on director and officer liability and our indemnification of officers and directors may discourage shareholders from bringing suit against a director. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide, with certain exceptions as permitted by California law, that a director or officer shall not be personally liable to us or our shareholders for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for acts or omissions which involve intentional misconduct, fraud or knowing violation of law, or unlawful payments of dividends. These provisions may discourage shareholders from bringing suit against a director for breach of fiduciary duty and may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation brought by shareholders on our behalf against a director. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by California law. We have also entered into indemnity agreements with our directors and executive officers. 16 Future sales of our common stock could put downward selling pressure on our shares, and adversely affect the stock price. There is a risk that this downward pressure may make it impossible for an investor to sell his shares at any reasonable price, if at all. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could put downward selling pressure on our shares, and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 