Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Competition TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could negatively affect its business and financial results. TWC’s industry is, and will continue to be, highly competitive. Some of TWC’s principal competitors, DBS operators and incumbent local telephone companies, in particular, offer services that provide features and functions comparable to the video, high-speed data and/or voice services that TWC offers, and they offer them in bundles similar to TWC’s. In a number of TWC’s operating areas, AT&T and Verizon have upgraded portions of their networks to carry two-way video, high-speed data with substantial bandwidth and IP-based telephony services, which they market and sell in bundles along with their wireless service. TWC’s competitors try to distinguish their services from TWC’s by offering aggressive promotional pricing, exclusive programming, and/or assertions of superior service or offerings. In addition, TWC faces competition from a range of other competitors, including, increasingly, companies that deliver content to consumers over the Internet, often without charging a fee for access to the content. This trend could negatively impact customer demand for TWC’s video services, especially premium and On-Demand services, and could encourage content owners to seek higher license fees from TWC in order to subsidize their free distribution of content. TWC also faces competition in high speed data from second- and third-generation wireless broadband services provided by mobile carriers such as Verizon, AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile and broadband over power lines. Competition in voice services is increasing as more homes in the United States are replacing their traditional telephone service with wireless service. Any inability to compete effectively or an increase in competition with respect to video, high-speed data or voice services could have an adverse effect on TWC’s financial results and return on capital expenditures due to possible increases in the cost of gaining and retaining subscribers and lower per subscriber revenue, could slow or cause a decline in TWC’s growth rates, reduce TWC’s revenues, reduce the number of TWC’s subscribers and/or reduce TWC’s ability to increase penetration rates for services. As TWC expands and introduces new and enhanced services, TWC may be subject to competition from other providers of those services, such as telecommunications providers, Internet Service Providers and consumer electronics companies, among others. TWC cannot predict the extent to which this competition will affect its future business and financial results or return on capital expenditures. Future advances in technology, as well as changes in the marketplace, in the economy and in the regulatory and legislative environments, may result in changes to the competitive landscape. For additional information regarding the regulatory and legal environment, see “—Risks Related to Government Regulation,” “—Risks Related to TWC’s Operations—Weakening economic conditions, including a continued downturn in the housing market, may negatively impact TWC’s ability to attract new subscribers, increase rates and maintain or increase revenues” and “Business—Competition” and “—Regulatory Matters.” TWC operates its cable systems under franchises that are non-exclusive. State and local franchising authorities can grant additional franchises and foster additional competition. TWC’s cable systems are constructed and operated under non-exclusive franchises granted by state or local governmental authorities. Federal law prohibits franchising authorities from unreasonably denying requests for additional franchises. Consequently, competing operators may build systems in areas in which TWC holds franchises. The existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is referred to as an “overbuild.” In the past, competing operators—most of them relatively small—have obtained such franchises and offered competing services in some areas in which TWC holds franchises. More recently, incumbent local telephone companies with significant resources, particularly Verizon and AT&T, have obtained such franchises in order to offer video, high-speed data and voice services in some of TWC’s service areas. See “—TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could negatively affect its business and financial results” above. Verizon and AT&T are continuing to upgrade their networks to expand the geographic areas in which they can deliver video and high-speed data services, in addition to their existing telephone services. Increased competition from any source, including overbuilders, could require TWC to charge lower prices for existing or future services than TWC otherwise might or require TWC to invest in or obtain additional services more 28 Table of Contents quickly or at higher costs than TWC otherwise might. These actions, or the failure to take steps to allow TWC to compete effectively, could adversely affect TWC’s growth, financial condition and results of operations. TWC faces risks relating to competition for the leisure and entertainment time of audiences, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, TWC’s business is subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. TWC’s business competes with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, sports, print media and the Internet. Technological advancements, such as VOD, new video formats, and Internet streaming and downloading, many of which have been beneficial to TWC’s business, have nonetheless increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. Increasingly, content owners are delivering their content directly to consumers over the Internet, often without charging any fee for access to the content. Furthermore, due to consumer electronics innovations, consumers are more readily able to watch such Internet-delivered content on television sets. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could negatively impact not only consumer demand for TWC’s products and services, but also advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from TWC. If TWC does not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, TWC’s competitive position could deteriorate, and TWC’s financial results could suffer. TWC’s competitive position and business and financial results could suffer if it does not develop a compelling wireless offering. TWC believes that broadband cable networks currently provide the most efficient means to deliver its services, but consumers are increasingly interested in accessing information, entertainment and communication services outside the home as well. TWC is exploring various means by which it can offer its customers mobile services. TWC has entered into a wholesale agreement with Sprint that allows TWC to offer wireless services utilizing Sprint’s second-generation and third-generation network and a wholesale agreement with Clearwire that will allow TWC to offer wireless services utilizing Clearwire’s mobile broadband wireless network, once constructed. TWC also is a participant in SpectrumCo, which holds AWS licenses covering 20 MHz over 80% of the continental United States and Hawaii. There can be no assurance that Clearwire will successfully finance, develop, construct and deploy a nationwide mobile broadband wireless network or that Clearwire, SpectrumCo or the Company will successfully develop wireless services. If TWC incurs significant costs in developing or marketing mobile voice and/or related wireless offerings, and the resulting offerings are not competitive with the offerings of TWC’s competitors or appealing to TWC’s customers, TWC’s business and financial results could suffer. In addition, if TWC’s competitors expand their service bundles to include compelling mobile features before TWC has developed and rolled out equivalent or more compelling offerings, TWC may not be in a position to provide a competitive service offering and its growth, business and financial results may be adversely affected. Risks Related to TWC’s Operations Weakening economic conditions, including a continued downturn in the housing market, may negatively impact TWC’s ability to attract new subscribers, increase rates and maintain or increase revenues. The United States economy is currently undergoing a period of slowdown and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. A continuation or further weakening of these economic conditions could lead to further reductions in consumer demand for the Company’s services, especially premium services and DVRs, and a continued increase in the number of homes that replace their traditional telephone service with wireless service, which would negatively impact TWC’s ability to attract customers, increase rates and maintain or increase subscription revenues. In addition, providing basic video services is an established and highly penetrated business. TWC’s ability to achieve incremental growth in basic video subscribers is dependent to a large extent on growth in occupied housing in TWC’s service areas, which is influenced by both national and local economic conditions. If growth in the number of occupied homes continues to decline, it may negatively impact TWC’s ability to gain new basic video subscribers. In addition, TWC’s advertising revenues have 29 Table of Contents been negatively impacted by the weakening economic conditions, and a continuation or further weakening of these conditions could lead to further reduced advertising revenue in the foreseeable future. TWC’s business is characterized by rapid technological change, and if TWC does not respond appropriately to technological changes, its competitive position may be harmed. TWC operates in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment and is, to a large extent, dependent on its ability to acquire, develop, adopt and exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish its services from those of its competitors. If TWC chooses technologies or equipment that are less effective, cost-efficient or attractive to its customers than those chosen by its competitors, or if TWC offers services that fail to appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices or that do not function as expected, TWC’s competitive position could deteriorate, and TWC’s business and financial results could suffer. The ability of TWC’s competitors to acquire or develop and introduce new technologies, products and services more quickly than TWC may adversely affect TWC’s competitive position. Furthermore, advances in technology, decreases in the cost of existing technologies or changes in competitors’ product and service offerings also may require TWC in the future to make additional research and development expenditures or to offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain products and services TWC currently offers to customers separately or at a premium. In addition, the uncertainty of the costs for obtaining intellectual property rights from third parties could impact TWC’s ability to respond to technological advances in a timely manner. Significant unanticipated increases in the use of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services could increase TWC’s costs. The rising popularity of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services poses special risks for TWC’s high-speed data services. Examples of such services include peer-to-peer file sharing services, gaming services and the delivery of video via streaming technology and by download. If heavy usage of bandwidth-intensive services grows beyond TWC’s current expectations, TWC may need to invest more capital than currently anticipated to expand the bandwidth capacity of its systems or TWC’s customers may have a suboptimal experience when using TWC’s high-speed data service. In order to continue to provide quality service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses and demands and to manage bandwidth usage efficiently. TWC’s ability to do these things could be restricted by legislative efforts to impose so-called “net neutrality” requirements on cable operators. See “—Risks Related to Government Regulation—‘Net neutrality’ legislation or regulation could limit TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business profitably and to manage its broadband facilities efficiently to respond to growing bandwidth usage by TWC’s high-speed data customers.” TWC may encounter unforeseen difficulties as it increases the scale of its service offerings to commercial customers. TWC has sold video, high-speed data and network and transport services to businesses for some time and, in 2007, introduced an IP-based telephony service, Business Class Phone, geared to small- and medium-sized businesses. In order to provide its commercial customers with reliable services, TWC may need to increase expenditures, including spending on technology, equipment and personnel. If the services are not sufficiently reliable or TWC otherwise fails to meet commercial customers’ expectations, the growth of its commercial services business may be limited. In addition, TWC faces competition from the existing local telephone companies as well as from a variety of other national and regional business services competitors. If TWC is unable to successfully attract and retain commercial customers, its growth, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents TWC relies on network and information systems and other technology, and a disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental releases of information or similar events, may disrupt TWC’s business. Because network and information systems and other technologies are critical to TWC’s operating activities, network or information system shutdowns caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and similar events, pose increasing risks. Such an event could have an adverse impact on TWC and its customers, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to TWC’s plant, equipment and data. Such an event also could result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of TWC’s operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers or revenues. Furthermore, TWC’s operating activities could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in TWC’s information technology systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data. TWC could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage the reputation and credibility of TWC and its business and have a negative impact on its revenues. TWC also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection, privacy and security of personal information, information-related risks are increasing, particularly for businesses like TWC’s that handle a large amount of personal customer data. TWC’s business may be adversely affected if TWC cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which its business depends. TWC relies on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses and other agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers, and other parties, to establish and maintain its intellectual property rights in technology and the products and services used in TWC’s operations. However, any of TWC’s intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit TWC to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm. Claims of intellectual property infringement could require TWC to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, which could require TWC to change its business practices or offerings and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even claims without merit can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management’s attention and resources away from TWC’s businesses. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change, TWC relies on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and TWC may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, if at all. The accounting treatment of goodwill and other identified intangibles could result in future asset impairments, which would be recorded as operating losses. Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“FAS 142”) requires that goodwill, including the goodwill included in the carrying value of investments accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, such as cable franchise rights, cease to be amortized. FAS 142 requires that goodwill and certain intangible assets be tested annually for impairment or earlier upon the occurrence of certain events or substantive changes in circumstances. If TWC finds that the carrying value of goodwill or a certain intangible asset exceeds its estimated fair value, it will reduce the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset to the estimated fair value, and TWC will recognize an impairment. Any such impairment is required to be recorded as a noncash operating loss. 31 Table of Contents TWC’s 2008 annual impairment analysis, which was performed as of December 31, 2008, resulted in a noncash pretax impairment on its cable franchise rights of $14.822 billion, and as a result, the carrying values of the Company’s impaired cable franchise rights were re-set to their estimated fair values as of December 31, 2008. Consequently, any further decline in the estimated fair values of these cable franchise rights could result in additional cable franchise rights impairments. It is possible that such impairments, if required, could be material and may need to be recorded prior to the fourth quarter of 2009 (i.e., during an interim period) if the Company’s results of operations or other factors require such assets to be tested for impairment at an interim date. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Asset Impairments—Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets” and “—Long-lived Assets.” The IRS and state and local tax authorities may challenge the tax characterizations of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions (as defined below) and the Exchange (as defined below), or TWC’s related valuations, and any successful challenge by the IRS or state or local tax authorities could materially adversely affect TWC’s tax profile, significantly increase TWC’s future cash tax payments and significantly reduce TWC’s future earnings and cash flow. The Adelphia Acquisition was designed to be a fully taxable asset sale, the redemption by TWC of Comcast’s interests in TWC (the “TWC Redemption”) was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Tax Code”), the redemption by TWE of Comcast’s interests in TWE (the “TWE Redemption” and collectively with the TWC Redemption, the “Redemptions”) was designed as a redemption of Comcast’s partnership interest in TWE, and the exchange between TW NY Cable and Comcast immediately after the Adelphia Acquisition (the “Exchange”) was designed as an exchange of designated cable systems. There can be no assurance, however, that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) or state or local tax authorities (collectively with the IRS, the “Tax Authorities”) will not challenge one or more of such characterizations or TWC’s related valuations. Such a successful challenge by the Tax Authorities could materially adversely affect TWC’s tax profile (including TWC’s ability to recognize the intended tax benefits from the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions), significantly increase TWC’s future cash tax payments and significantly reduce TWC’s future earnings and cash flow. The tax consequences of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and the Exchange are complex and, in many cases, subject to significant uncertainties, including, but not limited to, uncertainties regarding the application of federal, state and local income tax laws to various transactions and events contemplated therein and regarding matters relating to valuation. TWC has incurred substantial debt, which may limit its flexibility, prevent it from taking advantage of business opportunities and negatively affect its ability to refinance existing debt. In connection with the Separation, TWC incurred $7.0 billion of indebtedness pursuant to the 2008 Bond Offerings to fund, in part, the Special Dividend and expects to incur additional indebtedness to fund the Special Dividend and expenses related to the Separation Transactions through a combination of borrowings under the 2008 Bridge Facility, additional financing in the public debt markets and/or borrowings under TWC’s $6 billion senior unsecured five-year revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”). The increased indebtedness and the terms of these financing arrangements and any future indebtedness will impose various restrictions on TWC that could limit its ability to respond to market conditions, provide for capital investment needs or take advantage of business opportunities. Also, as a result of TWC’s increased borrowings, its interest expense will be higher than it has been in the past, which will affect TWC’s profitability and cash flows. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility and TWC’s $3.045 billion five-year term loan facility both mature in 2011. At this time it is difficult to forecast the future state of the bank loan market. As a result of TWC’s substantial debt levels and the uncertain state of various financial institutions and the credit markets generally, TWC may be unable to refinance its bank facilities in the same amount and on the same terms as its current facilities, which could negatively impact its liquidity and results of operations. TWC is exposed to risks associated with turmoil in the financial markets. U.S. and global credit and equity markets have recently undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, equity markets are continuing to 32 Table of Contents experience wide fluctuations in value. As a result, an increasing number of financial institutions and insurance companies have reported significant deterioration in their financial condition. If any of the significant lenders, insurance companies or other financial institutions are unable to perform their obligations under the Company’s credit agreements, insurance policies or other contracts, and the Company is unable to find suitable replacements on acceptable terms, the Company’s results of operations, liquidity and cash flows could be adversely affected. The Company also faces challenges relating to the impact of the disruption in the global financial markets on other parties with which the Company does business, such as vendors and retailers. The inability of these parties to obtain financing on acceptable terms could impair their ability to perform under their agreements with the Company and lead to various negative effects on the Company, including business disruption, decreased revenues and increases in bad debt write-offs. A sustained decline in the financial stability of these parties could have an adverse impact on TWC’s business and results of operations. Risks Related to Dependence on Third Parties Increases in programming and retransmission costs or the inability to obtain popular programming could adversely affect TWC’s operations, business or financial results. Video programming costs represent a major component of TWC’s expenses and are expected to continue to increase primarily due to the increasing cost of obtaining desirable programming, particularly broadcast and sports programming. TWC’s video service margins have declined over recent years and will continue to decline over the next coming years as cable programming and broadcast station retransmission consent cost increases outpace growth in video revenues. Furthermore, providers of desirable content may be unwilling to enter into distribution arrangements with TWC on acceptable terms. In addition, owners of non-broadcast video programming content may enter into exclusive distribution arrangements with TWC’s competitors. A failure to carry programming that is attractive to TWC’s subscribers could adversely impact subscription and advertising revenues. TWC may not be able to obtain necessary hardware, software and operational support. TWC depends on third party suppliers and licensors to supply some of the hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of TWC’s services. Some of TWC’s hardware, software and operational support vendors represent TWC’s sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity. If demand exceeds these vendors’ capacity or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, especially in light of current economic and market conditions, TWC’s ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected. These events could materially and adversely affect TWC’s ability to retain and attract subscribers, and have a material negative impact on TWC’s operations, business, financial results and financial condition. TWC has an agreement with Sprint under which it provides certain functions and services necessary to TWC in providing Digital Phone service to customers by routing voice traffic to and from destinations outside of TWC’s network via the public switched telephone network, delivering E911 service and assisting in local number portability and long-distance traffic carriage. TWC’s reliance on a single provider for these services may render TWC vulnerable to service disruptions and other operational difficulties, which could have an adverse effect on TWC’s business and financial results. TWC may encounter substantially increased pole attachment costs. Under federal law, TWC has the right to attach cables carrying video services to telephone and similar poles of investor-owned utilities at regulated rates. However, because these cables carry services other than video services, such as high-speed data services or new forms of voice services, some utility pole owners have sought to impose additional fees for pole attachment. The U.S. Supreme Court has rejected the efforts of some utility pole owners to make cable attachments carrying Internet traffic ineligible for regulatory protection. Pole owners have, however, made arguments in other areas of pole regulation that, if successful, could significantly increase TWC’s costs. In November 2007, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that proposes to establish a single pole attachment rate for all utility pole owners carrying broadband Internet access services that would be higher than the rate charged for video and cable modem service. 33 Table of Contents Some of the poles TWC uses are exempt from federal regulation because they are owned by utility cooperatives and municipal entities. These entities may not renew TWC’s existing agreements when they expire, and they may require TWC to pay substantially increased fees. A number of these entities are currently seeking to impose substantial rate increases. Any inability to secure continued pole attachment agreements with these cooperatives or municipal utilities on commercially reasonable terms could cause TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition to suffer. Risks Related to Government Regulation TWC’s business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could adversely affect its business. TWC’s video and voice services are subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. In addition, the federal government has extended some regulation to high-speed data services and is considering additional regulations. TWC is also subject to regulation of its video services relating to rates, equipment, technologies, programming, levels and types of services, taxes and other charges. Modification to existing regulations or the imposition of new regulations could have an adverse impact on TWC’s services. If the Congress or regulators were to disallow the use of certain technologies TWC uses today or to mandate the implementation of other technologies, TWC’s services and results of operations could suffer. TWC expects that legislative enactments, court actions, and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and, in some cases, change the rights of cable companies and other entities providing video, high-speed data and voice services under the Communications Act and other laws, possibly in ways that TWC has not foreseen. The results of these legislative, judicial, and administrative actions may materially affect TWC’s business operations in areas such as: • Voice Communications. Traditional providers of voice services generally are subject to significant state and federal regulations. It is unclear to what extent certain of those regulations (or other regulations) apply to certain providers of interconnected voice-over IP services, including TWC’s. In orders over the past several years, the FCC subjected voice-over IP providers to a number of regulatory obligations applicable to traditional voice service. To the extent that the FCC, Congress or individual states impose additional burdens, TWC’s operations could be adversely affected. See “Business—Regulatory Matters—Voice Services.” • Phantom Signals. In May 2008, the U.S. Copyright Office (the “Copyright Office”) published an order stating its view that where cable operators carry a distant station in any portion of a “cable system” as defined in the Copyright Act of 1976, basic service revenues from all portions of such system where such station would be distant must be used to compute copyright compulsory license royalties, even if the station is not actually carried in such areas. The Copyright Office’s reading of the relevant law could significantly increase the Company’s costs of carrying “distant” television stations. Changes in broadcast carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on TWC. Although TWC would likely choose to carry the majority of primary feeds of full power stations voluntarily, so-called “must carry” rules require TWC to carry some local broadcast television signals on some of its cable systems that it might not otherwise carry. If the FCC seeks to revise or expand the “must carry” rules, such as to require carriage of multicast streams, TWC would be forced to carry video programming that it would not otherwise carry and potentially to drop other, more popular programming in order to free capacity for the required programming, which could make TWC less competitive. Moreover, if the FCC adopts rules that are not competitively neutral, cable operators could be placed at a disadvantage versus other multi-channel video providers. Under the program carriage rules, TWC could be compelled to carry programming services that it would not otherwise carry. The Communications Act and the FCC’s “program carriage” rules restrict cable operators and MVPDs from unreasonably restraining the ability of an unaffiliated programming vendor to compete fairly by discriminating against the programming vendor on the basis of its non-affiliation in the selection, terms or conditions for carriage. The FCC’s Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order imposes certain additional obligations related to these rules. Under a successful program carriage complaint, TWC might be compelled to carry programming services it would 34 Table of Contents not otherwise carry and/or to do so on economic and other terms that it would not accept absent such compulsion. TWC is currently the defendant in two program carriage complaints. See “Business—Regulatory Matters—Video Services—Program access and Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order.” Compelled government carriage could reduce TWC’s ability to carry other, more desirable programming and non-video services, decrease its ability to manage its bandwidth efficiently and increase TWC’s costs, adversely affecting TWC’s competitive position. “Net neutrality” legislation or regulation could limit TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business profitably and to manage its broadband facilities efficiently to respond to growing bandwidth usage by TWC’s high-speed data customers. Several disparate groups have adopted the term “net neutrality” in connection with their efforts to persuade Congress and regulators to adopt rules that could limit the ability of broadband providers to effectively manage or operate their broadband networks. Proponents of net neutrality advocate a variety of regulations, including regulations which prohibit broadband providers from recovering the costs of rising bandwidth usage from any parties other than retail customers; require absolute nondiscrimination for any Internet traffic; and require forms of “open access.” The average bandwidth usage of TWC’s high-speed data customers has been increasing significantly in recent years as the amount of high-bandwidth content and the number of applications available on the Internet continue to grow. In order to continue to provide quality service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses and demands and to manage bandwidth usage efficiently. As a result, depending on the form it might take, “net neutrality” legislation or regulation could adversely impact TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data network profitably and to undertake the upgrades that may be needed to continue to provide high quality high-speed data services and could negatively impact its ability to compete effectively. For a description of current regulatory proposals, see “Business—Regulatory Matters—High-Speed Data Internet Access Services—‘Net neutrality’ legislative and regulatory proposals.” If TWC is prohibited by regulation from using SDV technology, it may be forced to make costly upgrades to its system in order to remain competitive. As of December 31, 2008, TWC had deployed switched digital video, or SDV, technology to approximately 5.2 million digital video subscribers. SDV technology allows TWC to save bandwidth by transmitting particular programming services only to groups of homes or nodes where subscribers are viewing the programming at a particular time rather than broadcasting it to all subscriber homes. The FCC may interpret existing regulation or introduce new regulation to restrict cable operators’ ability to use SDV technology. If TWC is prohibited by regulation from using SDV technology, it may have difficulty carrying the volume of HDTV channels and other bandwidth-intensive traffic carried by competitors and may be forced to make costly upgrades to its systems in order to remain competitive. See “Business—Regulatory Matters—Video Services—Switched digital video.” Rate regulation could materially adversely impact TWC’s operations, business, financial results or financial condition. Under current FCC regulations, rates for BST video service and associated equipment are permitted to be regulated. In many localities, TWC is not subject to BST video rate regulation, either because the local franchising authority has not asked the FCC for permission to regulate rates or because the FCC has found that there is “effective competition.” Also, there is currently no rate regulation for TWC’s other services, including high-speed data and voice services. It is possible, however, that the FCC or Congress will adopt more extensive rate regulation for TWC’s video services or regulate other services, such as high-speed data and voice services, which could impede TWC’s ability to raise rates, or require rate reductions, and therefore could cause TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition to suffer. TWC may have to pay fees in connection with its cable modem service. Local franchising authorities generally require cable operators to pay a franchise fee of five percent of revenue, which cable operators collect in turn from their subscribers. TWC has taken the position that under the 35 Table of Contents Communications Act, local franchising authorities are allowed to impose a franchise fee only on revenue from “cable services.” Following the FCC’s March 2002 determination that cable modem service does not constitute a “cable service,” TWC and most other multiple system operators stopped collecting and paying franchise fees on cable modem revenue. The FCC has initiated a rulemaking proceeding to explore the consequences of its March 2002 order. If either the FCC or a court were to determine that, despite the March 2002 order, TWC is required to pay franchise fees on cable modem revenue, TWC’s franchise fee burden could increase going forward. TWC would be permitted to collect those increased fees from its subscribers, but doing so could impair its competitive position as compared to high-speed data service providers who are not required to collect and pay franchise fees. TWC could also become liable for franchise fees back to the time TWC stopped paying them. TWC may not be able to recover those fees from subscribers. Most courts interpreting the rules, including several instances involving TWC, have determined that cable operators are not required to pay these fees on cable modem service. Applicable law is subject to change. The exact requirements of applicable law are not always clear, and the rules affecting TWC’s businesses are always subject to change. For example, the FCC may interpret its rules and regulations in enforcement proceedings in a manner that is inconsistent with the judgments TWC has made. Likewise, regulators and legislators at all levels of government may sometimes change existing rules or establish new rules. Congress, for example, considers new legislative requirements for cable operators virtually every year, and there is always a risk that such proposals will ultimately be enacted. In addition, federal, state or local governments and/or tax authorities may change tax laws, regulations or administrative practices that could negatively impact TWC’s operating results and financial condition. See “Business—Regulatory Matters.” Risks Related to the Separation TWC may not realize some or all of the benefits that it expects from the Separation. TWC believes that the Separation will result in several benefits to the Company, including increased long-term strategic, operational and regulatory flexibility and a more efficient capital structure. The Company cannot predict with certainty the extent to which these benefits actually will be achieved, if at all. Furthermore, even if some or all of these benefits are achieved, they may not result in the creation of value for TWC’s stockholders. If the Separation Transactions, including the Distribution, do not qualify as tax-free, either as a result of actions taken or not taken by TWC or as a result of the failure of certain representations by TWC to be true, TWC has agreed to indemnify Time Warner for its taxes resulting from such disqualification, which would be significant. In addition, the restrictions imposed on TWC in connection with the tax treatment of the Distribution could limit TWC’s ability to engage in certain corporate transactions. The Separation Transactions are conditioned upon Time Warner’s receipt of a private letter ruling from the IRS and Time Warner’s and TWC’s receipt of opinions of tax counsel confirming that the Separation Transactions should generally qualify as tax-free to Time Warner and its stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The ruling and opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations, and undertakings from Time Warner and TWC regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Time Warner and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinions and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinions, the IRS could determine on audit that the Separation Transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in the stock ownership of Time Warner or TWC after the Distribution. Under the tax sharing agreement among Time Warner and TWC, TWC generally would be required to indemnify Time Warner against its taxes resulting from the failure of any of the Separation Transactions to qualify as tax-free as a result of (i) certain actions or failures to act by TWC or (ii) the failure of certain representations to be made by TWC to be true. Due to the potential impact of significant stock ownership changes on the taxability of the 36 Table of Contents Separation Transactions, TWC’s indemnification obligations may prevent it from entering into transactions that might otherwise be advantageous, such as issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs or acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities if such issuances would exceed certain thresholds and such actions could be considered part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Distribution. In addition, even if TWC bears no contractual responsibility for taxes related to a failure of the Separation Transactions to qualify for their intended tax treatment, Treasury regulation section 1.1502-6 imposes on TWC several liability for all Time Warner federal income tax obligations relating to the period during which TWC was a member of the Time Warner federal consolidated tax group, including the date of the Separation Transactions. Similar provisions may apply under foreign, state, or local law. Absent TWC causing the Separation Transactions to not qualify as tax-free, Time Warner has indemnified TWC against such several liability arising from a failure of the Separation Transactions to qualify for their intended tax treatment. Risks Related to TWC’s Relationship with Time Warner Time Warner controls approximately 90.6% of the voting power of TWC’s outstanding common stock and has the ability to elect a majority of TWC’s directors, and its interest may conflict with the interests of TWC’s other stockholders. Time Warner indirectly holds all of TWC’s outstanding Class B common stock and approximately 82.7% of TWC’s outstanding Class A common stock. The common stock held by Time Warner represents approximately 90.6% of TWC’s combined voting power and 84.0% of the total number of shares of capital stock outstanding of all classes of TWC’s voting stock. Accordingly, Time Warner can control the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of TWC’s stockholders. In addition, Time Warner, because it is the indirect holder of all of TWC’s outstanding Class B common stock, and because it also indirectly holds a majority of TWC’s outstanding Class A common stock, is able to elect all of TWC’s directors and will continue to be able to do so as long as it owns a majority of TWC’s Class A common stock and Class B common stock. As a result of Time Warner’s share ownership and representation on TWC’s board of directors, Time Warner is able to influence all of TWC’s affairs and actions, including matters requiring stockholder approval such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of Time Warner may differ from the interests of TWC’s other stockholders. The TWC Certificate of Incorporation requires that TWC’s board of directors include independent members, subject to certain limitations, and the TWC By-laws require that certain related party transactions be approved by a majority of these independent directors. Some of TWC’s officers and directors may have interests that diverge from TWC in favor of Time Warner because of past and ongoing relationships with Time Warner and its affiliates. Some of TWC’s officers and directors may experience conflicts of interest with respect to decisions involving business opportunities and similar matters that may arise in the ordinary course of TWC’s business or the business of Time Warner and its affiliates. One of TWC’s directors is an executive officer of Time Warner and five of TWC’s directors (including Glenn A. Britt, TWC’s President and Chief Executive Officer) served as executive officers of Time Warner or its predecessors in the past. A number of TWC directors and executive officers also have restricted shares, restricted stock units and/or options to purchase shares of Time Warner common stock. These past and ongoing relationships with Time Warner and any significant financial interest in Time Warner by these persons may present conflicts of interest that could materially adversely affect TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition. For example, these decisions could be materially related to: • the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to TWC by Time Warner; • the desirability of corporate opportunities, such as the entry into new businesses or pursuit of potential acquisitions, particularly those that might allow TWC to compete with Time Warner; and • employee retention or recruiting. 37 Table of Contents Time Warner and its affiliates may compete with TWC in one or more lines of business and may provide some services under the “Time Warner” brand or similar brand names. Time Warner and its affiliates are engaged in a diverse range of entertainment and media-related businesses, including filmed entertainment, home video and Internet-related businesses, and these businesses may have interests that conflict with or compete in some manner with TWC’s business. Time Warner and its affiliates are generally under no obligation to share any future business opportunities available to it with TWC and the TWC Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions that release Time Warner and its affiliates, including TWC’s directors who are also Time Warner’s employees or executive officers, from this obligation and any liability that would result from breach of this obligation. Time Warner may deliver video, high-speed data, voice and wireless services over DSL, satellite or other means using the “Time Warner” brand name or similar brand names, potentially causing confusion among customers and complicating TWC’s marketing efforts. Any competition directly with Time Warner or its affiliates could materially adversely impact TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition. TWC is currently party to agreements and, following the Separation, will be party to new agreements with Time Warner governing the use of TWC’s brand names, including the “Time Warner Cable” brand name, that may be terminated by Time Warner if TWC fails to perform its obligations under those agreements or if TWC undergoes a specified change of control. TWC is currently party to agreements with Time Warner and, has entered into new agreements with Time Warner that will be effective at the Separation, governing the use of TWC’s brand name. These agreements may be terminated by Time Warner if TWC: • commits a significant breach of its obligations under such agreements; • undergoes a specified change of control; or • materially fails to maintain the quality standards established for the use of these brand names and the products and services related to these brand names. TWC licenses its brand name, “Time Warner Cable,” from Time Warner and the trademark “Road Runner” from an affiliate of Time Warner and will continue to do so following the Separation. If Time Warner terminates these brand name license agreements, TWC would lose the goodwill associated with its brand names and be forced to develop new brand names, which would likely require substantial expenditures, and TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition would likely be materially adversely affected. A change in Time Warner’s controlling interest in TWC may cause short-term volatility in trading volume and market price of TWC’s common stock. Time Warner currently owns approximately 84.0% of TWC’s common stock, which represents a 90.6% voting interest. Time Warner and TWC have entered into a Separation Agreement. In connection with the Separation Transactions, if a number of TWC’s resulting new stockholders chose to sell their shares, or if there is a perception that such sales might occur, it may cause short-term volatility in the trading volume and market price of TWC’s common stock. Time Warner’s capital markets and debt activity could adversely affect capital resources available to TWC. Prior to the Separation, TWC’s ability to obtain financing in the capital markets and from other private sources may be adversely affected by future capital markets activity undertaken by Time Warner and its other subsidiaries. Capital raised by or committed to Time Warner for matters unrelated to TWC may reduce the supply of capital available for TWC as a result of increased leverage of Time Warner on a consolidated basis or reluctance in the market to incur additional credit exposure to Time Warner on a consolidated basis. In addition, TWC’s ability to undertake significant capital raising activities may be constrained by competing capital needs of other Time Warner businesses unrelated to TWC. As of December 31, 2008, Time Warner had unused committed capacity of approximately $4.4 billion under its $7.0 billion committed credit facility, and approximately $1.2 billion of cash and equivalents, and TWC had approximately $5.7 billion of available borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility, and approximately $5.4 billion of cash and equivalents. 38 Table of Contents TWC is exempt from certain corporate governance requirements since TWC is a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, its stockholders do not have the protections afforded by these corporate governance requirements. Time Warner controls more than 50% of the voting power of TWC’s outstanding common stock. As a result, TWC is considered to be a “controlled company” for the purposes of the NYSE listing requirements and therefore is permitted to, and has, opted out of the NYSE listing requirements that would otherwise require TWC’s compensation and nominating and governance committees to be comprised entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, TWC’s stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. However, the TWC Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions requiring that independent directors constitute at least 50% of TWC’s board of directors and the TWC By-laws require that certain related party transactions be approved by a majority of these independent directors. As a condition to the consummation of the Adelphia Acquisition, TWC’s Certificate of Incorporation provides that this provision may not be amended, altered or repealed, and no provision inconsistent with this requirement may be adopted, until August 1, 2009 (three years following the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition) without, among other things, the consent of a majority of the holders of the Class A common stock other than Time Warner and its affiliates. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 