Risk Factors. As indicated above in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” all statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including statements of, about, concerning or regarding: our plans, strategies and objectives for future operations; new products, services or developments; trends in revenue; future economic conditions, performance or outlook; the outcome of contingencies; the value of our contract awards; beliefs or expectations; and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. These statements reflect the current beliefs, expectations, estimates, forecasts or intent of our management and are subject to and involve certain risks and uncertainties. Many of these risks and uncertainties are outside of our control and are difficult for us to forecast or 15 Table of Contents mitigate. In addition to the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in certain of our other filings with the SEC, the following risks and uncertainties, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by us or by any forward-looking statement contained herein. Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to our Merger with Stratex Our merger with Stratex created numerous risks and uncertainties which could adversely affect our operating results. Strategic transactions like our merger with Stratex create numerous uncertainties and risks. Harris MCD has transitioned from being a division of Harris to being a stand-alone company, Harris Stratex. Both Stratex and Harris MCD are transitioning from being smaller companies to being a larger company, Harris Stratex. This merger entails many changes, including the integration of personnel from Harris MCD and Stratex and changes in systems and employee benefits plans. These transition activities are complex, and we may encounter unexpected difficulties or incur unexpected costs, including: • the diversion of management’s attention to integration matters; • difficulties in achieving expected cost savings associated with the transaction; • difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; • difficulties in the assimilation of employees; • difficulties in replacing the support functions currently provided by Harris to us, including support and assistance for financial, operational and information technology functions; • challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and • challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel. As a result, we may not be able to realize the expected revenue growth and other benefits that we seek to achieve from the combination with Stratex. In addition, we may be required to spend additional time or money on integration that otherwise would be spent on the development and expansion of our business, production and services. Uncertainties associated with the merger may cause us to lose significant customers. In response to our merger with Stratex, or due to the diversion of our attention, current and potential customers may delay or defer decisions concerning their use of our products and services. We have not experienced significant contract terminations or other loss of business due to the merger. However, if our customers elect to terminate their contracts, the financial condition of the combined company may be materially and adversely affected. Loss of key personnel could lead to loss of customers and a decline in revenue, or otherwise adversely affect our operations. The success of the merger will depend in part upon our ability to retain key employees. Competition for qualified personnel in the microwave communications industry is intense. In addition, key employees may depart because of issues relating to the difficulty of or uncertainty regarding the integration of the businesses or because of uncertainties relating to their future compensation and benefits. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals or if our costs to do so increase significantly, our business could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Relationship between Harris and Us We are and will continue to be controlled by Harris, whose interests may conflict with ours. Harris owns no shares of our Class A common stock but all of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, through which it holds an approximate 57% interest of our outstanding equity which gives it approximately 57% of the voting power represented by our outstanding common stock. In addition, Harris has the right to appoint separately, as a class, five of our nine directors as long as the shares of our common stock held by Harris entitle Harris to cast a majority of the votes at an election of our directors (other than those directors appointed by Harris separately as a class). Harris also votes, along with our Class A stockholder, in the election of the four remaining directors, and as the holder of approximately 57% of our outstanding common shares holds a majority of the shares eligible to vote. In the election of the four remaining directors, Harris has agreed to vote for the persons nominated for such positions by our Nominating Committee, which is composed entirely of directors not appointed by Harris. For two years from January 26, 2007, Harris has agreed that it will not acquire or dispose of beneficial ownership in shares of our common stock, except under limited circumstances, and has no obligation to dispose of its interest in us following such two-year period. Accordingly, Harris is likely to continue to exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs, including the composition of our board of directors and any action requiring the approval of our shareholders. The concentration of ownership also may make some transactions, including mergers or other changes in control, more difficult or impossible without the support of Harris. Harris interests may conflict with your interests as a shareholder. As a result, your ability to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval will be limited. As the only holder of our outstanding Class B common stock, Harris has the unilateral right to elect, remove and replace, at any time, a majority of our board of directors, so long as the members elected, removed or replaced by Harris satisfy the requirements agreed to by the Company and Harris as set forth in an investor agreement entered into at the time of the Stratex acquisition. More specifically, Harris has agreed that, so long as it holds a majority of our voting common stock, it will have the right to appoint five of our nine directors and, until January 26, 2009, at least one of the Harris directors will meet the NASDAQ independence standards for audit committee members and at least one other Harris director will not be an employee of Harris or any of its subsidiaries (other than Harris Stratex or our subsidiaries). After January 26, 2009, Harris will be able to elect or replace all the Harris directors without regard to their relationship with Harris. Harris has rights reflecting its controlling interest in our company. As a result, the ability of non-Harris stockholders to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval will be limited. Harris’ right to vote a majority of our outstanding voting stock enables it to control decisions without the consent of our other stockholders, including among others, with respect to: • our business direction and policies; • mergers or other business combinations, except until January 26, 2009; • the acquisition or disposition of assets; • the payment or nonpayment of dividends; • determinations with respect to tax returns; • our capital structure; and • amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. In addition to the effects described above, Harris’ control position could make it more difficult for us to raise capital or make acquisitions by issuing our capital stock. This concentrated ownership also might delay or prevent a change in control and may impede or prevent transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. 17 Table of Contents We may have potential conflicts of interest with Harris relating to our ongoing relationship, and because of Harris’ controlling ownership in us, the resolution of these conflicts may not be favorable to us. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and Harris in a number of areas relating to our ongoing relationship, including: • indemnification and other matters arising under the Formation, Contribution and Merger Agreement or other agreements; • intellectual property matters; • employee recruiting and retention; • competition for customers in the areas where Harris is permitted to do business under the non-competition agreement described below; • sales or distributions by Harris of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us, which could be to one of our competitors; • business combinations involving us; and • business opportunities that may be attractive to both Harris and us. In addition, we may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts with Harris, and, even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. We have an investor agreement and non-competition agreement with Harris. The investor agreement provides that Harris and its affiliates are only permitted to enter into a transaction with us if the transaction is approved by a majority of our non-Harris-appointed directors or the terms are, in all material respects, no less favorable to us than those that could have been obtained from an informed, unrelated third party (taking into consideration all the then prevailing facts and circumstances). However, if a transaction has a fair market value of more than $5 million, it must be approved in advance by a majority of our non-Harris-appointed directors, regardless of the nature of the terms. There are limited exceptions to these arrangements. Pursuant to the terms of the non-competition agreement, Harris has agreed in general terms that, for five years following January 26, 2007, it cannot and will not permit any of its subsidiaries (other than us and our subsidiaries) to, engage in the development, manufacture, distribution and sale of microwave radio systems that are competitive with our current products or substantially similar to those products in form, fit and function when used in terrestrial microwave point-to-point communications networks that provide access and trunking of voice and data for telecommunications networks. Notwithstanding this restriction, Harris is permitted to purchase and resell products produced by and branded by persons unaffiliated with Harris and to develop, manufacture, distribute and sell microwave radios and related components for use by government entities. We are and will continue to be a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules and, as a result, rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that are designed to provide protection to shareholders of companies that trade on NASDAQ. Harris owns more than 50% of the total voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Therefore, we are a “controlled company” under the NASDAQ rules. As a controlled company, we are entitled to utilize exemptions under the NASDAQ standards that free us from the obligation to comply with some governance requirements under the NASDAQ rules, including the following: • a majority of our board of directors consists of independent directors; • our director nominees must either be selected, or recommended for selection by the board of directors, either by: • a majority of the independent directors; or • a nominations committee comprised solely of independent directors; and 18 Table of Contents • the compensation of our officers must be determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, either by: • a majority of the independent directors; or • a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. Although a majority of our board of directors currently consists of independent directors and our compensation committee, which recommends the compensation of our officers to the board of directors, is comprised solely of independent directors, we may use these exemptions in the future and, as a result, may not provide the same protection afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. So long as Harris holds a majority of our securities outstanding and is entitled to vote generally in the election of our directors (other than those directors elected separately as a class by Harris), it will have the right to preserve its control position by participating in our equity offerings. At any time that Harris holds a majority of our securities outstanding and entitled to vote generally in the election of our directors (other than those directors elected separately as a class by Harris), subject to limited exceptions, Harris has the right to participate in any offering of our capital stock including grants of equity to employees on the same terms and conditions as the offering and purchase up to that number of shares of our capital stock necessary to preserve its then voting percentage. As a result, Harris will be able to maintain its control position as long as it is able to and elects to participate in any offering of our capital stock. Neither Harris nor any of its affiliates will have any fiduciary obligation or other obligation to offer corporate opportunities to us, and our certificate of incorporation and investor agreement with Harris expressly permit certain of our directors and our employees to offer certain corporate opportunities to Harris before us. Our certificate of incorporation and the investor agreement with Harris provide that: • except (1) as otherwise provided in the non-competition agreement with Harris or (2) opportunities offered to an individual who is a director or officer of both Harris Stratex and Harris in writing solely in that person’s capacity as our officer or director, Harris is free to compete with us in any activity or line of business; invest or develop a business relationship with any person engaged in the same or similar activities or businesses as us; do business with any of our customers; or employ any of our former employees; • neither Harris nor its affiliates have any duty to communicate its or their knowledge of or offer any potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter to us unless the opportunity was offered to the individual who is a director or officer of both Harris Stratex and Harris in writing solely in that person’s capacity as our officer or director; and • if any director or officer of Harris, who is also an officer or director of Harris Stratex, becomes aware of a potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter (other than one expressly offered to that director or officer in writing solely in his or her capacity as our director or officer), that director or officer will have no duty to communicate or offer that opportunity to us and will be permitted to communicate or offer that opportunity to Harris (or its affiliates), and that director or officer will not be deemed to have acted in bad faith or in a manner inconsistent with our best interests or in a manner inconsistent with his or her fiduciary or other duties to us. Two members of our board of directors are also directors and/or officers of Harris. As a result, Harris may gain the benefit of corporate opportunities that are presented to these directors. In certain circumstances, Harris is permitted to engage in the same types of businesses that we conduct. If Harris elects to pursue opportunities in these areas, our ability to successfully operate and expand our business may be limited. We have a non-competition agreement with Harris restricting its and its subsidiaries’ ability to compete with us for five years from January 26, 2007 in specified lines of business related to our current business operations. 19 Table of Contents However, the non-competition agreement will not restrict Harris from competing in a limited number of specific areas in which we operate, such as the development, manufacture and sale of wireless systems for use by government entities and the purchase and resale of non-Harris-branded wireless systems. Following the five-year term, there will be no restriction on Harris’ ability to compete with us. If Harris elects to pursue opportunities in these areas or re-enters the business from which it is prohibited following the five-year term of the non-competition agreement, our ability to successfully operate and expand our business may be limited. Sales by Harris of its interest in us could result in offers for shares of Class A common stock, the terms of which have been negotiated solely by Harris, and could adversely affect the price and liquidity of our Class A common stock. Harris has agreed not to buy or sell our common stock until January 26, 2009, except with the consent of our non-Harris directors or to enable Harris to preserve its percentage interest in our outstanding common stock. From January 26, 2009 to January 26, 2011, Harris will be free to transfer majority control of us to a buyer, at a price and on terms acceptable to Harris in its sole discretion so long as the buyer offers to acquire all our outstanding voting shares not owned by Harris on the same terms offered to Harris or the non-Harris directors approve the transfer by Harris in advance. However, our non-Harris stockholders will have no role in determining the identity of the buyer and the amount and type of consideration to be received or any other terms of the transaction. If equity securities of the buyer are offered or if our other shareholders elect not to accept the buyer’s offer, their continuing investment would be in a company that may be majority-controlled by a company or an investor selected only by Harris. After January 26, 2011, Harris will no longer be subject to any contractual limitations on the sale of its interest in Harris Stratex. In addition, we have agreed to register for resale to the public shares of common stock which are held by Harris. Sales of our registered shares by Harris, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the trading price of our Class A common stock. Other Risks We may not be profitable. As measured under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”), we have incurred a net loss in each of the last five fiscal years. In fiscal 2007, we incurred a net loss of $17.9 million and in fiscal 2006, we incurred a net loss of $35.8 million. We can give no assurance that we will be consistently profitable, if at all. We will face strong competition for maintaining and improving our position in the market, which could adversely affect our revenue growth and operating results. The wireless interconnection and access business is a specialized segment of the wireless telecommunications industry and is extremely competitive. We expect competition in this segment to increase. Some of our competitors have more extensive engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities and significantly greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. In addition, some of our competitors have greater name recognition, broader product lines, a larger installed base of products and longer-standing customer relationships. Our competitors include established companies, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Eltek ASA, Ericsson, NEC and Nokia Siemens Networks, as well as a number of smaller public companies and private companies in selected markets. Some of our competitors are original equipment manufacturers or systems integrators through whom we market and sell our products, which means our business success may depend on these competitors to some extent. One or more of our largest customers could internally develop the capability to manufacture products similar to those manufactured or outsourced by us and, as a result, the demand for our products and services may decrease. In addition, we compete for acquisition and expansion opportunities with many entities that have substantially greater resources than we have. Furthermore, our competitors may enter into business combinations in order to accelerate product development or to engage in aggressive price reductions or other competitive practices, resulting in even more powerful or aggressive competitors. 20 Table of Contents Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors, including price, quality, availability, customer service and support, breadth of product line, product performance and features, rapid time-to-market delivery capabilities, reliability, timing of new product introductions by us, our customers and competitors, the ability of our customers to obtain financing and the stability of regional sociopolitical and geopolitical circumstances. We can give no assurances that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, or marketing, sales, distribution, customer service and support capabilities to compete successfully, or that regional sociopolitical and geographic circumstances will be favorable for our successful operation. If we do not successfully market our newest products, TRuepoint and Eclipse, our business would be harmed. In 2004, Stratex began commercial shipments of the Eclipse product. Eclipse is a wireless transmission platform that uses a nodal architecture to provide multiplexing, routing and cross-connection functions, in addition to radio transmission, to reduce the network operators’ deployments costs. To a large extent, our future profitability depends on the continued success and price competitiveness of Eclipse. In fiscal years 2005 and 2006, Stratex recorded $39.6 million and $134.5 million of revenue from sales of Eclipse products. In fiscal 2007, we recorded $105.9 million in revenue during the five month period ended June 29, 2007 and Stratex recorded $108.1 million in revenue during the seven month period ended January 26, 2007, for a total of $214.0 million in revenue from sales of Eclipse products during our fiscal year 2007. In 2004, Harris MCD began shipping TRuepoint products. To a large extent, our future profitability depends on the continued success of TRuepoint, especially in the North American market and worldwide high-capacity trunking markets. Because TRuepoint represents a new, innovative solution for wireless carriers, we cannot give assurances that we will be able to continue to successfully market this product. If TRuepoint does not achieve market acceptance to the extent expected by us, we may not be able to recoup the significant amount of research and development expenses associated with the development and introduction of this product and our business could be negatively impacted. Should the continued development and ramp-up of the TRuepoint platform be unsuccessful, there would be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our average sales prices may decline in the future. Currently, manufacturers of digital microwave telecommunications equipment are experiencing, and are likely to continue to experience, declining sales prices. This price pressure is likely to result in downward pricing pressure on our products and services. As a result, we are likely to experience declining average sales prices for our products. Our future profitability will depend upon our ability to improve manufacturing efficiencies, reduce costs of materials used in our products, and to continue to introduce new lower-cost products and product enhancements. If we are unable to respond to increased price competition, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. Because customers frequently negotiate supply arrangements far in advance of delivery dates, we may be required to commit to price reductions for our products before we are aware of how, or if, cost reductions can be obtained. As a result, current or future price reduction commitments, and any inability on our part to respond to increased price competition, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because a significant amount of our revenue may come from a limited number of customers, the termination of any of these customer relationships may adversely affect our business. Sales of our products and services historically have been concentrated in a small number of customers. Principal customers for our products and services include domestic and international wireless/mobile service providers, original equipment manufacturers, as well as private network users such as public safety agencies; government institutions; and utility, pipeline, railroad and other industrial enterprises that operate broadband wireless networks. We had revenue from a single external customer that exceeded 10% of our total revenue during fiscal 2006, but not during fiscal 2007. Although we have a large customer base, during any given quarter, a small number of customers may account for a significant portion of our revenue. It is possible that a significant portion of our future product sales also could be concentrated in a limited number of customers. In addition, product sales to major customers have varied widely from period to period. The 21 Table of Contents loss of any existing customer, a significant reduction in the level of sales to any existing customer, or our inability to gain additional customers could result in declines in our revenue or an inability to grow revenue. If these revenue declines occur or if we are unable to create revenue growth, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may be subject to litigation regarding intellectual property associated with our wireless business; this litigation could be costly to defend and resolve, and could prevent us from using or selling the challenged technology. The wireless telecommunications industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Such litigation or claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the use and transfer of allegedly infringing technology or the sale of allegedly infringing products and expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses for the infringing technology. We can give no assurances that we would be successful in developing such non-infringing technology or that any license for the infringing technology would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. This could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition, competitive position and prospects. As a subsidiary of Harris, we may have the benefit of one or more existing cross-license agreements between Harris and certain third parties, which may help protect us from infringement claims. If we cease to be a subsidiary of Harris, those benefits will be lost. Due to the significant volume of international sales we expect, we may be susceptible to a number of political, economic and geographic risks that could harm our business. We are highly dependent on sales to customers outside the U.S. In fiscal 2007, our sales to international customers accounted for 67% of total revenue. During fiscal 2006 and 2005, sales to international customers accounted for 55% and 51% of our revenue, respectively. Our dependence on international customers is expected to increase, due to our merger with Stratex, since approximately 95% of its revenue has historically been derived from international markets. Also, significant portions of our international sales are in less developed countries. Our international sales are likely to continue to account for a large percentage of our products and services revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, the occurrence of any international, political, economic or geographic event that adversely affects our business could result in a significant decline in revenue. Some of the risks and challenges of doing business internationally include: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • fluctuations in international currency exchange rates; • imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; • management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; • the burden of complying with a variety of laws and regulations in various countries; • application of the income tax laws and regulations of multiple jurisdictions, including relatively low-rate and relatively high-rate jurisdictions, to our sales and other transactions, which results in additional complexity and uncertainty; • general economic and geopolitical conditions, including inflation and trade relationships; • war and acts of terrorism; • natural disasters; 22 Table of Contents • currency exchange controls; and • changes in export regulations. Our industry is volatile and subject to frequent changes, and we may not be able to respond effectively or in a timely manner to these changes. We participate in a highly volatile industry that is characterized by vigorous competition for market share and rapid technological development. These factors could result in aggressive pricing practices and growing competition both from start-up companies and from well-capitalized telecommunication systems providers, which could decrease our revenue. In response to changes in our industry and market conditions, we may restructure our activities to more strategically realign our resources. This includes assessing whether we should consider disposing of, or otherwise exiting, certain businesses, and reviewing the recoverability of our tangible and intangible assets. Any decision to limit investment in our tangible and intangible assets or to dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of accrued liabilities for special charges, such as workforce reduction costs. Additionally, accounting estimates with respect to the useful life and ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets could change as a result of such assessments and decisions, and could harm our results of operations. If we fail to develop and maintain distribution and licensing relationships, our revenue may decrease. Although a majority of our sales are made through our direct sales force, we also will market our products through indirect sales channels such as independent agents, distributors, OEMs and systems integrators. These relationships enhance our ability to pursue major contract awards and, in some cases, are intended to provide our customers with easier access to financing and a greater variety of equipment and service capabilities, which an integrated system provider should be able to offer. We may not be able to maintain and develop additional relationships or, if additional relationships are developed, they may not be successful. Our inability to establish or maintain these distribution and licensing relationships could restrict our ability to market our products and thereby result in significant reductions in revenue. If these revenue reductions occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. The inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver materials, could cause our products to be produced in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner, or not at all. Our manufacturing operations, which are substantially subcontracted, are highly dependent upon the delivery of materials by outside suppliers in a timely manner. Also, we depend in part upon subcontractors to assemble major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner. We generally do not enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with any of our suppliers, and we cannot provide assurances that such materials, components and subsystems will be available for our use at such time and in such quantities as we require, if at all. In addition, we have historically obtained some of our supplies from a single source. If these suppliers are unable to provide supplies and products to us because they are no longer in business or because they discontinue a certain supply or product we need, we may not be able to fill orders placed by our customers on a timely basis or at all. Our inability to develop alternative sources of supply quickly and on a cost-effective basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and timely deliver our products to our customers. We cannot give assurances that we will not experience material supply problems or component or subsystem delays in the future. Also, our subcontractors may not be able to maintain the quality of our products, which might result in a large number of product returns by customers and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks associated with the outsourcing of our manufacturing operations to MTI in Taiwan and its subsidiary in the People’s Republic of China could include, among other things: political risks due to political issues between Taiwan and The People’s Republic of China; risk of natural disasters in Taiwan, such as earthquakes and typhoons; economic and regulatory developments; and other events leading to the disruption of manufacturing operations. 23 Table of Contents Consolidation within the telecommunications industry could result in a decrease in our revenue. The telecommunications industry has experienced significant consolidation among its participants, and we expect this trend to continue. Some operators in this industry have experienced financial difficulty and have filed, or may file, for bankruptcy protection. Other operators may merge and one or more of our competitors may supply products to the customers of the combined company following those mergers. This consolidation could result in purchasing decision delays and decreased opportunities for us to supply products to companies following any consolidation. This consolidation may also result in lost opportunities for cost reduction and economies of scale. In addition, see the risks discussed in the factor above titled “Because a significant amount of our revenue may come from a limited number of customers, the termination of any of these customer relationships may adversely affect our business.” Our success will depend on new product introductions and acceptance. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. Our future success will depend, in part, on continuous, timely development and introduction of new products and enhancements that address evolving market requirements and are attractive to customers. We believe that successful new product introductions provide a significant competitive advantage because of the significant resources committed by customers in adopting new products and their reluctance to change products after these resources have been expended. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, significant resources on internal research and development to support our effort to develop and introduce new products and enhancements. To the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products that are adopted by customers, we could fail to obtain an adequate return on these investments and could lose market share to our competitors, which could be difficult or impossible to regain. Our customers may not pay for products and services in a timely manner, or at all, which would decrease our income and adversely affect our working capital. Our business requires extensive credit risk management that may not be adequate to protect against customer nonpayment. Risks of non-payment by customers is a significant focus of our business. We expect a significant amount of future revenue to come from international customers, many of whom will be startup telecom operators in developing countries. We do not generally expect to obtain collateral for sales, although we require letters of credit or credit insurance as appropriate for international customers. For information regarding the percentage of revenue attributable to certain key customers, see the risks discussed in the factor above titled “Because a significant amount of our revenue come from a limited number of customers, the termination of any of these customer relationships may adversely affect our business.” Our historical accounts receivable balances have been concentrated in a small number of significant customers. Unexpected adverse events impacting the financial condition of our customers, bank failures or other unfavorable regulatory, economic or political events in the countries in which we do business may impact collections and adversely impact our business, require increased bad debt expense or receivable write-offs and adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and operating results. Rapid changes in the microwave radio industry and the frequent introduction of lower cost components for our product offerings may result in excess inventory that we cannot sell or may be required to sell at distressed prices, and may result in longer credit terms to our customers. The rapid changes and evolving industry standards that characterize the market for our products require frequent modification of products for us to be successful. These rapid changes could result in the accumulation of component inventory parts that become obsolete as modified products are introduced and adopted by customers. We have experienced significant inventory write-offs in recent years, and because of the rapid changes that characterize the market, we also may be forced to write down excess inventory from time to time. Moreover, these same factors may force us to significantly reduce prices for older products or extend more and longer credit terms to customers, which could negatively impact our cash and possibly result in higher bad debt expense. More generally, we cannot give assurances that we will be successful in matching our inventory purchases with anticipated shipment volumes. As a result, we may fail to control the amount of inventory on hand and may be forced to write off additional 24 Table of Contents amounts. Such additional inventory write-offs, if required, would adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and operating results. The unpredictability of our quarter-to-quarter results may harm the trading price of our Class A common stock. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside our control. These factors could harm our business and include, among others: • volume and timing of our product orders received and delivered during the quarter; • our ability and the ability of our key suppliers to respond to changes on demand as needed; • our suppliers’ inability to perform and deliver on time as a result of their financial condition, component shortages or other supply chain constraints; • our sales cycles can be lengthy; • continued market expansion through strategic alliances; • continued timely rollout of new product functionality and features; • increased competition resulting in downward pressures on the price of our products and services; • unexpected delays in the schedule for shipments of existing products and new generations of the existing platforms; • failure to realize expected cost improvement throughout our supply chain; • order cancellations or postponements in product deliveries resulting in delayed revenue recognition; • seasonality in the purchasing habits of our customers; • war and acts of terrorism; • natural disasters; • the ability of our customers to obtain financing to enable their purchase of our products; • fluctuations in international currency exchange rates; • regulatory developments including denial of export and import licenses; and • general economic conditions worldwide. Our quarterly results are expected to be difficult to predict and delays in product delivery or closing a sale can cause revenue and net income or loss to fluctuate significantly from anticipated levels. In addition, we may increase spending in response to competition or in pursuit of new market opportunities. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to achieve profitability in the future or that if profitability is attained, that we will be able to sustain profitability, particularly on a quarter-to-quarter basis. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we may be deprived of legal recourse against those who misappropriate our intellectual property. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology in the U.S. and internationally. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents and contractual rights to protect our intellectual property. In addition, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of its proprietary information. We cannot give assurances that any steps taken by us will be adequate to deter misappropriation or impede independent third-party development of similar technologies. In the event that such intellectual property arrangements are insufficient, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We have significant operations in the U.S., United Kingdom, Singapore and New Zealand, and outsourcing arrangements in Asia. We 25 Table of Contents cannot provide assurances that the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of particular nations will be substantially similar to the protection and remedies available under U.S. law. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us based on intellectual property rights and laws in other nations that are different from those established in the U.S. If sufficient radio frequency spectrum is not allocated for use by our products, and we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our products, our ability to market our products may be restricted. Radio communications are subject to regulation by U.S. and foreign laws and international treaties. Generally, our products need to conform to a variety of United States and international requirements established to avoid interference among users of transmission frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. Any delays in compliance with respect to our future products could delay the introduction of such products. In addition, we will be affected by the allocation and auction of the radio frequency spectrum by governmental authorities both in the U.S. and internationally. Such governmental authorities may not allocate sufficient radio frequency spectrum for use by our products or we may not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for our products from these authorities. Historically, in many developed countries, the unavailability of frequency spectrum has inhibited the growth of wireless telecommunications networks. In addition, to operate in a jurisdiction, we must obtain regulatory approval for our products. Each jurisdiction in which we market our products has its own regulations governing radio communications. Products that support emerging wireless telecommunications services can be marketed in a jurisdiction only if permitted by suitable frequency allocations, auctions and regulations. The process of establishing new regulations is complex and lengthy. If we are unable to obtain sufficient allocation of radio frequency spectrum by the appropriate governmental authority or obtain the proper regulatory approval for our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. Negative changes in the capital markets available for telecommunications and mobile cellular projects may result in reduced revenue and excess inventory that we cannot sell or may be required to sell at distressed prices, and may result in longer credit terms to our customers. Many of our current and potential customers require significant capital funding to finance their telecommunications and mobile cellular projects, which include the purchase of our products and services. Although in the last year we have seen some growth in capital spending in the wireless telecommunications market, changes in capital markets worldwide could negatively impact available funding for these projects and may continue to be unavailable to some customers. As a result, the purchase of our products and services may be slowed or halted. Reduction in demand for our products has resulted in excess inventories on hand in the past, and could result in additional excess inventories in the future. If funding is unavailable to our customers or their customers, we may be forced to write down excess inventory. In addition, we may have to extend more and longer credit terms to our customers, which could negatively impact our cash and possibly result in higher bad debt expense. We cannot give assurances that we will be successful in matching our inventory purchases with anticipated shipment volumes. As a result, we may fail to control the amount of inventory on hand and may be forced to write off additional amounts. Such additional inventory write-offs, if required, would decrease our profits. In addition, in order to maintain competitiveness in an environment of restrictive third-party financing, we may have to offer customer financing that is recorded on our balance sheet. This may result in deferred revenue recognition, additional credit risk and substantial cash usage. Our stock price may be volatile, which may lead to losses by investors. Announcements of developments related to our business, announcements by competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and general conditions in the telecommunications industry in which we compete, or the economies of the countries in which we do business and other factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. These factors 26 Table of Contents and fluctuations could lower the market price of our common stock. Our stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our stock price. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Pursuant to Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (also known as the SOX Act), and beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending June 27, 2008, our management will be required to certify to and report on, and its independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of June 27, 2008. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our operating results could be misstated, our reputation may be harmed and the trading price of our stock could be negatively impacted. As described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Stratex’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006, as amended, Stratex determined there were two material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”). In general, a “material weakness” (as defined in PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 2) is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. In fiscal 2006, Stratex devoted significant resources to remediate and improve its internal controls related to these material weaknesses. Stratex believes that these efforts have remediated the concerns that gave rise to the “material weakness” related to revenue recognition. However, due to the assessment of Stratex’s internal controls over financial reporting as of March 31, 2006, Stratex had identified the continuation of a material weakness in the review of the financial statements of international operations and the period-end financial close and reporting process for Stratex’s consolidated operations. Historically, Harris has only been required to certify or report on or receive an attestation from its independent registered public accounting firm with respect to Harris, taken as a whole, and not MCD in particular. We are currently in the process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting. We will continue reviewing our internal controls over the financial close and reporting process, and will implement additional controls as needed. However, we cannot be certain that our controls over our financial processes and reporting will be adequate in the future, and we may incur significant additional expenses in complying with these provisions of the SOX Act. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could cause us to prepare inaccurate financial statements, subject us to a misappropriation of assets or cause us to fail to meet our SEC reporting obligations on a timely basis, which could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 