Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Competition TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could affect its future results of operations. TWC’s industry is and will continue to be highly competitive. Some of TWC’s principal competitors — in particular, direct broadcast satellite operators and incumbent local telephone companies — either offer or are making significant capital investments that will allow them to offer services that provide directly comparable features and functions to those TWC offers, and they are aggressively seeking to offer them in bundles similar to TWC’s. 32 Table of Contents Incumbent local telephone companies have recently increased their efforts to provide video services. The two major incumbent local telephone companies — AT&T and Verizon — have both announced that they intend to make fiber upgrades of their networks, although each is using a different architecture. AT&T is expected to utilize one of a number of fiber architectures, including FTTN, and Verizon utilizes a fiber architecture known as FTTH. Some upgraded portions of these networks are or will be capable of carrying two-way video services that are technically comparable to TWC’s, high-speed data services that operate at speeds as high or higher than those TWC makes available to customers in these areas and digital voice services that are similar to TWC’s. In addition, these companies continue to offer their traditional phone services as well as bundles that include wireless voice services provided by affiliated companies. In areas where they have launched video services, these parties are aggressively marketing video, voice and data bundles at entry level prices similar to those TWC uses to market its bundles. TWC’s video business faces intense competition from direct broadcast satellite providers. These providers compete with TWC based on aggressive promotional pricing and exclusive programming (e.g., “NFL Sunday Ticket,” which is not available to cable operators). Direct broadcast satellite programming is comparable in many respects to TWC’s analog and digital video services, including TWC’s DVR service. In addition, the two largest direct broadcast satellite providers offer some interactive programming features. These providers are working to increase the number of HDTV channels they offer in order to differentiate their service from services offered by cable operators. In some areas, incumbent local telephone companies and direct broadcast satellite operators have entered into co-marketing arrangements that allow both parties to offer synthetic bundles (i.e., video services provided principally by the direct broadcast satellite operator, and DSL and traditional phone service offered by the telephone companies). From a consumer standpoint, the synthetic bundles appear similar to TWC’s bundles and result in a single bill. AT&T is offering a service in some areas that utilizes direct broadcast satellite video but in an integrated package with AT&T’s DSL product, which enables an Internet-based return path that allows the user to order a VOD-like product and other services that TWC provides using its two-way network. TWC operates its cable systems under non-exclusive franchises granted by state or local authorities. The existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is referred to as an “overbuild.” In some of TWC’s operating areas, other operators have overbuilt TWC’s systems and offer video, data and/or voice services in competition with TWC. In addition to these competitors, TWC faces competition on individual services from a range of competitors. For instance, TWC’s video service faces competition from providers of paid television services (such as satellite master antenna services) and from video delivered over the Internet. TWC’s high-speed data service faces competition from, among others, incumbent local telephone companies utilizing their newly-upgraded fiber networks and/or DSL lines, Wi-Fi, Wi-Max and 3G wireless broadband services provided by mobile carriers such as Verizon Wireless, broadband over power line providers, and from providers of traditional dial-up Internet access. TWC’s voice service faces competition for voice customers from incumbent local telephone companies, cellular telephone service providers, Internet phone providers, such as Vonage, and others. Any inability to compete effectively or an increase in competition with respect to video, voice or high-speed data services could have an adverse effect on TWC’s financial results and return on capital expenditures due to possible increases in the cost of gaining and retaining subscribers and lower per subscriber revenue, could slow or cause a decline in TWC’s growth rates, reduce its revenues, reduce the number of its subscribers or reduce its ability to increase penetration rates for services. As TWC expands and introduces new and enhanced products and services, TWC may be subject to competition from other providers of those products and services, such as telecommunications providers, ISPs and consumer electronics companies, among others. TWC cannot predict the extent to which this competition will affect its future financial results or return on capital expenditures. Future advances in technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and in the regulatory and legislative environments, may result in changes to the competitive landscape. For additional information regarding the regulatory and legal environment, see “— Risks Related to Government Regulation” and Item 1, “Business — Regulatory Matters.” 33 Table of Contents TWC operates its cable systems under franchises that are non-exclusive. State and local franchising authorities can grant additional franchises and foster additional competition. TWC’s cable systems are constructed and operated under non-exclusive franchises granted by state or local governmental authorities. Federal law prohibits franchising authorities from unreasonably denying requests for additional franchises. Consequently, competing operators may build systems in areas in which TWC holds franchises. In the past, competing operators — most of them relatively small — have obtained such franchises and offered competing services in some areas in which TWC holds franchises. More recently, incumbent local telephone companies with significant resources, particularly Verizon and AT&T, have obtained or have sought to obtain such franchises in connection with or in preparation for offering of video, high speed data and digital voice services in some of TWC’s service areas. See “— TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could affect its future results of operations” above. The existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is referred to as an “overbuild.” TWC faces competition from incumbent local telephone companies and other overbuilders in many of the areas it serves, including within each of its five major geographic operating areas. In New York City, TWC faces competition from Verizon and another overbuilder, RCN Corporation (“RCN”). In upstate New York, overbuild activity is focused primarily in the Binghamton and Rochester areas, where competitors include Delhi Telephone and Empire Video Corporation, respectively. In the Carolinas, a number of local telephone companies, including Horry Telephone Cooperative, Southern Coastal Cable and Knology, are offering competing services, principally in South Carolina. TWC’s Ohio operations face competition from local telephone companies such as New Knoxville Telephone Company, Wide Open West, Telephone Service Company and Columbus Grove Telephone Company. Recently, AT&T was granted franchises in the Columbus area. There is also local telephone company and other overbuild competition in TWC’s Texas region in the areas of Dallas, San Antonio, Waco, Austin and other areas in south and west Texas that TWC serves. Competing providers include FISION, Grande Communications, Wide Open West, and Western Integrated Networks. AT&T and Verizon have also been granted state-issued franchises in Texas. In southern California, TWC faces competition from RCN, AT&T and Verizon. Additional overbuild situations may occur in these and TWC’s other operating areas. In particular, Verizon and AT&T have both indicated that they will continue to upgrade their networks to enable the delivery of video and high-speed data services, in addition to their existing telephone services. In addition, companies that traditionally have not provided cable services and that have substantial financial resources may also decide to obtain franchises and seek to provide competing services. Increased competition from any source, including overbuilders, could require TWC to charge lower prices for existing or future services than it otherwise might or require TWC to invest in or otherwise obtain additional services more quickly or at higher costs than it otherwise might. These actions, or the failure to take steps to allow TWC to compete effectively, could adversely affect TWC’s growth, financial condition and results of operations. TWC faces risks relating to competition for the leisure and entertainment time of audiences, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, TWC’s business is subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. TWC’s business competes with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, print media and the Internet. Technological advancements, such as VOD, new video formats, and Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could negatively impact not only consumer demand for TWC’s products and services, but also advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from TWC. If TWC does not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, its competitive position could deteriorate, and its financial results could suffer. Significant increases in the use of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services could increase TWC’s costs. 34 Table of Contents The rising popularity of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services poses special risks for TWC’s high-speed data business. Examples of such services include peer-to-peer file sharing services, gaming services, the delivery of video via streaming technology and by download, as well as Internet phone services. If heavy usage of bandwidth-intensive services grows beyond TWC’s current expectations, it may need to invest more capital than currently anticipated to expand the bandwidth capacity of its systems or its customers may have a suboptimal experience when using its high-speed data service. TWC’s ability to manage its network efficiently could be restricted by legislative efforts to impose so-called “net neutrality” requirements on cable operators. See “— Risks Related to Government Regulation — TWC’s business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could adversely affect its business.” TWC’s competitive position could suffer if TWC is unable to develop a compelling wireless offering. TWC offers high-quality information, entertainment and communication services over sophisticated broadband cable networks. TWC believes these networks currently provide the most efficient means to provide such services to consumers’ homes. However, consumers are increasingly interested in accessing information, entertainment and communication services outside the home as well. TWC is exploring various means by which it can offer its customers mobile services but there can be no assurance that TWC will be successful in doing so or that any such services it offers will appeal to consumers. In November 2005, TWC and several other cable operators, together with Sprint, announced the formation of a joint venture that would develop integrated cable and wireless products that the venture’s owners could offer to customers bundled with cable services. There can be no assurance that the joint venture will successfully develop any such products, that any products developed will be accepted by consumers or, even if accepted, that the offering will be profitable. A separate joint venture formed by the same parties participated in the recently completed FCC Auction 66 for Advanced Wireless Spectrum and was the winning bidder of 137 licenses. The FCC awarded these licenses to the venture on November 29, 2006. There can be no assurance that the venture will successfully develop mobile voice and related wireless services or otherwise benefit from the acquired spectrum. Until recently, TWC’s telephone competitors have only been able to include mobile services in their offerings through co-marketing relationships with affiliated wireless providers, which TWC does not believe have proven particularly compelling to consumers. However, TWC anticipates that, in the future, its competitors will either gain greater ownership of, or enter into more effective marketing arrangements with, these wireless providers. For instance, as a result of AT&T’s recent acquisition of BellSouth Corp., it has acquired 100% ownership of Cingular Wireless, LLC, a wireless provider of which AT&T previously owned 60%. If TWC’s competitors begin to expand their service bundles to include compelling mobile features before TWC has developed an equivalent or more compelling offering, TWC may not be in a position to provide a competitive product offering and its business and financial results could suffer. If TWC pursues wireless strategies intended to provide it with a competitive response to offerings such as those described above, there can be no assurance that such strategies will succeed. For instance, TWC could, in pursuing such a strategy, select technologies, products and services that fail to appeal to consumers. In addition, TWC could incur significant costs in gaining access to, developing and marketing, such services. If TWC incurred such costs, and the resulting products and services were not competitive with other parties’ products or appealing to TWC’s customers, its business and financial results could suffer. Additional Risks of TWC’s Operations TWC’s business is characterized by rapid technological change, and if TWC does not respond appropriately to technological changes, its competitive position may be harmed. TWC operates in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment and is, to a large extent, dependent on its ability to acquire, develop, adopt and exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish its services from those of its competitors. This may take long periods of time and require significant capital investments. In addition, TWC may be required to anticipate far in advance which technologies and equipment it should adopt for new products and services or for future enhancements of or upgrades to its existing products and services. If TWC chooses technologies or equipment that are less effective, cost-efficient or attractive to its 35 Table of Contents customers than those chosen by its competitors, or if TWC offers products or services that fail to appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices or that do not function as expected, its competitive position could deteriorate, and its business and financial results could suffer. TWC’s competitive position also may be adversely affected by various timing factors, such as the ability of its competitors to acquire or develop and introduce new technologies, products and services more quickly than it does. Furthermore, advances in technology, decreases in the cost of existing technologies or changes in competitors’ product and service offerings also may require TWC in the future to make additional research and development expenditures or to offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain products and services it currently offers to customers separately or at a premium. In addition, the uncertainty of the costs for obtaining intellectual property rights from third parties could impact TWC’s ability to respond to technological advances in a timely manner. The combination of increased competition, more technologically advanced platforms, products and services, the increasing number of choices available to consumers and the overall rate of change in media and entertainment industries requires companies such as TWC to become more responsive to consumer needs and to adapt more quickly to market conditions than has been necessary in the past. TWC could have difficulty managing these changes while at the same time maintaining its rates of growth and profitability. TWC faces certain challenges relating to the integration of the systems acquired in the Transactions into its existing systems and TWC may not realize the anticipated benefits of the Transactions. The Transactions have combined cable systems that were previously owned and operated by three different companies. TWC expects that it will realize cost savings and other financial and operating benefits as a result of the Transactions. However, due to the complexity of and risks relating to the integration of these systems, among other factors, TWC cannot predict with certainty when these cost savings and benefits will occur or the extent to which they actually will be achieved, if at all. The successful integration of the Acquired Systems will depend primarily on TWC’s ability to manage the combined operations and integrate into its operations the Acquired Systems (including management information, marketing, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, customer support and product distribution infrastructure, personnel, payroll and benefits, regulatory compliance and technology systems). The integration of these systems, including the upgrade of certain portions of the Acquired Systems, requires significant capital expenditures and may require TWC to use financial resources it would otherwise devote to other business initiatives, including marketing, customer care, the development of new products and services and the expansion of its existing cable systems. While TWC has planned for certain capital expenditures for, among other things, improvements to plant and technical performance and upgrading system capacity of the Acquired Systems, TWC may be required to spend more than anticipated for those purposes. Furthermore, these integration efforts may require more attention from TWC’s management and impose greater strains on its technical resources than anticipated. If TWC fails to successfully integrate the Acquired Systems, it could have a material adverse effect on TWC’s business and financial results. Additionally, to the extent TWC encounters significant difficulties in integrating systems or other operations, TWC’s customer care efforts may be hampered. For instance, TWC may experience higher-than-normal call volumes under such circumstances, which might interfere with its ability to take orders, assist customers not impacted by the integration difficulties, and conduct other ordinary course activities. In addition, depending on the scope of the difficulties, TWC may be the subject of negative press reports or customer perception. TWC has transitional services arrangements with Comcast under which Comcast has agreed to assist TWC by providing certain services to applicable Acquired Systems as TWC integrates those systems into its existing systems. Any failure by Comcast to perform under its agreements may cause the integration of the applicable Acquired Systems to be delayed and may increase the amount of time and money TWC needs to devote to the integration of the applicable Acquired Systems. TWC faces risks inherent to its voice services business. TWC may encounter unforeseen difficulties as it introduces its voice services in new operating areas, including the Acquired Systems, and/or increases the scale of its voice service offerings in areas in which they have already 36 Table of Contents been launched. First, TWC faces heightened customer expectations for the reliability of voice services as compared with its video and high-speed data services. TWC has undertaken significant training of customer service representatives and technicians, and it will continue to need a highly trained workforce. To ensure reliable service, TWC may need to increase its expenditures, including spending on technology, equipment and personnel. If the service is not sufficiently reliable or TWC otherwise fails to meet customer expectations, its voice services business could be adversely affected. Second, the competitive landscape for voice services is intense; TWC faces competition from providers of Internet phone services, as well as incumbent local telephone companies, cellular telephone service providers and others. See “— Risks Related to Competition — TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could affect its future results of operations.” Third, TWC’s voice services depend on interconnection and related services provided by certain third parties. As a result, TWC’s ability to implement changes as the service grows may be limited. Finally, TWC expects advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the regulatory and legislative environment. Consequently, TWC is unable to predict the effect that ongoing or future developments in these areas might have on its voice services business and operations. In addition, TWC’s launch of voice services in the Acquired Systems may pose certain risks. TWC will be unable to provide its voice services in some of the Acquired Systems without first upgrading the facilities. Additionally, TWC may need to obtain certain services from third parties prior to deploying voice services in the Acquired Systems. If TWC encounters difficulties or significant delays in launching voice services in the Acquired Systems, its business and financial results may be adversely affected. TWC’s ability to attract new basic video subscribers is dependent in part on growth in new housing in its service areas. Providing basic video services is an established and highly penetrated business. Approximately 85% of U.S. households are now receiving multi-channel video service. As a result, TWC’s ability to achieve incremental growth in basic video subscribers is dependent in part on growth in new housing in its service areas, which is influenced by various factors outside of TWC’s control, including both national and local economic conditions. If growth in new housing falls or if there are population declines in TWC’s operating areas, opportunities to gain new basic subscribers will decrease, which may have a material adverse effect on TWC’s growth, business and financial results or financial condition. TWC relies on network and information systems and other technology, and a disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental releases of information or similar events, may disrupt TWC’s business. Because network and information systems and other technologies are critical to TWC’s operating activities, network or information system shutdowns caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and similar events, pose increasing risks. Such an event could have an adverse impact on TWC and its customers, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to equipment and data. Such an event also could result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of TWC’s operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers and revenues. Furthermore, TWC’s operating activities could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in TWC’s information technology systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data. TWC could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage its reputation and credibility. TWC also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection and security of 37 Table of Contents personal information, information-related risks are increasing, particularly for businesses like TWC’s that handle a large amount of personal customer data. If TWC is unable to retain senior executives and attract and retain other qualified employees, its growth might be hindered, which could impede TWC’s ability to run its business and potentially reduce its revenues and profitability. TWC’s success depends in part on its ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, sales, customer service and marketing personnel. TWC faces significant competition for these types of personnel. TWC may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the required personnel to conduct and expand its operations successfully and, in such an event, its revenues and profitability could decline. TWC’s success also depends to a significant extent on the continued service of its senior management team, including Messrs. Britt and Hobbs, with whom TWC has employment agreements. The loss of any member of TWC’s senior management team or other qualified employees could impair TWC’s ability to execute its business plan and growth strategy, cause TWC to lose subscribers and reduce its net sales, or lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of key employees. In addition, key personnel may leave TWC and compete against it. TWC’s business may be adversely affected if it cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which its business depends. TWC relies on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses and other agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers, and other parties, to establish and maintain its intellectual property rights in technology and the products and services used in TWC’s operations. However, any of TWC’s intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit TWC to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm. Additionally, from time to time TWC receives notices from others claiming that it infringes their intellectual property rights, and the number of these claims could increase in the future. Claims of intellectual property infringement could require TWC to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, which could require TWC to change its business practices and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even if TWC believes that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from TWC’s businesses. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change, TWC relies on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and TWC may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, if at all. See also “— Risks Related to TWC’s Relationship with Time Warner — TWC is party to agreements with Time Warner governing the use of TWC’s brand names, including the “Time Warner Cable” brand name, that may be terminated by Time Warner if TWC fails to perform its obligations under those agreements or if it undergoes a change of control.” The accounting treatment of goodwill and other identified intangibles could result in future asset impairments, which would be recorded as operating losses. As of December 31, 2006, TWC had approximately $41.0 billion of unamortized intangible assets, including goodwill of $2.1 billion and cable franchises of $38.1 billion on its balance sheet. At December 31, 2006, these intangible assets represented approximately 74% of TWC’s total assets. Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“FAS 142”) requires that goodwill, including the goodwill included in the carrying value of investments accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, such as franchise agreements, cease to be amortized. FAS 142 requires that goodwill and certain intangible assets be tested at least annually for impairment. If TWC finds that the carrying value of goodwill or a certain intangible asset exceeds its fair value, it will reduce the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset to the fair value, and will recognize an impairment loss. Any such impairment losses are required to be recorded as noncash operating losses. TWC’s 2006 annual impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter, did not result in an impairment charge. For one reporting unit, the 2006 estimated fair value was within 10% of the respective book 38 Table of Contents value. Applying a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair value of this reporting unit would result in a greater book value than fair value for cable franchises in the amount of approximately $20 million. Other intangible assets not subject to amortization are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Critical Accounting Policies — Asset Impairments — Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets” and “— Finite-lived Intangible Assets.” The impairment tests require TWC to make an estimate of the fair value of intangible assets, which is primarily determined using discounted cash flow methodologies, research analyst estimates, market comparisons and a review of recent transactions. Since a number of factors may influence determinations of fair value of intangible assets, including those set forth in this discussion of “Risk Factors,” TWC is unable to predict whether impairments of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangibles will occur in the future. Any such impairment would result in TWC recognizing a corresponding operating loss, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of its Class A common stock. The IRS and state and local tax authorities may challenge the tax characterizations of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and the Exchange, or TWC’s related valuations, and any successful challenge by the IRS or state or local tax authorities could materially adversely affect TWC’s tax profile, significantly increase TWC’s future cash tax payments and significantly reduce its future earnings and cash flow. The Adelphia Acquisition was designed to be a fully taxable asset sale, the TWC Redemption was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Tax Code”), the TWE Redemption was designed as a redemption of Comcast’s partnership interest in TWE, and the Exchange was designed as an exchange of designated cable systems. There can be no assurance, however, that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) or state or local tax authorities (collectively with the IRS, the “Tax Authorities”) will not challenge one or more of such characterizations or TWC’s related valuations. Such a successful challenge by the Tax Authorities could materially adversely affect TWC’s tax profile (including its ability to recognize the intended tax benefits from the Transactions), significantly increase TWC’s future cash tax payments and significantly reduce its future earnings and cash flow. The tax consequences of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and the Exchange are complex and, in many cases, subject to significant uncertainties, including, but not limited to, uncertainties regarding the application of federal, state and local income tax laws to various transactions and events contemplated therein and regarding matters relating to valuation. A significant portion of TWC’s indebtedness will mature over the next three to five years. If TWC is unable to refinance this indebtedness on favorable terms its financial condition and results of operations may suffer. As of December 31, 2006, TWC had $14.4 billion in long-term debt. In particular, TWC is the borrower under two $4.0 billion term loan facilities and a $6.0 billion revolving credit facility, which become due in February 2009, February 2011 and February 2011, respectively, as well as an issuer of commercial paper. In addition, TWE’s 7.25% senior debentures with a principal amount of $600 million will mature in 2008. No assurance can be given that TWC will be able to refinance its or its subsidiaries’ existing indebtedness on favorable terms, if at all. TWC’s ability to refinance its indebtedness could be affected by many factors, including adverse developments in the lending markets and other external factors which are beyond TWC’s control. If TWC is unable to refinance its indebtedness on favorable terms, its cost of financing could increase significantly and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial results and financial condition. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Financial Condition and Liquidity.” As a result of the indebtedness incurred in connection with the Transactions, TWC will be required to use an increased amount of the cash provided by its operating activities to service its debt obligations, which could limit its flexibility to grow its business and take advantage of new business opportunities. Borrowings under TWC’s bank credit agreements and commercial paper program increased from $1.1 billion at December 31, 2005 to $11.1 billion at December 31, 2006, primarily in order to fund a large portion of the cash payments made in connection with the Transactions. As a result, TWC’s obligations to make principal and interest payments related to TWC’s indebtedness have increased. TWC’s increased amount of indebtedness and debt servicing obligations will require TWC to dedicate a larger amount of its cash flow from operations to making 39 Table of Contents payments on its indebtedness than it has in the past. This reduces the availability of TWC’s cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes, may increase TWC’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, may limit TWC’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates, may limit TWC’s ability to make strategic acquisitions or pursue other business opportunities and may limit its ability to borrow additional funds and may increase the cost of any such borrowings. Risks Related to Dependence on Third Parties Increases in programming costs could adversely affect TWC’s operations, business or financial results. Programming has been, and is expected to continue to be, one of TWC’s largest operating expense items for the foreseeable future. In recent years, TWC has experienced significant increases in the cost of programming, particularly sports programming. The increases are expected to continue due to a variety of factors, including inflationary and negotiated annual increases, additional programming being provided to subscribers, and increased costs to purchase new programming. Programming cost increases that are not passed on fully to TWC’s subscribers have had, and will continue to have, an adverse impact on cash flow and operating margins. In addition, such increases could have an adverse impact on cash flow and operating margins from new video products and services. Current and future programming providers that provide content that is desirable to TWC’s subscribers may enter into exclusive affiliation agreements with TWC’s cable and non-cable competitors and may be unwilling to enter into affiliation agreements with TWC on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, increased demands by owners of some broadcast stations for carriage of other services or payments to those broadcasters for retransmission consent could further increase TWC’s programming costs. Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between “must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent” regime. When a station opts for the latter, cable operators are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without the station’s permission. TWC currently has multi-year agreements with most of the retransmission consent stations that it carries. In some cases, TWC carries stations under short-term arrangements while it attempts to negotiate new long-term retransmission agreements. If negotiations with these programmers prove unsuccessful, they could require TWC to cease carrying their signals, possibly for an indefinite period. Any loss of stations could make TWC’s video service less attractive to subscribers, which could result in less subscription and advertising revenue. In retransmission-consent negotiations, broadcasters often condition consent with respect to one station on carriage of one or more other stations or programming services in which they or their affiliates have an interest. Carriage of these other services may increase TWC’s programming expenses and diminish the amount of capacity it has available to introduce new services, which could have an adverse effect on TWC’s business and financial results. TWC may not be able to obtain necessary hardware, software and operational support. TWC depends on third party suppliers and licensors to supply some of the hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of its services. TWC obtains these items from a limited number of vendors, some of which do not have a long operating history. Some of TWC’s hardware, software and operational support vendors represent TWC’s sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity. If demand exceeds these vendors’ capacity or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, TWC’s ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials might delay the provision of services. These events could materially and adversely affect TWC’s ability to retain and attract subscribers, and have a material negative impact on TWC’s operations, business, financial results and financial condition. Since late 2006, TWC has noted increased demand for HDTV-capable set-top boxes. This increased demand comes at a time when TWC’s set-top box suppliers need to begin making changes in their production processes to enable them to supply cable operators with set-top boxes that use separate security. See “— Risks Related to Government Regulation — The FCC’s set-top box rules could impose significant additional costs on TWC” below. As of February 20, 2007, TWC was experiencing, and may continue to experience during the near term, difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of HDTV-capable set-top boxes to satisfy all consumer requests for such boxes. 40 Table of Contents A limited number of vendors of key technologies can lead to less product innovation and higher costs. For these reasons, TWC generally endeavors to establish alternative vendors for materials it consider critical, but may not be able to establish these relationships or be able to obtain required materials on favorable terms. For example, each of TWC’s systems currently purchases set-top boxes from a limited number of vendors. This is due to the fact that each of TWC’s cable systems uses one of two proprietary conditional access security schemes, which allow TWC to regulate subscriber access to some services, such as premium channels. TWC believes that the proprietary nature of these conditional access schemes makes other manufacturers reluctant to produce set-top boxes. Future innovation in set-top boxes may be restricted until these issues are resolved. In addition, TWC believes that the general lack of compatibility among set-top box operating systems has slowed the industry’s development and deployment of digital set-top box applications. TWC has developed a proprietary user interface and interactive programming guide that it expects to introduce in most of its operating areas during 2007. No assurance can be given that TWC’s proprietary interface and guide will operate correctly, will be popular with consumers or will be compatible with other products and services that TWC’s customers value. In addition, TWC has agreements with Verizon and Sprint under which these companies assist TWC in providing Digital Phone service to customers by routing voice traffic to the public switched network, delivering enhanced 911 service and assisting in local number portability and long distance traffic carriage. In July 2006, TWC agreed to expand its multi-year relationship with Sprint, selecting Sprint as its primary provider of these services, including in the Acquired Systems. TWC’s transition to and reliance on a single provider for the bulk of these services may render it vulnerable to service disruptions. In addition, in some limited areas, as a result of rulings of the applicable state public utility commissions, Verizon and Sprint cannot provide TWC with certain of their services, including those that use interconnection obtained from certain local telephone companies. While TWC has filed a petition with the FCC requesting clarification that Verizon and Sprint are entitled to provide these services to TWC and, in the interim, plans to provide its Digital Phone service in these limited areas, where possible, by obtaining interconnection directly from the local telephone companies and providing TWC’s own 911 connectivity and number portability, TWC’s inability to use Sprint and Verizon for these services could negatively impact its ability to offer Digital Phone in certain areas as well as the cost of providing its service. TWC may encounter substantially increased pole attachment costs. Under federal law, TWC has the right to attach cables carrying video services to the telephone and similar poles of investor-owned utilities at regulated rates. However, because these cables carry services other than video services, such as high-speed data services or new forms of voice services, some utility pole owners have sought to impose additional fees for pole attachment. The U.S. Supreme Court has rejected the efforts of some utility pole owners to make cable attachments carrying Internet traffic ineligible for regulatory protection. Pole owners have, however, made arguments in other areas of pole regulation that, if successful, could significantly increase TWC’s costs. In addition, TWC’s pole attachment rates may increase insofar as TWC’s systems are providing voice services. Some of the poles TWC uses are exempt from federal regulation because they are owned by utility cooperatives and municipal entities. These entities may not renew TWC’s existing agreements when they expire, and they may require TWC to pay substantially increased fees. A number of these entities are currently seeking to impose substantial rate increases. Any inability to secure continued pole attachment agreements with these cooperatives or municipal utilities on commercially reasonable terms could cause TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition to suffer. The adoption of, or the failure to adopt, certain consumer electronics devices or computers may negatively impact TWC’s offerings of new and enhanced services. Customer acceptance and use of new and enhanced services depend, to some extent, on customers having ready access and exposure to these services. One of the ways this access is facilitated is through the user interface included in TWC’s digital set-top boxes. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 54% of TWC’s basic video subscribers leased one or more digital set-top boxes from it. The consumer electronics industry’s provision of “cable 41 Table of Contents ready” and “digital cable ready” televisions and other devices, as well as the IT industry’s provision of computing devices capable of tuning, storing and displaying cable video signals, means customers owning these devices may use a different user interface from the one TWC provides and/or may not be able to access services requiring two-way transmission capabilities unless they also have a set-top box. Accordingly, customers using these devices without set-top boxes may have limited exposure and access to TWC’s advanced video services, including its interactive program guide and VOD and SVOD. If such devices attain wide consumer acceptance, TWC’s revenue from equipment rental and two-way transmission-based services could decrease, and there could be a negative impact on TWC’s ability to sell advanced services to customers. TWC cannot predict the extent to which different interfaces will affect TWC’s future business and operations. See Item 1, “Business — Regulatory Matters — Communications Act and FCC Regulation.” TWC and other cable operators are involved in various efforts to ensure that consumer electronics and IT industry devices are capable of utilizing TWC’s two-way services, including: direct arrangements with a handful of consumer electronics companies that have led to the imminent deployment of a limited number of two-way capable televisions and other devices; continuing efforts (unsuccessful to date) to negotiate two-way interoperability standards with the broad consumer electronics industry; the development of an open software architecture layer that such devices could use to accept two-way applications; and an effort to develop a downloadable security system for consumer electronics devices. No assurances can be given that these or other efforts will be successful or that, if successful, consumers will widely adopt devices utilizing these technologies. Risks Related to Government Regulation TWC’s business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could adversely affect TWC’s business. TWC’s video and voice services are subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. In addition, the federal government also has been exploring possible regulation of high-speed data services. Additional regulation, including regulation relating to rates, equipment, programming, levels and types of services, taxes and other charges, could have an adverse impact on TWC’s services. TWC expects that legislative enactments, court actions, and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and in some cases change the rights of cable companies and other entities providing video, data and voice services under the Communications Act and other laws, possibly in ways that TWC has not foreseen. The results of these legislative, judicial, and administrative actions may materially affect TWC’s business operations in areas such as: • Cable Franchising. At the federal level, various provisions have been introduced in connection with broader Communications Act reform that would streamline the video franchising process to facilitate entry by new competitors. To date, no such measures have been adopted by Congress. In December 2006, the FCC adopted an order in which the agency concluded that the current franchise approval process constitutes an unreasonable barrier to entry that impedes the development of cable competition and broadband deployment. As a result, the agency adopted new rules intended to limit the ability of county- and municipal-level franchising authorities to delay or refuse the grant of competitive franchises. Among other things, the new rules: establish deadlines for franchising authorities to act on applications; prohibit franchising authorities from placing unreasonable build-out demands on applicants; specify that certain fees, costs, and other compensation to franchising authorities will count towards the statutory five-percent cap on franchise fees; prohibit franchising authorities from requiring applicants to undertake certain obligations concerning the provision of public, educational, and governmental access programming and institutional networks; and preempt local level-playing-field regulations, and similar provisions, to the extent they impose restrictions on applicants greater than those in the FCC’s new rules. At the state level, several states, including California, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas have enacted statutes intended to streamline entry by additional video competitors. Some of these statutes provide more favorable treatment to new entrants than to existing providers. Similar bills are pending or may be enacted in additional states. To the extent federal or state laws or regulations facilitate additional competitive entry or create more favorable regulatory treatment for new entrants, TWC’s operations could be materially and adversely affected. 42 Table of Contents • A la carte Video Services. There has from time to time been federal legislative interest in requiring cable operators to offer historically bundled programming services on an à la carte basis. Currently, no such legislation is pending. In November 2004, the FCC released a study concluding that à la carte would raise costs for consumers and reduce programming choices. In February 2006, the FCC’s Media Bureau issued a revised report that concluded, contrary to the findings of the earlier study, that à la carte could be beneficial in some instances. There are no pending proceedings related to à la carte at the FCC. • Carriage Regulations. In 2005, the FCC reaffirmed its earlier decisions rejecting multicasting (i.e., carriage of more than one program stream per broadcaster) and dual carriage (i.e., carriage of both digital and analog broadcast signals) requirements with respect to carriage of broadcast signals pursuant to must-carry rules. Certain parties filed petitions for reconsideration. To date, no action has been taken on these reconsideration petitions, and TWC is unable to predict what requirements, if any, the FCC might adopt. In addition, the FCC is expected to launch proceedings related to leased access and program carriage. With respect to leased access, the FCC is expected to seek comment on how leased access is being used in the marketplace, and whether any rule changes are necessary to better effectuate statutory objectives. With respect to program carriage, the FCC is expected to examine its procedural rules, and assess whether modifications are needed to achieve more timely decisions in response to program carriage complaints. TWC is unable to predict whether these expected proceedings will lead to any changes in existing regulations. • Voice Communications. Traditional providers of voice services generally are subject to significant regulations. It is unclear to what extent those regulations (or other regulations) apply to providers of nontraditional voice services, including TWC’s. In 2004, the FCC broadly inquired how Voice-over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) should be classified for purposes of the Communications Act, and how it should be regulated. To date, however, the FCC has not issued an order comprehensively resolving that inquiry. Instead, the FCC has addressed certain individual issues on a piecemeal basis. In particular, the FCC declared in 2004 that certain nontraditional voice services are not subject to state certification or tariffing obligations. The full extent of this preemption is unclear and the validity of the preemption order has been appealed to a federal appellate court where a decision is pending. In orders in 2005 and 2006, the FCC subjected nontraditional voice service providers to obligations to provide 911 emergency service, to accommodate law enforcement requests for information and wiretapping and to contribute to the federal universal service fund. TWC was already operating in accordance with these requirements at that time. To the extent that the FCC (or Congress) imposes additional burdens, TWC’s operations could be adversely affected. “Net neutrality” legislation or regulation could limit TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business profitably, to manage its broadband facilities efficiently and to make upgrades to those facilities sufficient to respond to growing bandwidth usage by its high-speed data customers. Several disparate groups have adopted the term “net neutrality” in connection with their efforts to persuade Congress and regulators to adopt rules that could limit the ability of broadband providers to manage their networks efficiently and profitably. Although the positions taken by these groups are not well defined and are sometimes inconsistent with one another, most would directly or indirectly limit the ability of broadband providers to apply differential pricing or network management policies to different uses of the Internet. Proponents of such regulation also seek to prohibit broadband providers from recovering the costs of rising bandwidth usage from any parties other than retail customers. The average bandwidth usage of TWC’s high-speed data customers has been increasing significantly in recent years as the amount of high-bandwidth content and the number of applications available on the Internet continues to grow. In order to continue to provide quality service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses and demands, to manage bandwidth usage efficiently and to make upgrades to its broadband facilities. As a result, depending on the form it might take, “net neutrality” legislation or regulation could impact TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data network profitably and to undertake the upgrades that may be needed to continue to provide high quality high-speed data services. TWC is unable to predict the likelihood that such regulatory proposals will be adopted. For a 43 Table of Contents description of current regulatory proposals, see Item 1, “Business — Regulatory Matters — Communications Act and FCC Regulation.” Rate regulation could materially adversely impact TWC’s operations, business, financial results or financial condition. Under current FCC regulations, rates for “basic” video service and associated equipment are permitted to be regulated. In many localities, TWC is not subject to basic video rate regulation, either because the local franchising authority has not asked the FCC for permission to regulate rates or because the FCC has found that there is “effective competition.” Also, there is currently no rate regulation for TWC’s other services, including high-speed data services. It is possible, however, that the FCC or Congress will adopt more extensive rate regulation for TWC’s video services or regulate other services, such as high-speed data and voice services, which could impede TWC’s ability to raise rates, or require rate reductions, and therefore could cause TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition to suffer. Changes in carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on TWC. Although TWC would likely choose to carry almost all local full power analog broadcast signals voluntarily, so called “must carry” rules require TWC to carry video programming that it might not otherwise carry, including some local broadcast television signals on some of its cable systems. In addition, TWC is required to carry local public, educational and government access video programming and unaffiliated commercial leased access video programming. These regulations require TWC to use a substantial part of its capacity for this video programming and, for the most part, TWC must carry this programming without payment or compensation from the programmer. TWC’s carriage burden might increase due to changes in regulation in connection with the transition to digital broadcasting. FCC regulations require most television broadcast stations to broadcast in digital format as well as in analog format until digital broadcasting becomes widely accepted by television viewers. After this transition period, digital broadcasters must cease broadcasting in analog format. The FCC has concluded that, during the transition period, cable operators will not be required to carry the digital signals of broadcasters that are broadcasting in both analog and digital format. Only the few stations that broadcast solely in digital format will be entitled to carriage of their digital signals during the transition period. Some broadcast parties have asked that the FCC reconsider that determination. If the FCC does so and changes the decision, TWC’s carriage burden could increase significantly. TWC expects that, once the digital transition is complete, cable operators will be required to carry most local broadcasters’ digital signals. TWC is uncertain whether that requirement will be more onerous than the carriage requirement concerning analog signals. Under the current regulations, each broadcaster is allowed to use the digital spectrum allocated to it to transmit either one “high definition” program stream or multiple separate “standard definition” program streams. The FCC has determined that cable operators will have to carry only one program stream per broadcaster. Some broadcast parties have asked the FCC to reconsider that determination. If the FCC does so and changes the decision, TWC could be compelled to carry more programming over which it is not able to assert editorial control. Consequently, TWC’s mix of programming could become less attractive to subscribers. Moreover, if the FCC adopts rules that are not competitively neutral, cable operators could be placed at a disadvantage versus other multi-channel video providers. It is not clear whether cable operators may “down convert” must-carry digital signals after the transition to digital broadcasts is complete to ensure they can be viewed by households that do not have digital equipment. If the FCC interprets the relevant statute, or if Congress clarifies the statute, with the result that such down conversion is not permitted, TWC could be required to incur additional costs to deliver the signals to non-digital homes. TWC may have to pay fees in connection with its cable modem service. Local franchising authorities generally require cable operators to pay a franchise fee of five percent of revenue, which cable operators collect in turn from their subscribers. TWC has taken the position that under the Communications Act, local franchising authorities are allowed to impose a franchise fee only on revenue from “cable services.” Following the FCC’s March 2002 determination that cable modem service does not constitute a “cable 44 Table of Contents service,” TWC and most other multiple system operators stopped collecting and paying franchise fees on cable modem revenue. The FCC has initiated a rulemaking proceeding to explore the consequences of its March 2002 order. If either the FCC or a court were to determine that, despite the March 2002 order, TWC is required to pay franchise fees on cable modem revenue, TWC’s franchise fee burden could increase going forward. TWC would be permitted to collect those increased fees from its subscribers, but doing so could impair its competitive position as compared to high-speed data service providers who are not required to collect and pay franchise fees. TWC could also become liable for franchise fees back to the time it stopped paying them. TWC may not be able to recover those fees from subscribers. The FCC’s set-top box rules could impose significant additional costs on TWC. Currently, many cable subscribers rent set-top boxes from TWC that perform both signal-reception functions and conditional-access security functions, as well as enable delivery of advanced services. In 1996, Congress enacted a statute seeking to allow cable subscribers to use set-top boxes obtained from certain third parties, including third-party retailers. The most important of the FCC’s implementing regulations requires cable operators to offer separate equipment that provides only the security functions and not the signal-reception functions (so that cable subscribers can purchase set-top boxes or other navigational devices from third parties) and to cease placing into service new set-top boxes that have integrated security and signal-reception functions. The regulations requiring cable operators to cease distributing new set-top boxes with integrated security and signal-reception functions are currently scheduled to go into effect on July 1, 2007. On August 16, 2006, the NCTA filed with the FCC a request that these rules be waived for all cable operators, including TWC, until a downloadable security solution is available or December 31, 2009, whichever is earlier. No assurance can be given that the FCC will grant this or any other waiver request. TWC’s vendors have not yet manufactured, on a commercial scale, set-top boxes that can support all the services that TWC offers while relying on separate security devices. It is possible that TWC’s vendors will be unable to deliver the necessary set-top boxes in time for TWC to comply with the FCC regulations. It is also possible that the FCC will determine that the set-top boxes that TWC eventually obtains are not compliant with applicable rules. In either case, the FCC may penalize TWC. In addition, design and manufacture of the new set-top boxes will come at a significant expense, which TWC’s vendors will seek to pass on to TWC, but which TWC in turn may not be able to pass on to its customers, thereby increasing its costs. TWC expects to incur approximately $50 million in incremental set-top box costs during 2007 as a result of these regulations. The FCC has indicated that direct broadcast satellite operators are not required to comply with the FCC’s set-top box rules, and one telephone company has asked for a waiver of the rules. If TWC has to comply with the rule prohibiting set-top boxes with integrated security while its competitors are not required to comply with that rule, TWC may be at a competitive disadvantage. Applicable law is subject to change. The exact requirements of applicable law are not always clear, and the rules affecting TWC’s businesses are always subject to change. For example, the FCC may interpret its rules and regulations in enforcement proceedings in a manner that is inconsistent with the judgments TWC has made. Likewise, regulators and legislators at all levels of government may sometimes change existing rules or establish new rules. Congress, for example, considers new legislative requirements for cable operators virtually every year, and there is always a risk that such proposals will ultimately be enacted. See Item 1, “Business — Regulatory Matters.” Risks Related to TWC’s Relationship with Time Warner Some of TWC’s officers and directors may have interests that diverge from TWC’s in favor of Time Warner because of past and ongoing relationships with Time Warner and its affiliates. Some of TWC’s officers and directors may experience conflicts of interest with respect to decisions involving business opportunities and similar matters that may arise in the ordinary course of TWC’s business or the business of Time Warner and its affiliates. One of TWC’s directors is also an executive officer of Time Warner, another is an 45 Table of Contents executive officer of a subsidiary of Time Warner that is a sister company of TWC and four of TWC’s directors (including Glenn A. Britt, TWC’s President and Chief Executive Officer) served as executive officers of Time Warner or its predecessors in the past. A number of TWC’s directors and all of its executive officers also have restricted shares, restricted stock units and/or options to purchase shares of Time Warner common stock. In addition, many of TWC’s directors and executive officers have invested in Time Warner common stock through their participation in Time Warner’s and TWC’s savings plans. These past and ongoing relationships with Time Warner and any significant financial interest in Time Warner by these persons may present conflicts of interest that could materially adversely affect TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition. For example, these decisions could be materially related to: • the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to TWC by Time Warner; • the desirability of corporate opportunities, such as the entry into new businesses or pursuit of potential acquisitions, particularly those that might allow TWC to compete with Time Warner; and • employee retention or recruiting. The TWC Certificate of Incorporation requires that TWC’s board of directors include independent members, subject to certain limitations, and the TWC By-Laws require that certain related party transactions be approved by a majority of these independent directors. Time Warner and its affiliates may compete with TWC in one or more lines of business and may provide some services under the “Time Warner” brand or similar brand names. Time Warner and its affiliates are engaged in a diverse range of entertainment and media-related businesses, including filmed entertainment, home video and Internet-related businesses, and these businesses may have interests that conflict with or compete in some manner with TWC’s business. Time Warner and its affiliates are generally under no obligation to share any future business opportunities available to it with TWC and the TWC Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions that release Time Warner and its affiliates, including TWC’s directors who are also Time Warner’s employees or executive officers, from this obligation and any liability that would result from breach of this obligation. Time Warner may deliver video, high-speed data, voice and wireless services over DSL, satellite or other means using the “Time Warner” brand name or similar brand names, potentially causing confusion among customers and complicating TWC’s marketing efforts. For instance, Time Warner has licensed the use of “Time Warner Telecom,” until July 2007, and “TW Telecom” and “TWTC” to Time Warner Telecom Inc., a former affiliate of Time Warner and a provider of managed voice and data networking solutions to enterprise organizations, which may compete with TWC’s commercial offerings. Any competition directly with Time Warner or its affiliates could materially adversely impact TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition. TWC is party to agreements with Time Warner governing the use of TWC’s brand names, including the “Time Warner Cable” brand name that may be terminated by Time Warner if TWC fails to perform its obligations under those agreements or if TWC undergoes a change of control. Some of the agreements governing the use of TWC’s brand names may be terminated by Time Warner if TWC: • commits a significant breach of its obligations under such agreements; • undergoes a change of control, even if Time Warner causes that change of control by selling some or all of its interest in TWC; or • materially fails to maintain the quality standards established for the use of these brand names and the products and services related to these brand names. TWC licenses its brand name, “Time Warner Cable,” and the trademark “Road Runner” from affiliates of Time Warner. TWC believes the “Time Warner Cable” and “Road Runner” brand names are valuable, and their loss could materially adversely affect TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition. 46 Table of Contents If Time Warner terminates these brand name license agreements, TWC would lose the goodwill associated with its brand names and be forced to develop new brand names, which would likely require substantial expenditures, and its business, financial results or financial condition would likely be materially adversely affected. Time Warner controls approximately 90.6% of the voting power of the outstanding TWC common stock and has the ability to elect a majority of TWC’s directors, and its interest may conflict with the interests of TWC’s other stockholders. Time Warner indirectly holds all of TWC’s outstanding Class B common stock and approximately 82.7% of its outstanding Class A common stock. The common stock held by Time Warner represents approximately 90.6% of TWC’s combined voting power and 84.0% of the total number of shares of capital stock outstanding of all classes of TWC’s voting stock. Accordingly, Time Warner can control the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of TWC’s stockholders. In addition, Time Warner, because it is the indirect holder of all of TWC’s outstanding Class B common stock, and because it also indirectly holds more than a majority of TWC’s outstanding Class A common stock, is able to elect all of TWC’s directors and will continue to be able to do so as long as it owns a majority of TWC Class A common stock and Class B common stock. As a result of Time Warner’s share ownership and representation on TWC’s board of directors, Time Warner is able to influence all of TWC’s affairs and actions, including matters requiring stockholder approval such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of Time Warner may differ from the interests of TWC’s other stockholders. The TWC Certificate of Incorporation requires that TWC’s board of directors include independent members, subject to certain limitations, and the TWC By-Laws require that certain related party transactions be approved by a majority of these independent directors. Time Warner’s approval right over TWC’s ability to incur indebtedness may harm TWC’s liquidity and operations and restrict its growth. Under a shareholder agreement entered into between TWC and Time Warner on April 20, 2005 (the “Shareholder Agreement”), which became effective upon the closing of the TWC Redemption, until Time Warner no longer considers TWC to have an impact on its credit profile, TWC must obtain the approval of Time Warner prior to incurring additional debt or rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) or issuing preferred equity, if TWC’s consolidated ratio of debt, including preferred equity, plus six times its annual rental expense to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (each as defined in the Shareholder Agreement) (“EBITDA”) plus rental expense, or “EBITDAR,” then exceeds, or would as a result of that incurrence exceed, 3:1, calculated without including any of TWC’s indebtedness or preferred equity held by Time Warner and its wholly owned subsidiaries. On December 31, 2006, this ratio did not exceed 3:1. Although Time Warner has consented to the issuance of commercial paper or borrowings under TWC’s current revolving credit facility up to the limit of that credit facility, if the ratio were exceeded, any other incurrence of debt or rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) or the issuance of preferred stock would require Time Warner’s approval. As a result, TWC may in the future have a limited ability to incur future debt and rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) and issue preferred equity without the consent of Time Warner, which if needed to raise additional capital, could limit TWC’s flexibility in exploring and pursuing financing alternatives and could have a material adverse effect on the market price of TWC Class A common stock and its liquidity and operations and restrict its growth. Time Warner’s capital markets and debt activity could adversely affect capital resources available to TWC. TWC’s ability to obtain financing in the capital markets and from other private sources may be adversely affected by future capital markets activity undertaken by Time Warner and its other subsidiaries. Capital raised by or committed to Time Warner for matters unrelated to TWC may reduce the supply of capital available for TWC as a result of increased leverage of Time Warner on a consolidated basis or reluctance in the market to incur additional credit exposure to Time Warner on a consolidated basis. In addition, TWC’s ability to undertake significant capital raising activities may be constrained by competing capital needs of other Time Warner businesses unrelated to TWC. For instance, on November 13, 2006, Time Warner issued $5 billion in principal amount of notes and 47 Table of Contents debentures with maturity dates ranging from November 2009 to November 2036. As of December 31, 2006, Time Warner had unused committed capacity of $7.1 billion, including approximately $1.5 billion of cash and equivalents, under its $7.0 billion committed credit facility, and TWC had approximately $2.8 billion of available borrowing capacity, including approximately $51 million of cash and equivalents, under its $14.0 billion committed credit facilities. TWC is exempt from certain corporate governance requirements since TWC is a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) rules and, as a result, its stockholders do not have the protections afforded by these corporate governance requirements. Time Warner controls more than 50% of the voting power of the outstanding TWC common stock. As a result, TWC is considered to be a “controlled company” for the purposes of the NYSE listing requirements and therefore is permitted to, and has, opted out of the NYSE listing requirements that would otherwise require its board of directors to have a majority of independent directors and its compensation and nominating and governance committees to be comprised entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, TWC’s stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. However, the TWC Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions requiring that independent directors constitute at least 50% of its board of directors and the TWC By-Laws require that certain related party transactions be approved by a majority of these independent directors. As a condition to the consummation of the Adelphia Acquisition, the TWC Certificate of Incorporation provides that this provision may not be amended, altered or repealed, and no provision inconsistent with this requirement may be adopted, for a period of three years following the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition without, among other things, the consent of a majority of the holders of the Class A common stock other than Time Warner and its affiliates. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 