Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Competition TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could negatively affect its business and financial results. TWC’s industry is and will continue to be highly competitive. Some of TWC’s principal competitors, DBS operators and incumbent local telephone companies, in particular, offer services that provide features and functions comparable to the video, high-speed data and/or voice services that TWC offers, and they are offering them in bundles similar to TWC’s. The telephone and DBS companies aggressively market their individual products as well as their bundles or synthetic bundles (i.e., video services provided principally by the DBS operator, and DSL service, traditional phone service and, in some cases, wireless service provided by the telephone company). These competitors try to distinguish their services from TWC’s by offering aggressive promotional pricing, exclusive programming, a bundle including their own or an affiliate’s wireless voice service and/or assertions of superior service or offerings. In addition to these competitors, TWC faces competition on individual services from a range of competitors, including, in video, SMATV and video delivered to consumers over the Internet; in high speed data, Wi-Fi, Wi-Max and 3G wireless broadband services provided by mobile carriers such as Verizon Wireless; broadband over power line providers and municipal Wi-Fi services and in voice, cellular telephone service providers and Internet phone providers, such as Vonage, and others. Furthermore, TWC operates its cable systems under non-exclusive franchises granted by state or local authorities. In some of TWC’s operating areas, other operators have overbuilt TWC’s systems and offer video, data and/or voice services in competition with TWC. 25 Table of Contents Any inability to compete effectively or an increase in competition with respect to video, voice or high-speed data services could have an adverse effect on TWC’s financial results and return on capital expenditures due to possible increases in the cost of gaining and retaining subscribers and lower per subscriber revenue, could slow or cause a decline in TWC’s growth rates, reduce TWC’s revenues, reduce the number of TWC’s subscribers or reduce TWC’s ability to increase penetration rates for services. As TWC expands and introduces new and enhanced products and services, TWC may be subject to competition from other providers of those products and services, such as telecommunications providers, ISP and consumer electronics companies, among others. TWC cannot predict the extent to which this competition will affect its future financial results or return on capital expenditures. Future advances in technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and in the regulatory and legislative environments, may result in changes to the competitive landscape. For additional information regarding the regulatory and legal environment, see “—Risks Related to Government Regulation” and “Business—Competition” and “—Regulatory Matters.” TWC operates its cable systems under franchises that are non-exclusive. State and local franchising authorities can grant additional franchises and foster additional competition. TWC’s cable systems are constructed and operated under non-exclusive franchises granted by state or local governmental authorities. Federal law prohibits franchising authorities from unreasonably denying requests for additional franchises. Consequently, competing operators may build systems in areas in which TWC holds franchises. The existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is referred to as an “overbuild.” In the past, competing operators—most of them relatively small—have obtained such franchises and offered competing services in some areas in which TWC holds franchises. More recently, incumbent local telephone companies with significant resources, particularly Verizon and AT&T, have obtained or have sought to obtain such franchises in connection with or in preparation for offering video, high-speed data and digital voice services in some of TWC’s service areas. See “—TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could negatively affect its business and financial results” above. Verizon and AT&T are continuing to upgrade their networks to enable the delivery of video and high-speed data services, in addition to their existing telephone services. Increased competition from any source, including overbuilders, could require TWC to charge lower prices for existing or future services than TWC otherwise might or require TWC to invest in or otherwise obtain additional services more quickly or at higher costs than TWC otherwise might. These actions, or the failure to take steps to allow TWC to compete effectively, could adversely affect TWC’s growth, financial condition and results of operations. TWC faces risks relating to competition for the leisure and entertainment time of audiences, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, TWC’s business is subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. TWC’s business competes with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, print media and the Internet. Technological advancements, such as VOD, new video formats, and Internet streaming and downloading, many of which have been beneficial to TWC’s business, have nonetheless increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could negatively impact not only consumer demand for TWC’s products and services, but also advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from TWC. If TWC does not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, TWC’s competitive position could deteriorate, and TWC’s financial results could suffer. TWC’s competitive position and business and financial results could suffer if it does not develop a compelling wireless offering. TWC believes that broadband cable networks currently provide the most efficient means to deliver its services, but consumers are increasingly interested in accessing information, entertainment and communication services outside the home as well. 26 Table of Contents TWC is exploring various means by which it can offer its customers mobile services. In November 2006, a joint venture formed by TWC and several cable operators was the winning bidder of 137 licenses in the FCC Auction 66 for Advanced Wireless Spectrum. However, there can be no assurance that the venture will successfully develop mobile voice and related wireless services or otherwise benefit from the acquired spectrum. If TWC incurs significant costs in developing or marketing mobile voice and related wireless services in connection with the venture or otherwise, and the resulting products and services are not competitive with other parties’ products or appealing to TWC’s customers, TWC’s business and financial results could suffer. In addition, if TWC’s competitors begin to expand their service bundles to include compelling mobile features before TWC has developed and rolled out an equivalent or more compelling offering, TWC may not be in a position to provide a competitive product offering and its business and financial results could suffer. TWC may encounter unforeseen difficulties as it increases the scale of its video, high-speed data and voice offerings to commercial customers. TWC has sold video and high-speed data services to businesses for some time and, in 2007, introduced an IP-based telephony service, Business Class Phone, geared to small- and medium-sized businesses. In order to provide its commercial customers with reliable services, TWC may need to increase expenditures, including spending on technology, equipment and personnel. If the services are not sufficiently reliable or TWC otherwise fails to meet commercial customers’ expectations, its commercial services business could be adversely affected. In addition, TWC faces competition from the existing local telephone companies as well as from a variety of other national and regional business services competitors. If TWC is unable to successfully attract and keep commercial customers, its growth, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additional Risks of TWC’s Operations TWC’s business is characterized by rapid technological change, and if TWC does not respond appropriately to technological changes, its competitive position may be harmed. TWC operates in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment and is, to a large extent, dependent on its ability to acquire, develop, adopt and exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish its services from those of its competitors. If TWC chooses technologies or equipment that are less effective, cost-efficient or attractive to its customers than those chosen by its competitors, or if TWC offers products or services that fail to appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices or that do not function as expected, TWC’s competitive position could deteriorate, and TWC’s business and financial results could suffer. The ability of TWC’s competitors to acquire or develop and introduce new technologies, products and services more quickly than TWC may adversely affect TWC’s competitive position. Furthermore, advances in technology, decreases in the cost of existing technologies or changes in competitors’ product and service offerings also may require TWC in the future to make additional research and development expenditures or to offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain products and services TWC currently offers to customers separately or at a premium. In addition, the uncertainty of the costs for obtaining intellectual property rights from third parties could impact TWC’s ability to respond to technological advances in a timely manner. TWC may continue to face challenges in its systems in Dallas, Texas and Los Angeles, California. TWC continues to face challenges in the Dallas, Texas and Los Angeles, California systems, most of which were acquired in the Transactions. During 2007, TWC undertook a significant integration effort that included upgrading the capacity and technical performance of these systems to levels that allow the delivery of advanced services and features. However, the historical negative perception of cable service in Dallas and Los Angeles, due in part to the service provided by predecessor cable operators, could hinder efforts to attract new customers. In addition, competition in Dallas and Los Angeles from Verizon and AT&T is intense. As a result, the Dallas and Los Angeles systems could be unable to meaningfully improve their financial performance, which could adversely affect TWC’s growth, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Significant unanticipated increases in the use of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services could increase TWC’s costs. The rising popularity of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services poses special risks for TWC’s high-speed data business. Examples of such services include peer-to-peer file sharing services, gaming services and the delivery of video via streaming technology and by download. If heavy usage of bandwidth-intensive services grows beyond TWC’s current expectations, TWC may need to invest more capital than currently anticipated to expand the bandwidth capacity of its systems or TWC’s customers may have a suboptimal experience when using TWC’s high-speed data service. In addition, in order to continue to provide quality service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses and demands, to manage bandwidth usage efficiently and to make upgrades to TWC’s broadband facilities. TWC’s ability to do these things could be restricted by legislative efforts to impose so-called “net neutrality” requirements on cable operators. See “—Risks Related to Government Regulation—TWC’s business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could adversely affect its business.” Availability of SDV technology may not enable TWC to effectively manage its existing bandwidth. As of December 31, 2007, TWC had deployed switched digital video, or SDV, technology to over 1.4 million digital video subscribers, and TWC intends to further deploy this technology during 2008. SDV allows TWC to save bandwidth by transmitting particular programming services only to groups of homes or nodes where subscribers are viewing the programming at a particular time rather than broadcasting it to all subscriber homes. Deploying SDV requires installation of new hardware and software at each cable system where it is employed. In addition, bandwidth savings are based on the actual viewing habits of subscribers. As a result, TWC may experience operational difficulties in deploying SDV and may not realize all of the efficiencies it anticipates from the deployment of this technology. In addition, the FCC may interpret existing regulation or introduce new regulation to restrict cable operators’ ability to use SDV technology. If TWC experiences operational difficulties in deploying SDV, if TWC is unable to gain anticipated additional network capacity as a result of its SDV deployment plans or if TWC is prohibited by regulation from using SDV technology, TWC may have difficulty carrying the volume of HDTV channels and other bandwidth-intensive traffic carried by competitors and may be forced to make costly upgrades to its systems in order to remain competitive. A weakening economy, especially a continued downturn in the housing market, may negatively impact TWC’s ability to attract new subscribers and generate increased subscription revenues. Providing basic video services is an established and highly penetrated business. As a result, TWC’s ability to achieve incremental growth in basic video subscribers is dependent in part on growth in new housing in TWC’s service areas, which is influenced by various factors outside of TWC’s control, including both national and local economic conditions. If growth in new housing continues to fall or if there are population declines in TWC’s operating areas, opportunities to gain new basic subscribers will decrease. In addition, a weakening economy or recession may result in less demand for TWC’s services, especially the more expensive advanced services, and may increase the number of subscribers from whom TWC is unable to collect payment for its services. A decrease in opportunities to gain new basic video subscribers or in demand for TWC’s advanced services or an increase in TWC’s bad debt may have an adverse effect on TWC’s growth, business and financial results or financial condition. TWC relies on network and information systems and other technology, and a disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental releases of information or similar events, may disrupt TWC’s business. Because network and information systems and other technologies are critical to TWC’s operating activities, network or information system shutdowns caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and similar events, pose increasing risks. Such an event could have an adverse impact on TWC and its customers, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to equipment and data. Such an event also could result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar 28 Table of Contents events in the future. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of TWC’s operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers or revenues. Furthermore, TWC’s operating activities could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in TWC’s information technology systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data. TWC could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage the reputation and credibility of TWC and its business and have a negative impact on its revenues. TWC also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection, privacy and security of personal information, information-related risks are increasing, particularly for businesses like TWC’s that handle a large amount of personal customer data. TWC’s business may be adversely affected if TWC cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which its business depends. TWC relies on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses and other agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers, and other parties, to establish and maintain its intellectual property rights in technology and the products and services used in TWC’s operations. However, any of TWC’s intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit TWC to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm. Recently, the number of patent infringement claims resulting in lawsuits has increased. Claims of intellectual property infringement could require TWC to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, which could require TWC to change its business practices and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even if TWC believes that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from TWC’s businesses. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change, TWC relies on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and TWC may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, if at all. The accounting treatment of goodwill and other identified intangibles could result in future asset impairments, which would be recorded as operating losses. Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“FAS 142”) requires that goodwill, including the goodwill included in the carrying value of investments accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, such as franchise agreements, cease to be amortized. FAS 142 requires that goodwill and certain intangible assets be tested at least annually for impairment. If TWC finds that the carrying value of goodwill or a certain intangible asset exceeds its fair value, it will reduce the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset to the fair value, and TWC will recognize an impairment loss. Any such impairment losses are required to be recorded as non-cash operating losses. TWC’s 2007 annual impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter, did not result in an impairment charge. However, over the past year, the decline in TWC’s stock price, as well as others in the cable industry, has resulted in a significantly lower market valuation as compared to the prior year, which in turn has resulted in a significantly lower market value of its reporting units and the value of its cable franchises. The result of the lower fair values is that the fair value of the Los Angeles reporting unit approximates its carrying value and the fair values of the cable franchises in most of the Company’s regions approximate their carrying values. As a result, any additional declines in value will likely result in goodwill and cable franchise impairment charges. Other intangible assets not subject to amortization are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Critical Accounting Policies—Asset Impairments—Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets” and “—Long-lived Assets.” It is possible that such charges, if taken, could be recorded prior to the December 31, 2008 testing date (i.e., during an interim period) if the Company’s stock price, its results of operations, or other factors require TWC to test for impairment. 29 Table of Contents The impairment tests require TWC to make an estimate of the fair value of intangible assets, which is primarily determined using discounted cash flow methodologies, research analyst estimates, market comparisons and a review of recent transactions. Since a number of factors may influence determinations of fair value of intangible assets, including those set forth in this discussion of “Risk Factors,” TWC is unable to predict whether impairments of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangibles will occur in the future. The IRS and state and local tax authorities may challenge the tax characterizations of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and the Exchange, or TWC’s related valuations, and any successful challenge by the IRS or state or local tax authorities could materially adversely affect TWC’s tax profile, significantly increase TWC’s future cash tax payments and significantly reduce TWC’s future earnings and cash flow. The Adelphia Acquisition was designed to be a fully taxable asset sale, the TWC Redemption was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Tax Code”), the TWE Redemption was designed as a redemption of Comcast’s partnership interest in TWE, and the Exchange was designed as an exchange of designated cable systems. There can be no assurance, however, that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) or state or local tax authorities (collectively with the IRS, the “Tax Authorities”) will not challenge one or more of such characterizations or TWC’s related valuations. Such a successful challenge by the Tax Authorities could materially adversely affect TWC’s tax profile (including TWC’s ability to recognize the intended tax benefits from the Transactions), significantly increase TWC’s future cash tax payments and significantly reduce TWC’s future earnings and cash flow. The tax consequences of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and the Exchange are complex and, in many cases, subject to significant uncertainties, including, but not limited to, uncertainties regarding the application of federal, state and local income tax laws to various transactions and events contemplated therein and regarding matters relating to valuation. Risks Related to Dependence on Third Parties Increases in programming costs or the inability to obtain popular programming could adversely affect TWC’s operations, business or financial results. Video programming costs represent a major component of TWC’s expenses and are expected to continue to increase, reflecting the increasing cost of obtaining desirable programming, particularly sports programming, as well as subscriber growth and the expansion of service offerings. It is expected that TWC’s video service margins will decline over the next few years as programming cost increases outpace growth in video revenues. Furthermore, current and future programming providers that supply content that is desirable to TWC’s subscribers may be unwilling to enter into distribution arrangements with TWC on acceptable terms. In addition, owners of non-broadcast video programming content may enter into exclusive distribution arrangements with TWC’s competitors. A failure to carry programming that is attractive to TWC’s subscribers could adversely impact subscription and advertising revenues. TWC may not be able to obtain necessary hardware, software and operational support. TWC depends on third party suppliers and licensors to supply some of the hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of TWC’s services. Some of TWC’s hardware, software and operational support vendors represent TWC’s sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity. If demand exceeds these vendors’ capacity or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, TWC’s ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected. These events could materially and adversely affect TWC’s ability to retain and attract subscribers, and have a material negative impact on TWC’s operations, business, financial results and financial condition. In addition, TWC has an agreement with Sprint under which it assists TWC in providing Digital Phone service to customers by routing voice traffic to and from destinations outside of TWC’s network via the public switched telephone network, delivering E911 service and assisting in local number portability and long-distance traffic carriage. TWC’s reliance on a single provider for these services may render TWC vulnerable to service disruptions and other operational difficulties, which could have an adverse effect on TWC’s business and financial results. 30 Table of Contents TWC may encounter substantially increased pole attachment costs. Under federal law, TWC has the right to attach cables carrying video services to telephone and similar poles of investor-owned utilities at regulated rates. However, because these cables carry services other than video services, such as high-speed data services or new forms of voice services, some utility pole owners have sought to impose additional fees for pole attachment. The U.S. Supreme Court has rejected the efforts of some utility pole owners to make cable attachments carrying Internet traffic ineligible for regulatory protection. Pole owners have, however, made arguments in other areas of pole regulation that, if successful, could significantly increase TWC’s costs and, in November 2007, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that proposes to establish a single pole attachment rate for all utility pole owners carrying broadband internet access services that would be higher than the rate charged for traditional cable and cable modem service. In addition, TWC’s pole attachment rates may increase insofar as TWC’s systems are providing voice services. Some of the poles TWC uses are exempt from federal regulation because they are owned by utility cooperatives and municipal entities. These entities may not renew TWC’s existing agreements when they expire, and they may require TWC to pay substantially increased fees. A number of these entities are currently seeking to impose substantial rate increases. Any inability to secure continued pole attachment agreements with these cooperatives or municipal utilities on commercially reasonable terms could cause TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition to suffer. The adoption of, or the failure to adopt, certain consumer electronics devices or computers may negatively impact TWC’s offerings of new and enhanced services. Customers using “cable-ready” and “digital cable-ready” televisions and other devices offered by consumer electronics companies or computing devices capable of tuning, storing and displaying cable video signals may use a different user interface from the one TWC provides and/or may not be able to access services requiring two-way transmission capabilities unless they also have a set-top box. These customers may have limited exposure and access to TWC’s advanced video services, including TWC’s interactive program guide and VOD and subscription-video-on-demand (“SVOD”). If such devices attain wide consumer acceptance, TWC’s revenue from equipment rental and two-way transmission-based services could decrease, and there could be a negative impact on TWC’s ability to sell advanced services to customers. TWC cannot predict the extent to which different interfaces will affect its future business and operations. See “Business—Regulatory Matters—Communications Act and FCC Regulation.” Risks Related to Government Regulation TWC’s business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could adversely affect its business. TWC’s video and voice services are subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. In addition, the federal government also has been exploring possible regulation of high-speed data services. Additional regulation, including regulation relating to rates, equipment, technologies, programming, levels and types of services, taxes and other charges, could have an adverse impact on TWC’s services. If the United States Congress (“Congress”) or regulators were to disallow the use of certain technologies TWC uses today or to mandate the implementation of other technologies, TWC’s services and results of operations could suffer. TWC expects that legislative enactments, court actions, and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and in some cases change the rights of cable companies and other entities providing video, data and voice services under the Communications Act and other laws, possibly in ways that TWC has not foreseen. The results of these legislative, judicial, and administrative actions may materially affect TWC’s business operations in areas such as: • Cable Franchising. At the federal level, various provisions have been introduced in connection with broader Communications Act reform that would streamline the video franchising process to facilitate entry by new competitors. To date, no such measures have been adopted by Congress. In December 2006, the FCC adopted new regulations intended to limit the ability of local franchising authorities to delay or refuse the grant of competitive franchises, which could facilitate entry by TWC’s competitors into areas where TWC operates. At the state level, several states, including California, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas, have enacted statutes intended to streamline entry by additional video competitors, some of which provide more favorable treatment to new entrants than to existing providers. Similar bills are 31 Table of Contents pending or may be enacted in additional states. To the extent federal or state laws or regulations facilitate additional competitive entry or create more favorable regulatory treatment for new entrants, TWC’s operations could be materially and adversely affected. See “Business—Regulatory Matters—State and Local Regulation.” • A la carte Video Services. There has from time to time been federal legislative and regulatory interest in requiring cable operators to offer historically bundled programming services on an à la carte basis, which could alter the cost structure of TWC’s services. Currently, no such legislation is pending and there are no pending proceedings related to à la carte video services at the FCC, although the FCC is examining the question of whether programming must be sold to MVPDs at the wholesale level on an unbundled basis. • Voice Communications. Traditional providers of voice services generally are subject to significant regulations. It is unclear to what extent those regulations (or other regulations) apply to providers of nontraditional voice services, including TWC’s. In orders over the past several years, the FCC subjected nontraditional voice service providers to a number of obligations applicable to traditional voice service. To the extent that the FCC (or Congress) imposes additional burdens, TWC’s operations could be adversely affected. See “Business—Regulatory Matters—Regulation of Telephony.” Changes in carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on TWC. Although TWC would likely choose to carry the majority of primary feeds of full power stations voluntarily, so-called “must carry” rules require TWC to carry video programming that it might not otherwise carry, including some local broadcast television signals on some of its cable systems. If the FCC seeks to revise or expand the “must carry” rules, such as to require carriage of multicast streams, TWC would be forced to carry video programming that it would not otherwise carry and to drop other, more popular programming, which could make TWC less competitive. In addition, TWC is required to carry unaffiliated commercial leased access video programming and, under some of its franchises, public, educational and government access video programming. These regulations require TWC to use a substantial part of its capacity for this video programming and, for much of this programming, TWC must carry this programming with little or no payment or compensation from the programmer. In November 2007, the FCC revised its leased access rules by further lowering the permitted rates charged to most leased access programmers. As a result of the lower rates, TWC may receive additional requests to carry programming that is less attractive to its subscribers and, if this occurs, be forced to cease carrying programming that is popular with its subscribers, which could make TWC less competitive. TWC’s carriage burden might increase due to changes in regulation in connection with the transition to digital broadcasting, which is scheduled for February 17, 2009. Beginning on February 18, 2009, cable operators that offer at least some analog service (i.e., that are not operating “all-digital” systems) will be required to provide subscribers both analog and digital feeds of must-carry broadcast stations. Currently, this obligation is scheduled to terminate in February 2012, subject to FCC review. As of February 2008, many of the specifics of how the transition will be accomplished are still uncertain and, in order for TWC to comply with requirements in connection with the digital transition, it will need to work with broadcasters who may not be ready to meet the regulatory requirements. In addition, while cable operators are required to provide subscribers both analog and digital feeds, there is no requirement that the broadcasters provide the analog signal to the cable operator. As a result, TWC may be forced to convert digital signals to analog feeds, which may increase TWC’s costs. In addition, several of TWC’s smaller systems may lack capacity to carry both analog and digital feeds of must-carry broadcast stations. If TWC is unable to obtain a waiver of this requirement for these systems from the FCC, TWC may be forced to invest capital to upgrade these systems, sell them or shut them down, or be required to drop other, more popular programming, in order to carry the dual feeds. As a general matter, if TWC’s government-imposed carriage burdens become more onerous, TWC could be compelled to carry more programming over which it is not able to assert editorial control and to cease carrying programming that is popular with subscribers. Consequently, TWC’s mix of programming could become less attractive to subscribers. Moreover, if the FCC adopts rules that are not competitively neutral, cable operators could be placed at a disadvantage versus other multi-channel video providers. 32 Table of Contents “Net neutrality” legislation or regulation could limit TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business profitably, to manage its broadband facilities efficiently and to make upgrades to those facilities sufficient to respond to growing bandwidth usage by TWC’s high-speed data customers. Several disparate groups have adopted the term “net neutrality” in connection with their efforts to persuade Congress and regulators to adopt rules that could limit the ability of broadband providers to apply differential pricing or network management policies to different uses of the Internet. Proponents of such regulation also seek to prohibit broadband providers from recovering the costs of rising bandwidth usage from any parties other than retail customers. The average bandwidth usage of TWC’s high-speed data customers has been increasing significantly in recent years as the amount of high-bandwidth content and the number of applications available on the Internet continue to grow. In order to continue to provide quality service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses and demands, to manage bandwidth usage efficiently and to make upgrades to TWC’s broadband facilities. As a result, depending on the form it might take, “net neutrality” legislation or regulation could impact TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data network profitably and to undertake the upgrades that may be needed to continue to provide high quality high-speed data services and could negatively impact its ability to compete effectively. Several petitions have been filed with the FCC asking it to adopt regulations in this area, however, TWC is unable to predict the likelihood that such regulatory proposals will be adopted. For a description of current regulatory proposals, see “Business—Regulatory Matters—Communications Act and FCC Regulation.” Under the program carriage rules, TWC could be compelled to carry programming services that it would not otherwise carry. The Communications Act and the FCC’s “program access” rules generally prevent vendors of satellite-delivered video programming that are affiliated with cable operators from favoring cable operators over competing MVPDs, such as DBS, in the terms and conditions of carriage, and limit the ability of such programming vendors to offer exclusive programming arrangements to cable operators. In addition, the Communications Act and the FCC’s “program carriage” rules generally prohibit any video programming vendor from being required to give up a financial interest to a cable operator or other MVPD or from being coerced into agreeing to an exclusive carriage agreement as a condition of carriage, and restrict cable operators and MVPDs from unreasonably restraining the ability of an unaffiliated programming vendor to compete fairly by discriminating against the programming vendor on the basis of its non-affiliation in the selection, terms or conditions for carriage. The FCC’s Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order imposes certain additional obligations related to these rules. See “—Regulatory Matters—Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order.” Under a successful FCC program access complaint, TWC, its affiliates and other vertically-integrated programmers may have to make programming available to MVPDs that compete with TWC that such programmers might otherwise choose not to sell to or to do so on terms which they would not otherwise voluntarily accept. Under a successful program carriage complaint, TWC might be compelled to carry programming services it would not otherwise carry and/or to do so on economic and other terms that it would not accept absent such compulsion. Such compelled government carriage could reduce TWC’s ability to carry other, more desirable programming and non-video services, decrease its ability to manage its bandwidth efficiently and increase TWC’s costs, adversely affecting TWC’s competitive position. Rate regulation could materially adversely impact TWC’s operations, business, financial results or financial condition. Under current FCC regulations, rates for BST video service and associated equipment are permitted to be regulated. In many localities, TWC is not subject to BST video rate regulation, either because the local franchising authority has not asked the FCC for permission to regulate rates or because the FCC has found that there is “effective competition.” Also, there is currently no rate regulation for TWC’s other services, including high-speed data and voice services. It is possible, however, that the FCC or Congress will adopt more extensive rate regulation for TWC’s video services or regulate other services, such as high-speed data and voice services, which could impede TWC’s ability to raise rates, or require rate reductions, and therefore could cause TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition to suffer. 33 Table of Contents TWC may have to pay fees in connection with its cable modem service. Local franchising authorities generally require cable operators to pay a franchise fee of five percent of revenue, which cable operators collect in turn from their subscribers. TWC has taken the position that under the Communications Act, local franchising authorities are allowed to impose a franchise fee only on revenue from “cable services.” Following the FCC’s March 2002 determination that cable modem service does not constitute a “cable service,” TWC and most other multiple system operators stopped collecting and paying franchise fees on cable modem revenue. The FCC has initiated a rulemaking proceeding to explore the consequences of its March 2002 order. If either the FCC or a court were to determine that, despite the March 2002 order, TWC is required to pay franchise fees on cable modem revenue, TWC’s franchise fee burden could increase going forward. TWC would be permitted to collect those increased fees from its subscribers, but doing so could impair its competitive position as compared to high-speed data service providers who are not required to collect and pay franchise fees. TWC could also become liable for franchise fees back to the time TWC stopped paying them. TWC may not be able to recover those fees from subscribers. Most courts interpreting the rules, including several instances involving TWC, have determined that cable operators are not required to pay these fees on cable modem service. In 2007, an intermediate state appellate court decided, in a case not involving TWC, that cable operators can be required to pay franchise fees on cable modem service. This decision may encourage other franchise authorities to seek such fees. Applicable law is subject to change. The exact requirements of applicable law are not always clear, and the rules affecting TWC’s businesses are always subject to change. For example, the FCC may interpret its rules and regulations in enforcement proceedings in a manner that is inconsistent with the judgments TWC has made. Likewise, regulators and legislators at all levels of government may sometimes change existing rules or establish new rules. Congress, for example, considers new legislative requirements for cable operators virtually every year, and there is always a risk that such proposals will ultimately be enacted. See “Business—Regulatory Matters.” Risks Related to TWC’s Relationship with Time Warner Time Warner controls approximately 90.6% of the voting power of TWC’s outstanding common stock and has the ability to elect a majority of TWC’s directors, and its interest may conflict with the interests of TWC’s other stockholders. Time Warner indirectly holds all of TWC’s outstanding Class B common stock and approximately 82.7% of TWC’s outstanding Class A common stock. The common stock held by Time Warner represents approximately 90.6% of TWC’s combined voting power and 84.0% of the total number of shares of capital stock outstanding of all classes of TWC’s voting stock. Accordingly, Time Warner can control the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of TWC’s stockholders. In addition, Time Warner, because it is the indirect holder of all of TWC’s outstanding Class B common stock, and because it also indirectly holds a majority of TWC’s outstanding Class A common stock, is able to elect all of TWC’s directors and will continue to be able to do so as long as it owns a majority of TWC’s Class A common stock and Class B common stock. As a result of Time Warner’s share ownership and representation on TWC’s board of directors, Time Warner is able to influence all of TWC’s affairs and actions, including matters requiring stockholder approval such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of Time Warner may differ from the interests of TWC’s other stockholders. TWC’s Certificate of Incorporation requires that TWC’s board of directors include independent members, subject to certain limitations, and TWC’s By-laws require that certain related party transactions be approved by a majority of these independent directors. Some of TWC’s officers and directors may have interests that diverge from TWC in favor of Time Warner because of past and ongoing relationships with Time Warner and its affiliates. Some of TWC’s officers and directors may experience conflicts of interest with respect to decisions involving business opportunities and similar matters that may arise in the ordinary course of TWC’s business or the business of Time Warner and its affiliates. One of TWC’s directors is an executive officer of a subsidiary of Time Warner that 34 Table of Contents is a sister company of TWC and five of TWC’s directors (including Glenn A. Britt, TWC’s President and Chief Executive Officer) served as executive officers of Time Warner or its predecessors in the past. A number of TWC directors and executive officers also have restricted shares, restricted stock units and/or options to purchase shares of Time Warner common stock. These past and ongoing relationships with Time Warner and any significant financial interest in Time Warner by these persons may present conflicts of interest that could materially adversely affect TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition. For example, these decisions could be materially related to: • the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to TWC by Time Warner; • the desirability of corporate opportunities, such as the entry into new businesses or pursuit of potential acquisitions, particularly those that might allow TWC to compete with Time Warner; and • employee retention or recruiting. Time Warner and its affiliates may compete with TWC in one or more lines of business and may provide some services under the “Time Warner” brand or similar brand names. Time Warner and its affiliates are engaged in a diverse range of entertainment and media-related businesses, including filmed entertainment, home video and Internet-related businesses, and these businesses may have interests that conflict with or compete in some manner with TWC’s business. Time Warner and its affiliates are generally under no obligation to share any future business opportunities available to it with TWC and TWC’s Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions that release Time Warner and its affiliates, including TWC’s directors who are also Time Warner’s employees or executive officers, from this obligation and any liability that would result from breach of this obligation. Time Warner may deliver video, high-speed data, voice and wireless services over DSL, satellite or other means using the “Time Warner” brand name or similar brand names, potentially causing confusion among customers and complicating TWC’s marketing efforts. For instance, Time Warner has licensed the use of “Time Warner Telecom,” until July 2008, and “TW Telecom” and “TWTC” to Time Warner Telecom Inc., a former affiliate of Time Warner and a provider of managed voice and data networking solutions to enterprise organizations, which may compete with TWC’s commercial offerings. Any competition directly with Time Warner or its affiliates could materially adversely impact TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition. TWC is party to agreements with Time Warner governing the use of TWC’s brand names, including the “Time Warner Cable” brand name that may be terminated by Time Warner if TWC fails to perform its obligations under those agreements or if TWC undergoes a change of control. Some of the agreements governing the use of TWC’s brand names may be terminated by Time Warner if TWC: • commits a significant breach of its obligations under such agreements; • undergoes a change of control, even if Time Warner causes that change of control by selling some or all of its interest in TWC; or • materially fail to maintain the quality standards established for the use of these brand names and the products and services related to these brand names. TWC licenses its brand name, “Time Warner Cable,” and the trademark “Road Runner” from affiliates of Time Warner. If Time Warner terminates these brand name license agreements, TWC would lose the goodwill associated with its brand names and be forced to develop new brand names, which would likely require substantial expenditures, and TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition would likely be materially adversely affected. A change in Time Warner’s controlling interest in TWC may cause short-term volatility in trading volume and market price of TWC’s common stock. Time Warner currently owns approximately 84.0% of TWC’s common stock, which represents a 90.6% voting interest. Time Warner may, in the future, decide to spin-off or otherwise divest its controlling interest in TWC. If Time Warner were to spin-off or divest its interest, the profile of TWC’s stockholders would change significantly. If 35 Table of Contents such a transaction were to occur and a number of TWC’s resulting new stockholders chose to sell their shares, or if there is a perception that such sales might occur, it may cause short-term volatility in the trading volume and market price of TWC’s common stock. Time Warner’s approval right over TWC’s ability to incur indebtedness may harm TWC’s liquidity and operations and restrict TWC’s growth. Under a shareholder agreement entered into between TWC and Time Warner on April 20, 2005 (the “Shareholder Agreement”), which became effective in July 2006, until Time Warner no longer considers TWC to have an impact on its credit profile, TWC must obtain the approval of Time Warner prior to incurring additional debt or rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) or issuing preferred equity, if TWC’s consolidated ratio of debt, including preferred equity, plus six times TWC’s annual rental expense to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (each as defined in the Shareholder Agreement) (“EBITDA”) plus rental expense, or “EBITDAR,” then exceeds, or would as a result of that incurrence exceed, 3:1, calculated without including any of TWC’s indebtedness or preferred equity held by Time Warner and its wholly owned subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2007, this ratio did not exceed 3:1. Although Time Warner has consented to ordinary course issuances of commercial paper or borrowings under TWC’s current revolving credit facility up to the limit of that credit facility, if the ratio were exceeded, any other incurrence of debt or rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) or the issuance of preferred stock would require Time Warner’s approval. As a result, TWC may in the future have a limited ability to incur future debt and rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) and issue preferred equity without the consent of Time Warner, which if needed to raise additional capital, could limit TWC’s flexibility in exploring and pursuing financing alternatives and could have a material adverse effect on TWC’s liquidity and operations and restrict TWC’s growth. Time Warner’s capital markets and debt activity could adversely affect capital resources available to TWC. TWC’s ability to obtain financing in the capital markets and from other private sources may be adversely affected by future capital markets activity undertaken by Time Warner and its other subsidiaries. Capital raised by or committed to Time Warner for matters unrelated to TWC may reduce the supply of capital available for TWC as a result of increased leverage of Time Warner on a consolidated basis or reluctance in the market to incur additional credit exposure to Time Warner on a consolidated basis. In addition, TWC’s ability to undertake significant capital raising activities may be constrained by competing capital needs of other Time Warner businesses unrelated to TWC. As of December 31, 2007, Time Warner had unused committed capacity of $1.0 billion under its $7.0 billion committed credit facility, and approximately $1.3 billion of cash and equivalents, and TWC had approximately $3.6 billion of available borrowing capacity under its $6.0 billion committed credit facility, and approximately $232 million of cash and cash equivalents. In addition, in December 2007, Time Warner obtained commitments for a $2.0 billion three-year unsecured term loan, which closed on January 8, 2008. TWC is exempt from certain corporate governance requirements since TWC is a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, its stockholders do not have the protections afforded by these corporate governance requirements. Time Warner controls more than 50% of the voting power of TWC’s outstanding common stock. As a result, TWC is considered to be a “controlled company” for the purposes of the NYSE listing requirements and therefore is permitted to, and has, opted out of the NYSE listing requirements that would otherwise require TWC’s board of directors to have a majority of independent directors and TWC’s compensation and nominating and governance committees to be comprised entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, TWC’s stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. However, TWC’s Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions requiring that independent directors constitute at least 50% of TWC’s board of directors and TWC’s By-laws require that certain related party transactions be approved by a majority of these independent directors. As a condition to the consummation of the Adelphia Acquisition, TWC’s Certificate of Incorporation provides that this provision may not be amended, altered or repealed, and no provision inconsistent with this requirement may be adopted, until August 1, 2009 (three years following the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition) without, 36 Table of Contents among other things, the consent of a majority of the holders of the Class A common stock other than Time Warner and its affiliates. 