Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Competition TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could negatively affect its business and financial results. TWC’s industry is, and will continue to be, highly competitive. Some of TWC’s principal residential services competitors (incumbent local telephone companies, in particular) offer services that provide features and functions comparable to the residential video, high-speed data and/or voice services that TWC offers, and they offer them in bundles similar to TWC’s. In a number of TWC’s operating areas, AT&T and Verizon have upgraded their networks to carry two-way video, high-speed data with substantial bandwidth and IP-based telephony services, which they market and sell in bundles, in some cases, along with their wireless services. In addition, each of TWC’s residential services faces competition from other companies that provide services on a stand-alone basis. TWC’s residential video service faces competition from DBS providers that try to distinguish their services from TWC’s by offering aggressive promotional pricing, exclusive programming, and/or assertions of superior service or offerings. Increasingly, TWC’s residential video service also faces competition from companies that deliver content to consumers over the Internet and on mobile devices, some without charging a fee for access to the content. This trend could negatively impact customer demand for TWC’s residential video service, especially premium channels and VOD services, and could encourage content owners to seek higher license fees from TWC in order to subsidize their free distribution of content. TWC’s residential high-speed data and voice services also face competition from wireless Internet and voice providers, and TWC’s residential voice service faces competition from “over-the-top” phone service and other communication alternatives, including texting, social networking and email. TWC also competes across each of its business high-speed data, networking and voice services with ILECs and CLECs. TWC’s cell tower backhaul service faces competition from ILECs and CLECs, as well as other carriers, such as metro and regional fiber providers. TWC’s business video service faces competition from direct broadcast satellite providers. Through its NaviSite subsidiary, TWC competes with cloud, hosting and related service providers and application-service providers. In advertising, TWC competes for advertising revenues across many different platforms against a wide range of local and national competitors. Any inability to compete effectively or an increase in competition could have an adverse effect on TWC’s financial results and return on capital expenditures due to possible increases in the cost of gaining and retaining subscribers and lower per subscriber revenue, could slow or cause a decline in TWC’s growth rates, and reduce TWC’s revenues. As TWC expands and introduces new and enhanced services, TWC may be subject to competition from other providers of those services. TWC cannot predict the extent to which this competition will affect its future business and financial results or return on capital expenditures. Future advances in technology, as well as changes in the marketplace, in the economy and in the regulatory and legislative environments, may result in changes to the competitive landscape. For additional information, see “—Risks Related to Government Regulation,” “Business—Competition” and “—Regulatory Matters.” TWC faces risks relating to competition for the leisure and entertainment time of audiences, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, TWC’s business is subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. TWC’s business competes with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery. Technological advancements, such as new video formats and Internet streaming and downloading, many of which have been beneficial to TWC’s business, have nonetheless increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. Increasingly, content owners are delivering their content directly to consumers over the Internet, often without charging any fee for access to the content. Furthermore, due to consumer electronics innovations, consumers are more readily able to watch such Internet-delivered content on television sets and mobile devices. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could negatively impact not only consumer demand for TWC’s products and services, but also advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from TWC. If TWC does not respond appropriately to the increasing leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, TWC’s competitive position could deteriorate, and TWC’s financial results could suffer. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to TWC’s Operations A prolonged economic downturn, especially a continued downturn in the housing market, may negatively impact TWC’s ability to attract new subscribers and generate increased revenues. The U.S. economy has experienced a protracted slowdown, and the future economic environment may continue to be challenging. A continuation or further weakening of these economic conditions could lead to further reductions in consumer demand for the Company’s services, especially premium services and DVRs, and a continued increase in the number of homes that replace their wireline telephone service with wireless service or “over-the-top” phone service and their video service with Internet-delivered and/or over-air content, which would negatively impact TWC’s ability to attract customers, increase rates and maintain or increase revenues. In addition, providing video services is an established and highly penetrated business. TWC’s ability to gain new video subscribers is dependent to a large extent on growth in occupied housing in TWC’s service areas, which is influenced by both national and local economic conditions. If the number of occupied homes in TWC’s operating areas continues to decline and/or the number of home foreclosures significantly increases, it may negatively impact TWC’s ability to gain new video subscribers. TWC’s business is characterized by rapid technological change, and if TWC does not respond appropriately to technological changes, its competitive position may be harmed. TWC operates in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment and its success is, to a large extent, dependent on its ability to acquire, develop, adopt and exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish its services from those of its competitors. If TWC chooses technologies or equipment that are less effective, cost-efficient or attractive to its customers than those chosen by its competitors, or if TWC offers services that fail to appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices or that do not function as expected, TWC’s competitive position could deteriorate, and TWC’s business and financial results could suffer. The ability of TWC’s competitors to acquire or develop and introduce new technologies, products and services more quickly than TWC may adversely affect TWC’s competitive position. Furthermore, advances in technology, decreases in the cost of existing technologies or changes in competitors’ product and service offerings also may require TWC in the future to make additional research and development expenditures or to offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain products and services TWC currently offers to customers separately or at a premium. In addition, the uncertainty of the costs for obtaining intellectual property rights from third parties could impact TWC’s ability to respond to technological advances in a timely manner. Regulation may limit TWC’s ability to make required investments or adopt business models that are needed to continue to provide robust high-speed data service. The rising popularity of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services increases the demand for and usage of TWC’s high-speed data service. Examples of such services include the delivery of video via streaming technology and by download, peer-to-peer file sharing services and gaming services. TWC will need flexibility to develop pricing and business models that will allow it to respond to such changing consumer uses and demands and, if necessary, to invest more capital than currently expected to increase the bandwidth capacity of its systems. TWC’s ability to do these things could be restricted by legislative or regulatory efforts to impose so-called “net neutrality” requirements on cable operators. See “—Risks Related to Government Regulation—‘Net neutrality’ legislation or regulation could limit TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business profitably and to manage its broadband facilities efficiently.” TWC relies on network and information systems and other technology, and a disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of computer viruses, “cyber attacks,” misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental releases of information or similar events, may disrupt TWC’s business. Because network and information systems and other technologies are critical to TWC’s operating activities, network or information system, shutdowns caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, “cyber attacks” and other malicious activity pose increasing risks. TWC’s network and information systems are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and similar events. Any of these events could have an adverse impact on TWC and its customers, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to TWC’s plant, equipment, data and reputation. 21 Table of Contents Such an event also could result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of TWC’s operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers or revenues. Furthermore, TWC’s operating activities could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in TWC’s information technology systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data. TWC could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage the reputation and credibility of TWC and its business and have a negative impact on its revenues. TWC also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection, privacy and security of personal information, information-related risks are increasing, particularly for businesses like TWC’s that handle a large amount of personal customer data. TWC’s business may be adversely affected if TWC cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which its business depends. TWC relies on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses and other agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain its intellectual property rights in technology and the products and services used in TWC’s operations. However, any of TWC’s intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit TWC to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm. Claims of intellectual property infringement could require TWC to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, which could require TWC to change its business practices or offerings and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even claims without merit can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management’s attention and resources away from TWC’s businesses. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change, TWC relies on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and TWC may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, if at all. TWC is party to agreements with Time Warner and an affiliate of Time Warner governing the use of “Time Warner Cable” and “Road Runner” that may be terminated if TWC fails to perform its obligations under those agreements or if TWC undergoes a specified change of control. TWC licenses “Time Warner Cable” and “Road Runner” from Time Warner Inc. (“Time Warner”) and an affiliate of Time Warner, respectively. These license agreements may be terminated by Time Warner or its affiliate if TWC commits a significant breach of its obligations under such agreements, undergoes a specified change of control, or materially fails to maintain the quality standards established for the use of these trademarks and the products and services related to these trademarks. If Time Warner or its affiliate terminates these brand name license agreements, TWC would lose the goodwill associated with its brand names and be forced to develop new brand names, which would likely require substantial expenditures, and TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The accounting treatment of goodwill and other identified intangibles could result in future asset impairments, which would be recorded as operating losses. Authoritative guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) requires that goodwill, including the goodwill included in the carrying value of investments accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, such as cable franchise rights, cease to be amortized. The guidance requires that goodwill and certain intangible assets be tested annually for impairment or upon the occurrence of a triggering event. If the carrying value of goodwill or a certain intangible asset exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such impairment is required to be recorded as a noncash operating loss. TWC’s 2011 annual impairment analysis, which was performed as of July 1, 2011, did not result in any goodwill or cable franchise rights impairment charges. However, it is possible that impairment charges may be recorded in the future to 22 Table of Contents reflect potential declines in fair value. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Asset Impairments—Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets and Goodwill.” TWC has incurred substantial debt, which may limit its flexibility and prevent it from taking advantage of business opportunities. As of December 31, 2011, TWC had $21.565 billion of net debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred equity. This level of indebtedness may limit TWC’s ability to respond to market conditions, provide for capital investment needs or take advantage of business opportunities. Risks Related to Dependence on Third Parties Increases in programming and retransmission costs or the inability to obtain popular programming could adversely affect TWC’s operations, business or financial results. Video programming costs represent a major component of TWC’s expenses and are expected to continue to do so primarily due to the increasing cost of obtaining desirable programming, particularly broadcast and sports programming. TWC’s video programming costs as a percentage of video revenues have increased over recent years and will continue to increase over the next coming years as cable programming and broadcast station retransmission consent cost increases outpace growth in video revenues. Furthermore, providers of desirable content may be unwilling to enter into distribution arrangements with TWC on acceptable terms and owners of non-broadcast video programming content may enter into exclusive distribution arrangements with TWC’s competitors. A failure to carry programming that is attractive to TWC’s subscribers could adversely impact subscription and advertising revenues. TWC may not be able to obtain necessary hardware, software and operational support. TWC depends on third party suppliers and licensors to supply some of the hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of TWC’s services. Some of these vendors represent TWC’s sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity. If demand exceeds these vendors’ capacity, they experience operating or financial difficulties, they significantly increase the amount TWC pays for necessary products or services, or they cease production of any necessary product due to lack of demand, TWC’s ability to provide some services may be materially adversely affected. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect TWC’s ability to retain and attract subscribers, and have a material negative impact on TWC’s operations, business, financial results and financial condition. Risks Related to Government Regulation TWC’s business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could adversely affect its operations. TWC’s video and voice services are subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state and local levels. In addition, the federal government has extended regulation to high-speed data services. TWC is also subject to regulation of its video services relating to rates, equipment, technologies, programming, levels and types of services, taxes and other charges. Modification to existing regulations or the imposition of new regulations could have an adverse impact on TWC’s services. TWC expects that legislative enactments, court actions and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and, in some cases, change the rights of cable companies and other entities providing video, high-speed data and voice services under the Communications Act and other laws, possibly in ways that TWC has not foreseen. The results of these legislative, judicial and administrative actions may materially affect TWC’s business operations. Changes in broadcast carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on TWC. Although TWC would likely choose to carry the majority of primary feeds of full power stations voluntarily, so-called “must carry” rules require TWC to carry some local broadcast television signals on some of its cable systems that it might not otherwise carry. If the FCC seeks to revise or expand the “must carry” rules, such as to require carriage of multicast streams, TWC would be forced to carry video programming that it would not otherwise carry and potentially drop other, more popular programming in order to free capacity for the required programming, which could make TWC less competitive. Moreover, if the FCC adopts rules that are not competitively neutral, cable operators could be placed at a disadvantage versus other multi-channel video providers. 23 Table of Contents Under the program carriage rules, TWC could be compelled to carry programming services that it would not otherwise carry. The Communications Act and the FCC’s “program carriage” rules restrict cable operators and MVPDs from unreasonably restraining the ability of an unaffiliated programming vendor to compete fairly by discriminating against the programming vendor on the basis of its non-affiliation in the selection, terms or conditions for carriage. The FCC’s Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order imposes certain additional obligations related to these rules, and, in August 2011, the FCC issued a program carriage order and further notice of proposed rulemaking, which TWC and the National Cable and Telecommunications Association appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Under a successful program carriage complaint, TWC might be compelled to carry programming services it would not otherwise carry and/or to do so on economic and other terms that it would not accept absent such compulsion. TWC is currently the defendant in a program carriage complaint. See “Business—Regulatory Matters—Video Services—Program carriage and Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order.” Compelled government carriage could reduce TWC’s ability to carry other, more desirable programming and non-video services, decrease its ability to manage its bandwidth efficiently and increase TWC’s costs, adversely affecting TWC’s competitive position. “Net neutrality” legislation or regulation could limit TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business profitably and to manage its broadband facilities efficiently. On December 21, 2010, the FCC adopted an Open Internet Order imposing net neutrality obligations on broadband Internet access providers. The new Open Internet rules, which became effective on November 20, 2011, are based on principles of transparency, no blocking and no unreasonable discrimination and are applicable to fixed and wireless broadband Internet access providers to different extents. Under the new rules, fixed and wireless broadband Internet access providers, including TWC, are required to make their practices transparent to both consumers and providers of Internet content, services, applications and devices on both the website and at the point-of-sale. In addition, subject to “reasonable network management,” fixed broadband Internet access providers, including TWC, are prohibited from blocking lawful content, applications, services and non-harmful devices, and from engaging in unreasonable discrimination in transmitting lawful traffic. In order to continue to provide quality high-speed data service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses and demands, to manage bandwidth usage efficiently and to continue to invest in its systems. It is unclear how the FCC’s net neutrality regulations will be implemented now that they have become effective, and how “reasonable network management” will be determined. The new regulations could adversely impact TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data network profitably and to undertake the upgrades and put into operation management practices that may be needed to continue to provide high quality high-speed data services and could negatively impact its ability to compete effectively. For a description of the obligations that became effective late last year, see “Business—Regulatory Matters—High-speed Internet Access Services—‘Net neutrality’ legislative proposals and regulations.” Rate regulation could materially adversely impact TWC’s operations, business, financial results or financial condition. Under current FCC regulations, rates for basic service tier or BST video service and associated equipment are permitted to be regulated. In over 75% of the communities it serves, TWC is not subject to BST video rate regulation, either because the local franchising authority has not asked the FCC for permission to regulate rates or because the FCC has found that there is “effective competition.” Also, there is currently no rate regulation for TWC’s other services, including high-speed data and voice services. It is possible, however, that the FCC or Congress will adopt more extensive rate regulation for TWC’s video services or regulate the rates of other services, such as high-speed data and voice services, which could impede TWC’s ability to raise rates, or require rate reductions, and therefore could cause TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition to suffer. TWC may encounter substantially increased pole attachment costs. Under federal law, TWC has the right to attach cables carrying video and other services to telephone and similar poles of investor-owned utilities at regulated rates. However, because these cables may carry services other than video services, such as high-speed data services or new forms of voice services, some utility pole owners have sought to impose additional fees for pole attachment. On April 7, 2011, the FCC adopted an Order comprehensively revising its pole attachment rules. The new rules, which became effective June 8, 2011, seek to improve the efficiency and reduce the costs of deploying 24 Table of Contents telecommunications, cable and broadband networks in order to accelerate broadband deployment. The rules revise the formula for calculating the telecommunications attachment rate to lower it and bring it as close as possible to the video rate. Many utilities seek to impose the telecommunications rate on TWC when it carries services other than video services over its attachments. The April 2011 Order is subject to Petitions for Reconsideration at the FCC and to judicial appeal before the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Moreover, the appropriate method for calculating pole attachment rates for cable operators that provide VoIP services remains unclear, and an August 2009 petition from a coalition of electric utility companies asking the FCC to declare that the pole attachment rate for cable companies’ digital telephone service should be assessed at the telecommunications service rate is still pending. Some of the poles TWC uses are exempt from federal regulation because they are owned by utility cooperatives and municipal entities. These entities may not renew TWC’s existing agreements when they expire, and they may require TWC to pay substantially increased fees. A number of these entities are currently seeking to impose substantial rate increases. Any increase in TWC’s pole attachment rates or inability to secure continued pole attachment agreements with these cooperatives or municipal utilities on commercially reasonable terms could cause TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition to suffer. The IRS and state and local tax authorities may challenge the tax characterizations of the Adelphia Acquisition (as defined below), the Redemptions (as defined below) and the Exchange (as defined below), or TWC’s related valuations, and any successful challenge by the IRS or state or local tax authorities could materially adversely affect TWC’s tax profile, significantly increase TWC’s future cash tax payments and significantly reduce TWC’s future earnings and cash flow. The acquisition by TW NY Cable and Comcast of assets comprising in aggregate substantially all of the cable assets of Adelphia (the “Adelphia Acquisition”) was designed to be a fully taxable asset sale, the redemption by TWC of Comcast’s interests in TWC (the “TWC Redemption”) was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Tax Code”), the redemption by TWE of Comcast’s interests in TWE (the “TWE Redemption” and collectively with the TWC Redemption, the “Redemptions”) was designed as a redemption of Comcast’s partnership interest in TWE, and the exchange between TW NY Cable and Comcast immediately after the Adelphia Acquisition (the “Exchange”) was designed as an exchange of designated cable systems. There can be no assurance, however, that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) or state or local tax authorities (collectively with the IRS, the “Tax Authorities”) will not challenge one or more of such characterizations or TWC’s related valuations. Such a successful challenge by the Tax Authorities could materially adversely affect TWC’s tax profile (including TWC’s ability to recognize the intended tax benefits from the Adelphia/Comcast transactions), significantly increase TWC’s future cash tax payments and significantly reduce TWC’s future earnings and cash flow. The tax consequences of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and the Exchange are complex and, in many cases, subject to significant uncertainties, including, but not limited to, uncertainties regarding the application of federal, state and local income tax laws to various transactions and events contemplated therein and regarding matters relating to valuation. If the Separation Transactions (as defined below), including the Distribution (as defined below), do not qualify as tax-free, either as a result of actions taken or not taken by TWC or as a result of the failure of certain representations by TWC to be true, TWC has agreed to indemnify Time Warner for its taxes resulting from such disqualification, which would be significant. As part of TWC’s separation from Time Warner in March 2009 (the “Separation”), Time Warner received a private letter ruling from the IRS and Time Warner and TWC received opinions of tax counsel confirming that the transactions undertaken in connection with the Separation, including the transfer by a subsidiary of Time Warner of its 12.43% non-voting common stock interest in TW NY to TWC in exchange for 80 million newly issued shares of TWC’s Class A common stock, TWC’s payment of a special cash dividend to holders TWC’s outstanding Class A and Class B common stock, the conversion of each share of TWC’s outstanding Class A and Class B common stock into one share of TWC common stock, and the pro-rata dividend of all shares of TWC common stock held by Time Warner to holders of record of Time Warner’s common stock (the “Distribution” and, together with all of the transactions, the “Separation Transactions”), should generally qualify as tax-free to Time Warner and its stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The ruling and opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Time Warner and TWC regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Time Warner and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinions and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinions, the IRS could determine on audit that the Separation Transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that 25 Table of Contents any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in the stock ownership of Time Warner or TWC after the Distribution. Under the tax sharing agreement among Time Warner and TWC, TWC generally would be required to indemnify Time Warner against its taxes resulting from the failure of any of the Separation Transactions to qualify as tax-free as a result of (i) certain actions or failures to act by TWC or (ii) the failure of certain representations made by TWC to be true. In addition, even if TWC bears no contractual responsibility for taxes related to a failure of the Separation Transactions to qualify for their intended tax treatment, Treasury regulation section 1.1502-6 imposes on TWC several liability for all Time Warner federal income tax obligations relating to the period during which TWC was a member of the Time Warner federal consolidated tax group, including the date of the Separation Transactions. Similar provisions may apply under foreign, state or local law. Absent TWC causing the Separation Transactions to not qualify as tax-free, Time Warner has indemnified TWC against such several liability arising from a failure of the Separation Transactions to qualify for their intended tax treatment. Tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges to the Company’s tax positions could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. TWC operates cable systems in locations throughout the U.S. and, as a result, it is subject to the tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments. From time to time, various legislative and/or administrative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect the Company’s tax positions. There can be no assurance that the Company’s effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. As a result of state and local budget shortfalls due primarily to the economic environment as well as other considerations, certain states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on TWC’s services or changing the methodologies or base on which certain fees and taxes are computed. Such potential changes include additional taxes or fees on TWC’s services that could impact its customers, combined reporting and other changes to general business taxes, central/unit-level assessment of property taxes and other matters that could increase TWC’s income, franchise, sales, use and/or property tax liabilities. In addition, U.S. federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that TWC’s tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that TWC would be successful in any such challenge. Applicable law is subject to change. The exact requirements of applicable law are not always clear, and the rules affecting TWC’s businesses are always subject to change. For example, the FCC may interpret its rules and regulations in enforcement proceedings in a manner that is inconsistent with the judgments TWC has made. Likewise, regulators and legislators at all levels of government may sometimes change existing rules or establish new rules. Congress, for example, considers new legislative requirements for cable operators virtually every year, and there is always a risk that such proposals will ultimately be enacted. In addition, federal, state or local governments and/or tax authorities may change tax laws, regulations or administrative practices that could negatively impact TWC’s operating results and financial condition. See “Business—Regulatory Matters.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 