Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Competition TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could negatively affect its business and financial results. TWC’s industry is, and will continue to be, highly competitive. Some of TWC’s principal competitors, incumbent local telephone companies, in particular, offer services that provide features and functions comparable to the video, high-speed data and/or voice services that TWC offers, and they offer them in bundles similar to TWC’s, sometimes with the addition of wireless services. In a significant number of TWC’s operating areas, AT&T and Verizon have upgraded their networks to carry two-way video, high-speed data with substantial bandwidth and IP-based telephony services, which they market and sell in bundles, in some cases, along with their wireless service. In addition, each of TWC’s services faces competition from other companies that provide services on a stand-alone basis. TWC’s video service faces competition from DBS providers that try to distinguish their services from TWC’s by offering aggressive promotional pricing, exclusive programming, and/or assertions of superior service or offerings. Increasingly, TWC’s video service also faces competition from companies that deliver content to consumers over the Internet, some without charging a fee for access to the content. This trend could negatively impact customer demand for TWC’s video service, especially premium and On-Demand services, and could encourage content owners to seek higher license fees from TWC in order to subsidize their free distribution of content. TWC also faces competition in high-speed data service from wireless data providers, and in voice service from wireline, wireless and “over-the-top” phone providers, especially as an increasing number of homes in the United States replace their wireline telephone service with wireless service. Any inability to compete effectively or an increase in competition with respect to video, high-speed data or voice services could have an adverse effect on TWC’s financial results and return on capital expenditures due to possible increases in the cost of gaining and retaining subscribers and lower per subscriber revenue, could slow or cause a decline in TWC’s growth rates, and reduce TWC’s revenues. As TWC expands and introduces new and enhanced services, TWC may be subject to competition from other providers of those services. TWC cannot predict the extent to which this competition will affect its future business and financial results or return on capital expenditures. Future advances in technology, as well as changes in the marketplace, in the economy and in the regulatory and legislative environments, may result in changes to the competitive landscape. For additional information, see “—Risks Related to Government Regulation,” and “Business—Competition” and “—Regulatory Matters.” TWC faces risks relating to competition for the leisure and entertainment time of audiences, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, TWC’s business is subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. TWC’s business competes with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery. Technological advancements, such as VOD, new video formats, and Internet streaming and downloading, many of which have been beneficial to TWC’s business, have nonetheless increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. Increasingly, content owners are delivering their content directly to consumers over the Internet, often without charging any fee for access to the content. Furthermore, due to consumer electronics innovations, consumers are more readily able to watch such Internet-delivered content on television sets and mobile devices. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could negatively impact not only consumer demand for TWC’s products and services, but also advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from TWC. If TWC does not respond appropriately to the increasing leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, TWC’s competitive position could deteriorate, and TWC’s financial results could suffer. TWC’s competitive position and business and financial results could suffer if it does not develop compelling wireless offerings. TWC believes that broadband cable networks currently provide the most efficient means to deliver its services, but consumers are increasingly interested in accessing information, entertainment and communication services outside the home as well. TWC launched Road Runner Mobile, a wireless mobile broadband service, in several cities during the fourth quarter of 2009, and it expects to continue to roll out the service in additional cities during 2010. TWC utilizes Clearwire’s mobile broadband network to provide the service pursuant to a wholesale agreement with Clearwire. Clearwire’s network is currently available in a limited number of cities and there can be no assurance that Clearwire will successfully finance, construct and deploy a nationwide mobile broadband network. TWC does not offer wireless voice products although some of its wireline competitors and their affiliates do offer such products. TWC may determine that it needs to offer a wireless voice product to remain competitive. If TWC incurs significant costs in developing or marketing wireless mobile voice and/or broadband offerings, and the resulting offerings are not competitive with the offerings of TWC’s competitors or appealing to TWC’s customers, TWC’s business and financial results could suffer. Furthermore, if TWC’s 16 Table of Contents competitors expand their service bundles to include compelling wireless features before TWC has rolled out equivalent or more compelling offerings, TWC may not be in a position to provide a competitive service offering and its growth, business and financial results may be adversely affected. Risks Related to TWC’s Operations A prolonged economic downturn, especially a continued downturn in the housing market, may negatively impact TWC’s ability to attract new subscribers and generate increased subscription revenues. The United States economy has experienced a period of slowdown, and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of prior years. A continuation or further weakening of these economic conditions could lead to further reductions in consumer demand for the Company’s services, especially premium services and DVRs, and a continued increase in the number of homes that replace their wireline telephone service with wireless service, which would negatively impact TWC’s ability to attract customers, increase rates and maintain or increase subscription revenues. In addition, providing video services is an established and highly penetrated business. TWC’s ability to achieve incremental growth in video subscribers is dependent to a large extent on growth in occupied housing in TWC’s service areas, which is influenced by both national and local economic conditions. If growth in the number of occupied homes in TWC’s operating areas continues to decline, it may negatively impact TWC’s ability to gain new video subscribers. TWC’s business is characterized by rapid technological change, and if TWC does not respond appropriately to technological changes, its competitive position may be harmed. TWC operates in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment and its success is, to a large extent, dependent on its ability to acquire, develop, adopt and exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish its services from those of its competitors. If TWC chooses technologies or equipment that are less effective, cost-efficient or attractive to its customers than those chosen by its competitors, or if TWC offers services that fail to appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices or that do not function as expected, TWC’s competitive position could deteriorate, and TWC’s business and financial results could suffer. The ability of TWC’s competitors to acquire or develop and introduce new technologies, products and services more quickly than TWC may adversely affect TWC’s competitive position. Furthermore, advances in technology, decreases in the cost of existing technologies or changes in competitors’ product and service offerings also may require TWC in the future to make additional research and development expenditures or to offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain products and services TWC currently offers to customers separately or at a premium. In addition, the uncertainty of the costs for obtaining intellectual property rights from third parties could impact TWC’s ability to respond to technological advances in a timely manner. Significant unanticipated increases in the use of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services could increase TWC’s costs. The rising popularity of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services poses special risks for TWC’s high-speed data service. Examples of such services include peer-to-peer file sharing services, gaming services and the delivery of video via streaming technology and by download. If heavy usage of bandwidth-intensive services grows beyond TWC’s current expectations, TWC may need to invest more capital than currently anticipated to expand the bandwidth capacity of its systems or TWC’s customers may have a suboptimal experience when using TWC’s high-speed data service. In order to continue to provide quality service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses and demands and to manage bandwidth usage efficiently. TWC’s ability to do these things could be restricted by legislative or regulatory efforts to impose so-called “net neutrality” requirements on cable operators. See “—Risks Related to Government Regulation—‘Net neutrality’ legislation or regulation could limit TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business profitably and to manage its broadband facilities efficiently to respond to growing bandwidth usage by TWC’s high-speed data customers.” TWC may encounter unforeseen difficulties as it increases the scale of its service offerings to commercial customers. TWC has sold video, high-speed data, network and transport services to businesses for some time and, in 2007, introduced an IP-based telephony service, Business Class Phone, geared to small- and medium-sized businesses. In order to provide its commercial customers with reliable services, TWC may need to increase expenditures, including spending on technology, equipment and personnel. If the services are not sufficiently reliable or TWC otherwise fails to meet commercial customers’ expectations, the growth of its commercial services business may be limited. In addition, TWC faces competition from the existing local telephone companies as well as from a variety of other national and regional business services competitors. If TWC is unable to successfully attract and retain commercial customers, its growth, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents TWC relies on network and information systems and other technology, and a disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental releases of information or similar events, may disrupt TWC’s business. Because network and information systems and other technologies are critical to TWC’s operating activities, network or information system shutdowns caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and similar events, pose increasing risks. Such an event could have an adverse impact on TWC and its customers, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to TWC’s plant, equipment and data. Such an event also could result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of TWC’s operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers or revenues. Furthermore, TWC’s operating activities could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in TWC’s information technology systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data. TWC could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage the reputation and credibility of TWC and its business and have a negative impact on its revenues. TWC also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection, privacy and security of personal information, information-related risks are increasing, particularly for businesses like TWC’s that handle a large amount of personal customer data. TWC’s business may be adversely affected if TWC cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which its business depends. TWC relies on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses and other agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers, and other parties, to establish and maintain its intellectual property rights in technology and the products and services used in TWC’s operations. However, any of TWC’s intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit TWC to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm. Claims of intellectual property infringement could require TWC to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, which could require TWC to change its business practices or offerings and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even claims without merit can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management’s attention and resources away from TWC’s businesses. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change, TWC relies on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and TWC may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, if at all. TWC is party to agreements with Time Warner and an affiliate of Time Warner governing the use of “Time Warner Cable” and “Road Runner” that may be terminated if TWC fails to perform its obligations under those agreements or if TWC undergoes a specified change of control. TWC licenses “Time Warner Cable” and “Road Runner” from Time Warner and an affiliate of Time Warner, respectively. These license agreements may be terminated by Time Warner or its affiliate if TWC commits a significant breach of its obligations under such agreements, undergoes a specified change of control, or materially fails to maintain the quality standards established for the use of these trademarks and the products and services related to these trademarks. If Time Warner or its affiliate terminates these brand name license agreements, TWC would lose the goodwill associated with its brand names and be forced to develop new brand names, which would likely require substantial expenditures, and TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The accounting treatment of goodwill and other identified intangibles could result in future asset impairments, which would be recorded as operating losses. Authoritative guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) requires that goodwill, including the goodwill included in the carrying value of investments accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, such as cable franchise rights, cease to be amortized. The guidance requires that goodwill and certain intangible assets be tested annually for impairment or earlier upon the occurrence of certain events or substantive changes in circumstances. If TWC finds that the carrying value of goodwill or a certain intangible asset exceeds its estimated fair value, it will reduce the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset to the estimated fair value, and TWC will recognize an impairment. Any such impairment is required to be recorded as a noncash operating loss. 18 Table of Contents TWC’s 2009 annual impairment analysis, which was performed as of December 31, 2009, did not result in any goodwill or cable franchise rights impairment charges. However, it is possible that impairment charges may be recorded in the future to reflect potential declines in fair value. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Asset Impairments—Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets” and “—Long-lived Assets.” TWC has incurred substantial debt, which may limit its flexibility and prevent it from taking advantage of business opportunities. As of December 31, 2009, TWC had $21.583 billion of net debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred equity. This level of indebtedness may limit TWC’s ability to respond to market conditions, provide for capital investment needs or take advantage of business opportunities. Also, as a result of TWC’s increased borrowings in 2008 and 2009 to fund the Special Dividend, its interest expense will be higher than it was prior to the borrowings, which will affect TWC’s profitability and cash flows. Risks Related to Dependence on Third Parties Increases in programming and retransmission costs or the inability to obtain popular programming could adversely affect TWC’s operations, business or financial results. Video programming costs represent a major component of TWC’s expenses and are expected to continue to increase primarily due to the increasing cost of obtaining desirable programming, particularly broadcast and sports programming. TWC’s video programming costs as a percentage of video revenues have increased over recent years and will continue to increase over the next coming years as cable programming and broadcast station retransmission consent cost increases outpace growth in video revenues. Furthermore, providers of desirable content may be unwilling to enter into distribution arrangements with TWC on acceptable terms and owners of non-broadcast video programming content may enter into exclusive distribution arrangements with TWC’s competitors. A failure to carry programming that is attractive to TWC’s subscribers could adversely impact subscription and advertising revenues. TWC may not be able to obtain necessary hardware, software and operational support. TWC depends on third party suppliers and licensors to supply some of the hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of TWC’s services. Some of TWC’s hardware, software and operational support vendors represent TWC’s sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity. If demand exceeds these vendors’ capacity or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, especially in light of current economic and market conditions, TWC’s ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected. These events could materially and adversely affect TWC’s ability to retain and attract subscribers, and have a material negative impact on TWC’s operations, business, financial results and financial condition. TWC has multi-year agreements with Sprint under which it provides certain functions and services necessary to TWC in providing Digital Phone service to customers by routing voice traffic to and from destinations outside of TWC’s network via the public switched telephone network, delivering E911, operator and directory assistance service and assisting in order processing, local number portability and long-distance traffic carriage. TWC recently launched an initiative to replace Sprint as the provider of these services. However, the process will take a number of years, during which time TWC’s reliance on Sprint for these services may render TWC vulnerable to service disruptions and other operational difficulties, which could have an adverse effect on TWC’s business and financial results. TWC may encounter substantially increased pole attachment costs. Under federal law, TWC has the right to attach cables carrying video and other services to telephone and similar poles of investor-owned utilities at regulated rates. However, because these cables may carry services other than video services, such as high-speed data services or new forms of voice services, some utility pole owners have sought to impose additional fees for pole attachment. The U.S. Supreme Court has rejected the efforts of some utility pole owners to make cable attachments carrying Internet traffic ineligible for regulatory protection. Pole owners have, however, made arguments in other areas of pole regulation that, if successful, could significantly increase TWC’s costs. In November 2007, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that proposes to establish a single pole attachment rate for all utility pole owners carrying broadband Internet access services that would be higher than the rate charged for video and cable modem service. In addition, in August 2009, a coalition of electric utility companies petitioned the FCC to declare that the pole attachment rate for cable companies’ digital telephone service should be assessed at the higher rate paid by telecommunications providers rather than the rate paid by cable providers. Some of the poles TWC uses are exempt from federal regulation because they are owned by utility cooperatives and municipal entities. These entities may not renew TWC’s existing agreements when they expire, and they may require TWC to pay substantially increased fees. A number of these entities are currently seeking to impose substantial rate increases. Any increase in TWC’s pole attachment rates or inability to secure continued pole attachment agreements with these cooperatives or municipal utilities on commercially reasonable terms could cause TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition to suffer. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Government Regulation TWC’s business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could adversely affect its business. TWC’s video and voice services are subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. In addition, the federal government has extended some regulation to high-speed data services and is considering additional regulations. TWC is also subject to regulation of its video services relating to rates, equipment, technologies, programming, levels and types of services, taxes and other charges. Modification to existing regulations or the imposition of new regulations could have an adverse impact on TWC’s services. TWC expects that legislative enactments, court actions, and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and, in some cases, change the rights of cable companies and other entities providing video, high-speed data and voice services under the Communications Act and other laws, possibly in ways that TWC has not foreseen. The results of these legislative, judicial, and administrative actions may materially affect TWC’s business operations. Changes in broadcast carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on TWC. Although TWC would likely choose to carry the majority of primary feeds of full power stations voluntarily, so-called “must carry” rules require TWC to carry some local broadcast television signals on some of its cable systems that it might not otherwise carry. If the FCC seeks to revise or expand the “must carry” rules, such as to require carriage of multicast streams, TWC would be forced to carry video programming that it would not otherwise carry and potentially to drop other, more popular programming in order to free capacity for the required programming, which could make TWC less competitive. Moreover, if the FCC adopts rules that are not competitively neutral, cable operators could be placed at a disadvantage versus other multi-channel video providers. Under the program carriage rules, TWC could be compelled to carry programming services that it would not otherwise carry. The Communications Act and the FCC’s “program carriage” rules restrict cable operators and MVPDs from unreasonably restraining the ability of an unaffiliated programming vendor to compete fairly by discriminating against the programming vendor on the basis of its non-affiliation in the selection, terms or conditions for carriage. The FCC’s Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order imposes certain additional obligations related to these rules. Under a successful program carriage complaint, TWC might be compelled to carry programming services it would not otherwise carry and/or to do so on economic and other terms that it would not accept absent such compulsion. TWC is currently the defendant in two program carriage complaints. See “Business—Regulatory Matters—Video Services—Program access and Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order.” Compelled government carriage could reduce TWC’s ability to carry other, more desirable programming and non-video services, decrease its ability to manage its bandwidth efficiently and increase TWC’s costs, adversely affecting TWC’s competitive position. “Net neutrality” legislation or regulation could limit TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business profitably and to manage its broadband facilities efficiently to respond to growing bandwidth usage by TWC’s high-speed data customers. Several disparate groups have adopted the term “net neutrality” in connection with their efforts to persuade Congress and regulators to adopt rules that could limit the ability of broadband providers to effectively manage or operate their broadband networks. Proponents of net neutrality advocate a variety of regulations, including regulations which prohibit broadband providers from recovering the costs of rising bandwidth usage from any parties other than retail customers; require absolute nondiscrimination for any Internet traffic; and require forms of “open access.” In October 2009, the FCC initiated a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that proposes to adopt so-called “net neutrality” rules that it describes as intended to preserve the openness of the Internet. The proposed rules would apply to all providers of broadband Internet access services, whether wireline or wireless, but would not apply to providers of applications, content or other services. The FCC indicated that its comment process seeks comment both on its rationales for the draft proposals as well as their form and scope. Any final rules that ultimately may be adopted, depending upon their scope and terms, could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s broadband services. The average bandwidth usage of TWC’s high-speed data customers has been increasing significantly in recent years as the amount of high-bandwidth content and the number of applications available on the Internet continue to grow. In order to continue to provide quality service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses and demands and to manage bandwidth usage efficiently. As a result, depending on the form it might take, “net neutrality” legislation or regulation could adversely impact TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data network profitably and to undertake the upgrades that may be needed to continue to provide high quality high-speed data services and could negatively impact its ability to compete effectively. For a description of current regulatory proposals, see “Business—Regulatory Matters—High-speed Internet Access Services—‘Net neutrality’ legislative and regulatory proposals.” Rate regulation could materially adversely impact TWC’s operations, business, financial results or financial condition. Under current FCC regulations, rates for BST video service and associated equipment are permitted to be regulated. In the majority of its localities, TWC is not subject to BST video rate regulation, either because the local franchising authority has not asked the FCC for 20 Table of Contents permission to regulate rates or because the FCC has found that there is “effective competition.” Also, there is currently no rate regulation for TWC’s other services, including high-speed data and voice services. It is possible, however, that the FCC or Congress will adopt more extensive rate regulation for TWC’s video services or regulate other services, such as high-speed data and voice services, which could impede TWC’s ability to raise rates, or require rate reductions, and therefore could cause TWC’s business, financial results or financial condition to suffer. TWC may have to pay fees in connection with its cable modem service. Local franchising authorities generally require cable operators to pay a franchise fee of five percent of revenue, which cable operators collect in turn from their subscribers. TWC has taken the position that under the Communications Act, local franchising authorities are allowed to impose a franchise fee only on revenue from “cable services.” Following the FCC’s March 2002 determination that cable modem service does not constitute a “cable service,” TWC and most other multiple system operators stopped collecting and paying franchise fees on cable modem revenue. The FCC has initiated a rulemaking proceeding to explore the consequences of its March 2002 order. If either the FCC or a court were to determine that, despite the March 2002 order, TWC is required to pay franchise fees on cable modem revenue, TWC’s franchise fee burden could increase going forward. TWC would be permitted to collect those increased fees from its subscribers, but doing so could impair its competitive position as compared to high-speed data service providers who are not required to collect and pay franchise fees. TWC could also become liable for franchise fees back to the time TWC stopped paying them. TWC may not be able to recover those fees from subscribers. Most courts interpreting the rules, including several instances involving TWC, have determined that cable operators are not required to pay these fees on cable modem service. The IRS and state and local tax authorities may challenge the tax characterizations of the Adelphia Acquisition (as defined below), the Redemptions (as defined below) and the Exchange (as defined below), or TWC’s related valuations, and any successful challenge by the IRS or state or local tax authorities could materially adversely affect TWC’s tax profile, significantly increase TWC’s future cash tax payments and significantly reduce TWC’s future earnings and cash flow. The acquisition by TW NY Cable and Comcast of assets comprising in aggregate substantially all of the cable assets of Adelphia Communications Corporation (the “Adelphia Acquisition”) was designed to be a fully taxable asset sale, the redemption by TWC of Comcast’s interests in TWC (the “TWC Redemption”) was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Tax Code”), the redemption by TWE of Comcast’s interests in TWE (the “TWE Redemption” and collectively with the TWC Redemption, the “Redemptions”) was designed as a redemption of Comcast’s partnership interest in TWE, and the exchange between TW NY Cable and Comcast immediately after the Adelphia Acquisition (the “Exchange”) was designed as an exchange of designated cable systems. There can be no assurance, however, that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) or state or local tax authorities (collectively with the IRS, the “Tax Authorities”) will not challenge one or more of such characterizations or TWC’s related valuations. Such a successful challenge by the Tax Authorities could materially adversely affect TWC’s tax profile (including TWC’s ability to recognize the intended tax benefits from the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions), significantly increase TWC’s future cash tax payments and significantly reduce TWC’s future earnings and cash flow. The tax consequences of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and the Exchange are complex and, in many cases, subject to significant uncertainties, including, but not limited to, uncertainties regarding the application of federal, state and local income tax laws to various transactions and events contemplated therein and regarding matters relating to valuation. If the Separation Transactions, including the Distribution, do not qualify as tax-free, either as a result of actions taken or not taken by TWC or as a result of the failure of certain representations by TWC to be true, TWC has agreed to indemnify Time Warner for its taxes resulting from such disqualification, which would be significant. In addition, the restrictions imposed on TWC in connection with the tax treatment of the Distribution could limit TWC’s ability to engage in certain corporate transactions. As part of the Separation Transactions, Time Warner received a private letter ruling from the IRS and Time Warner and TWC received opinions of tax counsel confirming that the Separation Transactions should generally qualify as tax-free to Time Warner and its stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The ruling and opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations, and undertakings from Time Warner and TWC regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Time Warner and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinions and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinions, the IRS could determine on audit that the Separation Transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in the stock ownership of Time Warner or TWC after the Distribution. Under the tax sharing agreement among Time Warner and TWC, TWC generally would be required to indemnify Time Warner against its taxes resulting from the failure of any of the Separation Transactions to qualify as tax-free as a result of (i) certain actions or failures to act by TWC or (ii) the failure of certain representations made by TWC to be true. Due to the potential impact of significant 21 Table of Contents stock ownership changes on the taxability of the Separation Transactions, TWC’s indemnification obligations may prevent it from entering into transactions that might otherwise be advantageous, such as issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs or acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities if such issuances would exceed certain thresholds and such actions could be considered part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Distribution. In addition, even if TWC bears no contractual responsibility for taxes related to a failure of the Separation Transactions to qualify for their intended tax treatment, Treasury regulation section 1.1502-6 imposes on TWC several liability for all Time Warner federal income tax obligations relating to the period during which TWC was a member of the Time Warner federal consolidated tax group, including the date of the Separation Transactions. Similar provisions may apply under foreign, state, or local law. Absent TWC causing the Separation Transactions to not qualify as tax-free, Time Warner has indemnified TWC against such several liability arising from a failure of the Separation Transactions to qualify for their intended tax treatment. Tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges to the Company’s tax positions could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. TWC operates cable systems in locations throughout the United States and, as a result, it is subject to the tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments. From time to time, various legislative and/or administrative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect the Company’s tax positions. There can be no assurance that the Company’s effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. As a result of state and local budget shortfalls due primarily to the recession as well as other considerations, certain states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on TWC’s services or changing the methodologies or base on which certain fees and taxes are computed. Such potential changes include additional taxes or fees on the TWC’s services which could impact its customers, combined reporting and other changes to general business taxes, central/unit-level assessment of property taxes and other matters that could increase TWC’s income, franchise, sales, use and/or property tax liabilities. In addition, U.S. federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that TWC ’s tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that TWC would be successful in any such challenge. Applicable law is subject to change. The exact requirements of applicable law are not always clear, and the rules affecting TWC’s businesses are always subject to change. For example, the FCC may interpret its rules and regulations in enforcement proceedings in a manner that is inconsistent with the judgments TWC has made. Likewise, regulators and legislators at all levels of government may sometimes change existing rules or establish new rules. Congress, for example, considers new legislative requirements for cable operators virtually every year, and there is always a risk that such proposals will ultimately be enacted. In addition, federal, state or local governments and/or tax authorities may change tax laws, regulations or administrative practices that could negatively impact TWC’s operating results and financial condition. See “Business—Regulatory Matters.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 