Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this report, you should consider the following risk factors before investing in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to attract and retain enough sufficiently trained customer service associates and other personnel to support our operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be seriously harmed. We rely on large numbers of customer service associates, and our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified customer service associates. Companies in the business process outsourcing, or BPO, market, including us, experience high employee attrition. In 2007, our attrition rate for our customer service associates who remained with us following a 45-day training and orientation period was on average approximately 6.3% per month in the United States, a decrease of approximately 0.4% from 2006 and approximately 1.9% per month in the Philippines, an increase of approximately 0.2%. A significant increase in the attrition rate among our customer service associates could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity. There is significant competition in the Philippines and the United States for employees with the skills necessary to perform the services we offer to our clients. Increased competition for these employees, in the BPO market or otherwise, could harm our business. Our failure to attract, train and retain customer service associates with the qualifications necessary to fulfill the needs of our existing and future clients would seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. A few major clients account for most of our revenue and a loss of business from these clients could reduce our revenue and seriously harm our business. We have derived and believe that we will continue to derive in the near term most of our revenue from a few major clients. We received an aggregate of approximately 83% of our revenue from our five largest clients for the year ended December 31, 2007. We do not have long term contracts with any of our clients. Our contracts with our clients typically have a term of one year and can be terminated earlier by our clients or us without cause, typically upon 30 to 90 days’ notice. A number of factors could cause us to lose business or revenue from a client, and some of these factors are not predictable and are beyond our control. For example, a client may demand price reductions, change its outsourcing strategy, move work in-house or reduce previously 15 Table of Contents forecasted demand. In addition, the volume of work we perform for specific clients is likely to vary from year to year, since our contractual commitments only last one year and we usually are not the exclusive outsourced service provider for our clients. In most cases, if a client terminates its contract with us or does not meet its forecasted demand, we have no contractual recourse even if we have hired and trained customer service associates to provide services to the client. Thus, a major client in one period may not provide the same level of revenue in any subsequent period. For example, in the third quarter of 2007, one of our largest clients terminated one of its significant programs with us. The loss of some or all of the business from any large client could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating margin will suffer if we are not able to maintain our pricing, utilize our employees and assets efficiently or maintain and improve the current mix of services that we deliver from our offshore locations. Our operating income as a percentage of our revenue, which we refer to as our operating margin, is largely a function of the prices that we are able to charge for our services, the efficient use of our assets and the location from which we deliver services. Our business model is predicated on our ability to objectively quantify the value that we provide to our clients. We must also manage our employees and assets efficiently. In addition, we must continue to sell new programs for and migrate existing programs to our offshore delivery locations. If we fail to succeed on any of these objectives, we may not be able to sustain our current operating margin. If a client terminates a program with us we may be unable to re-assign customer service associates who worked on that program in a timely manner, which could harm our operating results. The rates we are able to recover for our services, our ability to manage our assets efficiently and the location from which we deliver our services are affected by a number of factors, including: • our clients’ perceptions of our ability to add value through our services; • our ability to objectively differentiate and verify the value we offer to our clients; • competition; • the introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors; • our ability to estimate demand for our services; • our ability to control our costs and improve the efficiency of our employees; and • general economic and political conditions. During 2007, our margins declined despite the benefit of a higher mix of lower cost Philippine-generated revenue in 2007 compared to 2006, due to the significant appreciation of the Philippine peso. Our revenue is highly dependent on a few industries and any decrease in demand for outsourced business processes in these industries could reduce our revenue and seriously harm our business. 16 Table of Contents Most of our clients are concentrated in the communications and technology services industries. For the years ended December 31 2007 and 2006, we derived 76% and 77%, respectively, of our revenue from clients in these industries. The success of our business largely depends on continued demand for our services from clients in these industries, as well as on trends in these industries to outsource business processes. A downturn in any of our targeted industries, a slowdown or reversal of the trend to outsource business processes in any of these industries or the introduction of regulations that restrict or discourage companies from outsourcing could result in a decrease in the demand for our services, which in turn could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Other developments may also lead to a decline in the demand for our services in these industries. For example, the industries we primarily serve, particularly the communications industry, have experienced a significant level of consolidation in recent years. Consolidation in any of these industries or acquisitions, particularly involving our clients, may decrease the potential number of buyers of our services. Any significant reduction in, or the elimination of, the use of the services we provide within any of these industries would reduce our revenue and harm our business. Our clients may experience rapid changes in their prospects, substantial price competition and pressure on their results of operations. This may result in increasing pressure on us from clients in these key industries to lower our prices, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. One of our major clients is Vonage, who has been and may in the future be, subject to damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation that could adversely affect its business and its continued viability, which, in turn, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we derived 13% and 7% of our revenue from Vonage. Vonage has been named as a defendant in several lawsuits that relate to alleged patent infringement and may be subject to infringement claims in the future. Vonage recently entered into an agreement to settle its patent infringement litigation with each of Sprint, Verizon Services Corp. and AT & T which included aggregate cash payments by Vonage of approximately $240 million over specified terms. The recent agreements to pay up to an aggregate of $240 million combined with the potential impact of future patent litigation could materially and adversely affect Vonage’s business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as the continued viability of Vonage. In addition, Vonage has $253 million in convertible debt which can be put to Vonage in December 2008 if the terms of this debt are not otherwise amended prior to this time. As a result of our significant client relationship with Vonage, any determination against Vonage in patent litigation, the agreement by Vonage to make large settlement payments and the maturity of its outstanding debt obligations could, in turn, harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face competition from onshore and offshore business process outsourcing companies and from information technology companies that also offer business process outsourcing services. Our clients may also choose to run their business processes themselves. The market for business process outsourcing services is very competitive and we expect competition to intensify and increase from a number of sources. We face significant competition from our clients’ own in-house groups, including, in some cases, in-house departments operating offshore. For example, one of our clients did not renew its contract with us in 2006 as a result of 17 Table of Contents its decision to move the services we previously provided them to an in-house department. We also face competition from onshore and offshore business process outsourcing and information technology services companies. The trend toward offshore outsourcing, international expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and continuing technological changes will result in new and different competitors entering our markets. These competitors may include entrants from the communications, software and data networking industries or entrants in geographic locations with lower costs than those in which we operate. Some of these existing and future competitors have greater financial, human and other resources, longer operating histories, greater technological expertise, more recognizable brand names and more established relationships than we do in the industries that we currently serve or may serve in the future. Some of our competitors may enter into strategic or commercial relationships among themselves or with larger, more established companies in order to increase their ability to address client needs. Increased competition, pricing pressure or loss of market share could reduce our operating margin, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to manage our growth effectively and maintain effective internal processes, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Since we were founded in 1999, we have experienced rapid growth and significantly expanded our operations. We have seven delivery centers in the Philippines and six in the United States. The number of our employees has increased from 3,041 as of December 31, 2003 to approximately 13,100 as of December 31, 2007. In 2004, we acquired Phase 2, which contributed significantly to our growth during this period. In 2007, we added approximately 1,100 employees due to our acquisition of AOL Philippines. We have a geographically dispersed workforce with approximately 10,400 employees in the Philippines and approximately 2,700 employees in the United States as of December 31, 2007. We intend to continue expansion to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. Depending on client demand and the speed at which clients migrate our services to offshore locations, we may be required to set up more delivery locations both onshore and offshore. This rapid growth across international offices places significant demands on our management and operational resources. In order to manage our growth effectively, we must implement and improve operational systems and procedures on a timely basis. If we fail to implement these systems and procedures on a timely basis, we may not be able to service our clients’ needs, hire and retain new employees, pursue new business, complete future acquisitions or operate our business effectively. Failure to transfer new client business to our delivery centers effectively, properly budget transfer costs or accurately estimate operational costs associated with new contracts could result in delays in executing client contracts and reduce our operating margin. Any of these problems associated with expansion could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not succeed in identifying suitable acquisition targets or integrating any acquired business into our operations, which could significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our growth strategy involves gaining new clients and expanding our service offerings, both organically and possibly through strategic acquisitions. Historically, we have expanded some of 18 Table of Contents our service offerings and gained new clients through strategic acquisitions, such as our acquisition of Phase 2 in 2004 and AOL Philippines in 2007. It is possible that in the future we may not succeed in identifying suitable acquisition targets available for sale on reasonable terms, have access to the capital required to finance potential acquisitions or be able to consummate any acquisition. The inability to identify suitable acquisition targets or investments or the inability to complete such transactions may affect our competitiveness and our growth prospects. Our management may not be able to successfully integrate any acquired business into our operations and any acquisition we do complete may not result in long-term benefits to us. For example, if we acquire a company, we could experience difficulties in assimilating that company’s personnel, operations, technology and software. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. The dilutive nature of any of our acquisitions could significantly harm our operating results. Future acquisitions may also result in our incurrence of indebtedness or our issuance of additional equity securities, which could dilute your investment. Acquisitions also typically involve a number of other risks, including diversion of management’s attention, legal liabilities and the need to amortize acquired intangible assets, any of which could significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our senior management team has worked at the Company for a limited period of time, and the failure of our senior management team to integrate effectively could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Members of our senior management team have worked together for a limited period of time. For example, we appointed our current senior vice president, global operations and our current senior vice president and chief information officer in August 2007. Our success depends to a significant extent on the ability of our executives to function effectively in their roles and to work together successfully. If our executives do not function and work together successfully or if we lose the services of one or more of our executives, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. If our clients are not successful, the amount of business that they outsource and the prices that they are willing to pay for our services may diminish, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenue depends on the success of our clients. If our clients are not successful, the amount of business that they outsource and the prices that they are willing to pay for our services may diminish. In the past, we have experienced declining business and have faced problems collecting fees from clients for services we already performed as a result of a decline in our client’s business or financial condition. For example, one of our clients declared bankruptcy in 2006, and we recorded a reserve for $212,450 for our services to that client. In substantially all of our client programs, we generate revenue based, in large part, on the amount of time our customer service associates devote to our clients’ customers. Consequently, the amount of revenue generated from any particular client program is dependent upon customers’ interest in, and use of, our clients’ products or services. Our clients’ decisions about how much money to budget for outsourced services is directly impacted by their own financial success and forecasts of their customers’ needs. If our clients’ products or services do not attract sufficient customer attention, our revenue could decline and our results of operations and financial condition could suffer. 19 Table of Contents We normally encounter a lengthy sales cycle and may not recover the investments we must make in order to obtain a new client. Our sales cycle typically lasts between six and 12 months and requires us to spend a considerable amount of resources that we may never recover. Potential clients require that we spend substantial time and money educating them as to the value of our services and assessing the feasibility of integrating our systems and processes with theirs. Our pricing structure and the competitive nature of our industry typically precludes us from charging our customers for these initial costs. Decisions relating to outsourcing business processes generally involve the evaluation of our services by our clients’ senior management and a significant number of client personnel in various functional areas, each having specific and often conflicting requirements. We may spend significant funds and management resources during our sales cycle and ultimately the client may not decide to use our services. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales after spending significant funds and management resources, or if we experience delays in our sales cycle, it could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Once we obtain a new client, our implementation cycle is long and may require us to make significant resource commitments. The implementation of our programs involves significant resource commitments by us and our clients. When we are engaged by a client after the sales cycle, it generally takes us from four to six weeks to integrate the client’s systems with ours and up to three months thereafter to ramp up our services to the client’s initial requirements. Our contracts typically allow our clients to terminate a program without cause upon 30 to 90 days’ notice. If our client terminates a program after we have completed the implementation cycle, we may not be able to recoup the costs we have incurred in connection with that program, which could significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results may differ from period to period, which may make it difficult for us to prepare accurate internal financial forecasts. Our operating results may differ significantly from period to period due to factors such as: • client losses or program terminations; • variations in the volume of business from clients resulting from changes in our clients’ operations; • significant changes in value of the dollar relative to foreign currencies; • delays or difficulties in expanding our operational facilities and infrastructure; • changes to our pricing structure or that of our competitors; • inaccurate estimates of resources and time required to complete ongoing programs; • our ability to successfully open new delivery centers or to expand delivery centers in a timely fashion; 20 Table of Contents • the efficiency with which we use our operations to service our clients; • the relative mix of services performed by our U.S. and Philippine operations; • our sources of pre-tax income, which will impact our overall effective tax rate; • ability to hire and train new employees; and • seasonal changes in the operations of our clients. For example, some of our clients experience seasonal changes in their operations in connection with the year-end holiday season and the school year. Transaction volumes can be impacted by market conditions affecting the technology, communications and financial industries, as well as other events such as natural disasters and terrorist attacks. In addition, most of our contracts do not commit our clients to providing us with a specific volume of business. All of these factors make it difficult for us to prepare accurate internal financial forecasts. We recognize revenue when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transactions will flow to us and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. Accordingly, the financial benefit of our gaining a new client or program may be delayed due to delays in the implementation of our services. Due to these factors, it is possible that in some future quarters our operating results may be significantly below the expectations of the public market, analysts and investors. Some of our client contracts contain provisions that could reduce our anticipated revenue and harm our business. The billing structure for some of our largest client contracts includes provisions that vary our billing rates depending on our performance levels. Some of these provisions have the effect of reducing our revenue in periods in which we fail to meet certain performance criteria. Other provisions in some of our contracts require us to give our clients the best price for a particular program that we give to our other clients for similar programs. Any of these provisions could reduce our revenue and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have incurred losses in the past and have a limited operating history. We may not be profitable in the future and may not be able to secure additional business. We incurred net losses of $5.6 million, $1.5 million and $1.8 million in 2001, 2002 and 2005, respectively. In future periods, we expect our selling and administrative expenses to continue to increase. If our revenue does not grow at a faster rate than these expected increases in our expenses, or if our operating expenses are higher than we anticipate, we may incur additional losses. We have a limited operating history in providing the business process outsourcing services we currently provide and continue to explore opportunities to provide other outsourced services that we have never provided. We may not be able to secure additional business or retain current business with our current clients or add new clients in the future who wish to use the services we currently offer or may offer in the future. Additionally, factors outside of our control, such as a significant appreciation of the Philippine peso, may reduce our profitability. 21 Table of Contents We are liable to our clients for damages caused by unauthorized disclosure of sensitive and confidential information, whether through a breach of our computer systems, our employees or otherwise. We are typically required to manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client data in connection with the services we provide. Some of our clients are subject to U.S. federal and state regulations requiring the protection of sensitive customer information and pending legislation would increase the range of possible penalties for certain entities that fail to protect this information. Under the terms of our client contracts, we are required to keep sensitive customer information strictly confidential. We employ measures to protect sensitive and confidential client data and have not experienced any material breach of confidentiality to date. However, if any person, including any of our employees, penetrates our network security or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates sensitive or confidential client data, we could be subject to significant liability and lawsuits from our clients or their customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Although we have insurance coverage for mismanagement or misappropriation of this information by our employees, that coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claims. Penetration of the network security of our data centers or any failure to protect confidential information could have a negative impact on our reputation, which would harm our business. Our clients may adopt technologies that decrease the demand for our services, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We target clients that need our BPO services and we depend on their continued need of our services. However, over time, our clients may adopt new technologies that decrease the need for live customer interaction, such as interactive voice response, web-based self-help and other technologies used to automate interactions with customers. The adoption of these technologies could reduce the demand for our services, create pricing pressure and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business may not develop in ways that we currently anticipate due to negative public reaction to offshore outsourcing and recently proposed legislation. We have based our growth strategy on certain assumptions regarding our industry, services and future demand in the market for our services. However, the trend to outsource business processes may not continue and could reverse. Offshore outsourcing is a politically sensitive topic in the United States and elsewhere. For example, many organizations and public figures in the United States have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing providers and the loss of jobs in the United States. There has been recent publicity about some negative experiences that organizations have had with offshore outsourcing, such as theft and misappropriation of sensitive client data. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends towards offshore outsourcing would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that operate solely out of facilities located in the United States. 22 Table of Contents A variety of U.S. federal and state legislation has been proposed that, if enacted, could restrict or discourage U.S. companies from outsourcing services outside the United States. For example, legislation has been proposed that would require offshore providers of services requiring direct interaction with clients’ customers to identify to clients’ customers where the offshore provider is located. Because substantially all of our clients are located in the United States, any expansion of existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. It is possible that legislation could be adopted that would restrict U.S. private sector companies that have federal or state government contracts from outsourcing their services to offshore service providers. This would also affect our ability to attract or retain clients that have these contracts. Our failure to adhere to regulations that govern our business could hinder our ability to effectively perform our services. Our failure to adhere to regulations that govern our clients’ businesses could result in breaches of our contracts with our clients. Our clients’ business operations are subject to certain rules and regulations in the United States, such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the customer privacy provisions of the Communication Act. Our clients may contractually require that we perform our services in a manner that would enable them to comply with such rules and regulations. Failure to perform our services in compliance with these laws could result in breaches of contracts with our clients and, in some limited circumstances, civil fines and criminal penalties for us. Our operations are also subject to various U.S. federal and state regulations. The Federal Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act of 1994 broadly authorizes the FTC to issue regulations restricting certain telemarketing practices and prohibiting misrepresentations in telephone sales. A portion of our revenue is based on outbound marketing sales, which subjects us to these regulations. In addition, we are required under various Philippine laws to obtain and maintain permits and licenses for the conduct of our business. If we do not maintain our licenses or other qualifications to provide our services, we may not be able to provide services to existing clients or be able to attract new clients and could lose revenue, which could harm our business. The international nature of our business exposes us to several risks, such as unexpected changes in the regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. We have operations in the Philippines and United States. Our corporate structure also spans multiple jurisdictions, with our parent company incorporated in the Philippines and operating subsidiaries incorporated in the United States. As a result, we are exposed to risks typically associated with conducting business internationally, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: • legal uncertainty owing to the overlap of different legal regimes, and problems in asserting contractual or other rights across international borders; • currency fluctuations, particularly since our revenues and expenses are denominated in only two currencies; • potential tariffs and other trade barriers; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and 23 Table of Contents • the burden and expense of complying with the laws and regulations of various jurisdictions. The occurrence of any of these events could significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also face challenges in managing a geographically dispersed workforce. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 10,400 employees in the Philippines and approximately 2,700 employees in the United States. Our management is often required to manage employees remotely and must take into account diverse local laws and customs. If we are unable to manage our dispersed workforce and other resources effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be significantly harmed. If the operations of our delivery centers are interrupted, the amount of revenue we receive under our client contracts could decline and our results of operations and financial condition could suffer. We operate delivery centers in the Philippines and the United States, which requires us to maintain active data and voice communications between our delivery centers and our clients’ offices. Although we maintain redundant facilities and communications links, disruptions could result from, among other things, technical and electricity breakdowns, computer glitches and viruses and adverse weather conditions. For example, in 2006 one of our delivery centers in the Philippines was shut down for several hours as a result of damage to telecommunication lines servicing that delivery center. Our operational facilities and communication hubs may also be damaged in natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, monsoons, tsunamis and typhoons. For example, in 2003 and 2004, the operations in our Philippine delivery centers were periodically interrupted as a result of heavy rains. Such natural disasters may lead to disruption of information systems and telephone service for sustained periods. Most of our client contracts are structured so that we are paid based on the amount of time our employees dedicate to providing services to our clients. Any significant failure of our equipment or systems, or any major disruption to basic infrastructure like power and telecommunications in the locations in which we operate, could impede our ability to provide services to our clients, have a negative impact on our reputation, cause us to lose clients, reduce our revenue and harm our business. Governmental authorities may challenge our intercompany pricing policies or may change or seek to apply their laws in a manner that could increase our effective tax rate or otherwise harm our business. We are a Philippine corporation doing business in the Philippines and, through subsidiaries, in the United States, and are subject to the tax rules of multiple jurisdictions. Our intercompany pricing policies address the pricing of transactions within our multi-entity organization, particularly cross-border transactions, including the transfer of goods and services and intercompany financing. Authorities in the United States and in the Philippines may examine our intercompany pricing policies and other aspects of our operations. As a result of such examinations, our effective tax rate could increase. In addition, it may be asserted that we are a resident for tax purposes of the United States and, as a consequence, subject to U.S. tax on income earned in the Philippines. Legislative proposals in the United States, if enacted, could also bring about this result. 24 Table of Contents We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company subject to the Philippine Securities Regulation Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and our management faces challenges in implementing those requirements. We expect to continue to incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses associated with operating as a public company. We must comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in the Philippines, the country in which we are incorporated, and the United States, where we have publicly listed our ADSs. The Philippine Securities Regulation Code and the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Global Market, have imposed increased regulation and required enhanced corporate governance practices of public companies. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard are likely to result in increased selling and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. For example, we are in the process of evaluating and testing our internal financial reporting controls in anticipation of compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and have not yet completed this process. We have formed internal evaluation committees and engaged consultants and expect to upgrade our computer software systems to assist us in such compliance. If we do not implement and comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could harm our business or investors’ confidence in us and could cause our share price to fall. Future litigation may result in significant costs for defense purposes or for settlement purposes, both of which may or may not be covered by our current insurance policies. Litigation may also divert management focus from our business and could significantly impact our financial results. From time to time, we are subject to litigation proceedings. For example, we settled a claim in 2006 relating to our acquisition of Phase 2 and we recently settled a litigation claim brought by a former employee. Although this specific litigation was resolved, we cannot predict whether any other material suits, claims or investigations may arise in the future. Irrespective of the outcome of any potential lawsuits or potential actions, claims or investigations, we may incur substantial legal costs and possibly settlement costs, which may or may not be covered by insurance. Litigation may also divert management’s attention from our business, which could also harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our current tax holidays in the Philippines will expire within the next several years. We currently benefit from income tax holiday incentives in the Philippines pursuant to our registrations with the Philippine Economic Zone Authority, or PEZA, which provide that we pay no income tax in the Philippines for four or six years pursuant to our PEZA registrations. Our current income tax holidays expire at staggered dates through 2012. One of our delivery center sites’ income tax holidays that was set to expire in the second half of 2007 was approved by PEZA in December 2007 for conversion to Pioneer holiday status. This allows for an additional two years of tax holiday for that site with expiration in 2009. We anticipate income tax holidays for two of our delivery center sites to expire in the second half of 2008. We intend to apply for an extension or conversion to Pioneer holiday status prior to expiration. 25 Table of Contents We believe that as our Philippine tax holidays expire, gross income attributable to activities covered by our PEZA registrations will be taxed at a 5% preferential rate and our Philippine net income attributable to all other activities will be taxed at the regular Philippine corporate income tax rates of 35%. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we had an effective income tax rate of 2.0% for the Philippine portion of our consolidated profit before income taxes. The expiration of our tax holidays will increase our effective income tax rate and may impair our competitive position against BPO companies based outside of the Philippines. Risks Related to Doing Business in the Philippines We may face wage inflation in the Philippines and increased competition for our Philippine employees, which could increase our employment costs and our attrition. We have not historically experienced significant wage inflation with our Philippine employees. We are faced, however, with increasing competition in the Philippines for customer service associates, and we expect this competition will continue to increase as additional outsourcing companies enter the market and expand their operations. In particular, there may be limited availability of qualified middle and upper management candidates. We have benefited from an excess supply of college graduates in the Philippines. If this favorable imbalance changes due to increased competition, it could affect the availability and the cost of customer service associates and increase our attrition rate. The Philippines has experienced political and economic instability as well as civil unrest and terrorism, which could disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. The Philippines has experienced significant inflation, currency declines and shortages of foreign exchange. We are exposed to the risk of rental and other cost increases due to inflation in the Philippines, which has historically been at a much higher rate than in the United States. The Philippines also periodically experiences civil unrest and terrorism and U.S. companies in particular may experience greater risk. These conditions could disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. Further Strengthening of the Philippine peso relative to the U.S. dollar could increase our expenses. Substantially all of our revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, and a significant portion of our costs is incurred and paid in Philippine pesos. We are therefore exposed to the risk of an increase in the value of the Philippine peso relative to the U.S. dollar, which would increase our expenses. We initiated in the third quarter of 2007 a strategy to hedge against short-term foreign currency fluctuations. For 2008, we plan to hedge approximately 90% of our 2008 forecasted Philippine peso-denominated expenses using non-deliverable forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges in accordance with the criteria established in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 133 “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”. While we expect that our derivative instruments will continue to meet the conditions for hedge accounting, if the hedges did not qualify as highly effective or if we did not believe that forecasted transactions would occur, the changes in the fair value of the derivatives used as hedges would be recorded immediately into earnings, which may harm our financial condition. We will continue to reevaluate our hedge strategy and adjust the percentage of expenses hedged depending on certain external economic factors and indicators. Our hedging 26 Table of Contents strategy, however, may not sufficiently protect us from further strengthening of the Philippine peso, which could increase our expenses and harm our operating results. Additionally, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Philippine peso, our hedging strategy could reduce the potential benefits we would otherwise expect from a strengthening U.S. dollar. It may be difficult for you to effect service of process and enforce legal judgments against us or our affiliates. We are incorporated in the Philippines. Some of our directors are not residents of the United States and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon some of our directors or us. In addition, you may be unable to enforce judgments obtained in courts of the United States against those persons outside the jurisdiction of their residence, including judgments predicated solely upon the securities laws of the United States. Our stockholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as stockholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in the Philippines. Legal principles such as a director’s or officer’s duty of care and loyalty, and the fiduciary duties of controlling stockholders exist in the Philippines. However, these principles are relatively untested in Philippine courts, and their application is uncertain, in comparison to their application in U.S. courts. As a result, our U.S and Philippine stockholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management, members of our board of directors or our controlling stockholders than they would as stockholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. Risks Related to our ADSs and Common Shares We listed our common shares on the Philippine Stock Exchange, which could increase the volatility of the market price for our ADSs. We completed the process to list our common shares on the Philippine Stock Exchange, or PSE, in late November 2007. Our outstanding common shares could become more liquid as a result of our listing of our common shares on the PSE. Following our PSE listing, our shareholders may decide to sell their common shares on the PSE for tax or other reasons. Any sales of our common shares on the PSE could increase the volatility of the market price for our ADSs in the United States. The market price for our ADSs has been volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been volatile. For example, in the year ended December 31, 2007, the closing price of our ADSs ranged from a low of $7.53 on September 10, 2007 to a high of $17.93 on July 16, 2007. The market price for our ADSs could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; 27 Table of Contents • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of our competitors; • sales or expected sales of additional common shares or ADSs; and • loss of one or more significant clients. In addition, securities markets generally and from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our stockholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the Depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or The Philippine Securities Regulation Code, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act or The Philippine Securities Regulation Code with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act or The Philippine Securities Regulation Code. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. Our corporate actions could be substantially influenced by officers, directors, principal stockholders and affiliated entities. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliated entities beneficially own a substantial amount of our outstanding common shares. These stockholders, if they acted together, could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including electing directors and approving mergers and acquisitions. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their ADSs as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the market price for our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other stockholders. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. ADSs are transferable on the books of the Depositary. However, the Depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the Depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the Depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the Depositary deem it necessary or advisable to do so because of any requirement of law, any government, governmental body or commission or any securities exchange on which our ADSs or our common shares are listed, or under any provision of the deposit agreement or provisions of, or governing, the deposited securities or any meeting of our stockholders, or for any other reason. 28 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 