Risk Factors Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below as well as the other information contained and incorporated by reference in this annual report. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of such risks actually occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, cash flows and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Keegan has not yet achieved profitable operations and expects to incur further losses in the development of its business, all of which casts substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon its ability to generate future profitable operations and/or to obtain the necessary financing to meet its obligations and repay its liabilities arising from normal business operations when they come due. The Company has not earned any material revenues to date and has been funding its operations from the sale of common stock. This raises substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Keegan has no revenues from operations and no ongoing mining operations of any kind. The chances of Keegan ever reaching the development stage are remote. The expenditures to be made by Keegan in the exploration of its properties as described herein may not result in discoveries of mineralized material in commercial quantities. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable ore deposits and this occurrence could ultimately result in Keegan having to cease operations. Management feels that if exploration efforts were unsuccessful for a period of ten years, the Company would cease operations. If that were the case, investors would lose their entire investment in the company. Keegan has no known reserves on the properties in which it has an interest and if reserves are not defined the Company could have to cease operations. Although Keegan’s Esaase property has been determined to contain mineral resources, the properties in which Keegan has an interest or the concessions in which Keegan has the right to earn an interest are in the exploratory stage only. None of the Company’s properties have any known reserves. If Keegan does not ultimately find a body of ore to extract, it would have to cease operations. As stated above, management believes that if reserves are not defined on any of the properties on which Keegan has an interest after a period of ten years, the Company would cease operations. If that were the case, investors would lose their entire investment in the Company. 4 Keegan has no positive cash flow and no recent history of significant earnings and is dependent upon public and private distributions of equity to obtain capital in order to sustain operations. The sale of securities to the public results in dilution to existing shareholders. None of Keegan’s properties have advanced to the commercial production stage and Keegan has no history of earnings or positive cash flow from operations. Keegan does not know if it will ever generate material revenue from mining operations or if it will ever achieve self-sustaining commercial mining operations. Historically, the only source of funds available to Keegan has been through the sale of its common shares. Any future additional equity financing would cause dilution to current stockholders. Keegan currently has 3,528,315 share purchase options outstanding and 5,819,250 share purchase warrants outstanding. If all of the share purchase warrants and share purchase options were exercised, the number of common shares issued and outstanding would increase from 27,467,648 (as of March 31, 2008) to 36,815,213. This represents an increase of 34% in the number of shares issued and outstanding and would result in significant dilution to current shareholders. Dilution through employee/director/consultant options could adversely affect Keegan’s stockholders. Because the success of Keegan is highly dependent upon its respective employees, the Company has granted to some or all of its key employees, Directors and consultants options to purchase common shares as non-cash incentives. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be granted and exercised, the interests of the other stockholders of the Company may be diluted. There are currently 3,528,315 share purchase options outstanding, which, if exercised, would result in an additional 3,528,315 common shares being issued and outstanding. (For a breakdown of dilution, refer to the risk factor entitled: “Keegan Has Minimal Positive Cash Flow and No Recent History of Significant Earnings and Is Dependent Upon Public and Private Distributions of Equity to Obtain Capital in Order to Sustain Operations. Public distributions of capital result in dilution to existing shareholders”) The amount of capital necessary to meet regulations associated with the exploration programs of Keegan could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition. The current and anticipated future operations of Keegan, including further exploration activities require permits from various Federal and Provincial governmental authorities in Canada, the United States and the Republic of Ghana. Such operations are subject to various laws governing land use, the protection of the environment, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, mine safety and other matters. Unfavorable amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of resource exploration companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a materially adverse impact on the Company and cause increases in capital expenditures which could result in a cessation of operations by the Company. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions. Parties engaged in resource exploration may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violation of applicable laws or regulations. Large increases in capital expenditures resulting from any of the above factors could force Keegan to cease operations. If that were the case, investors would lose their entire investment in the Company. 5 Keegan faces significant competition. Keegan competes with other mineral resource exploration companies for financing, for the acquisition of new mineral properties and for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and other personnel. Many of the mineral resource exploration and development companies with which Keegan competes have greater financial and technical resources. Accordingly, these competitors maybe able to spend greater amounts on acquisitions of mineral properties of merit, on exploration of their mineral properties and on development of their mineral properties. In addition, they may be able to afford more geological expertise in the targeting and exploration of mineral properties. This competition could result in competitors having mineral properties of greater quality and interest to prospective investors who may finance additional exploration and development. This competition could have an adverse impact on our ability to financ e further exploration and to achieve the financing necessary for us to develop our properties. The risks associated with penny stock classification could affect the marketability of the common stock of Keegan and shareholders could find it difficult to sell their stock. Keegan’s stock is subject to “penny stock” rules as defined in 1934 Securities and Exchange Act rule 3a51-1. The Commission has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. Keegan ’s common shares are subject to these penny stock rules. Transaction costs associated with purchases and sales of penny stocks are likely to be higher than those for other securities. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than U.S. $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from such rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the Company’s common shares in the United States and shareholders may find it more difficult to sell their shares. Keegan is dependent on key personnel and the absence of any of these individuals could result in the Company having to cease operations. While engaged in the business of exploring mineral properties, the nature of Keegan’s business, its ability to continue its exploration of potential exploration projects, and to develop a competitive edge in the marketplace, depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and maintain qualified key management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and the Company may not be able to attract and retain such personnel. Keegan’s growth will depend, on the efforts of its Senior Management, particularly its President, Daniel T. McCoy, its Chief Financial Officer, Tony Ricci, its Corporate Secretary, Michael Bebek and its Board of Directors that includes Richard Haslinger, Robert McLeod, Mark Orsmond, and Gordon Fretwell, in addition to Mr. McCoy. Keegan does not carry key-man insurance on any individuals. 6 Operating hazards and risks associated with the mining industry could result in the Company having to cease operations. Resource exploration activities generally involve a high degree of risk. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected formations and other conditions are involved. Operations in which the Company has a direct or indirect interest will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration for precious and base metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to or destruction of exploration facilities, damage to life and property, environmental damage and legal liability for any or all damage. The Company may become subject to liability for cave-ins and other hazards for which it cannot insure or against which it may elect not to insure where premium costs are disproportionate to the Company’s perception of the relevant risks. The payment of such insurance premiums and of such liabilities would reduce the funds available for exploration activities and could force the Company to cease operations. P> U.S. investors may not be able to enforce their civil liabilities against us or our directors, controlling persons and officers. It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against Keegan. Keegan is a corporation incorporated in the province of British Columbia under the British Columbia Corporations Act. A majority of the Company's directors must be residents of Canada, and all or substantial portions of their assets are located outside of the United States, predominately in Canada. As a result, it may be difficult for U.S. holders of our common shares to effect service of process on these persons within the United States or to realize in the United States upon judgments rendered against them. In addition, a shareholder should not assume that the courts of Canada (i) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States, or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or such persons predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States. As a "Foreign Private Issuer”, Keegan is exempt from the Section 14 proxy rules and Section 16 of the 1934 Securities Act Results in Shareholders Having Less Complete and Timely Data. The submission of proxy and annual meeting of shareholder information (prepared to Canadian standards) on Form 6-K results in shareholders having less complete and timely data. The exemption from Section 16 rules regarding sales of common shares by insiders results in shareholders having less data in this regard. 