Risk Factors. In addition to the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in certain of our other filings with the SEC, the following risks and uncertainties, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by us or by any forward-looking statement contained herein. Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be profitable. As measured under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”), we have incurred a net loss in each of the last five fiscal years. In fiscal 2008, we incurred a net loss of $11.9 million and in fiscal 2007, we incurred a net loss of $21.8 million. We can give no assurance that we will be consistently profitable, if at all. We may experience impairment charges for our intangible assets or goodwill. As of June 27, 2008, the net carrying value of our intangible assets and goodwill totaled approximately $130.1 million and $284.2 million, respectively. Our intangible assets are subject to impairment testing in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets and our goodwill is subject to an impairment test in accordance with Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We review the carrying value of our intangible assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including a lack of recovery in the market price of our common stock or the fair value of our debt, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in the use of the intangible assets, and mergers and acquisitions could result in the need to reassess the fair value of our assets and liabilities which could lead to an impairment charge for any of our intangible assets or goodwill. An impairment charge related to our intangible assets or goodwill could have a significant effect on our financial position and results of operations in the periods recognized. We will face strong competition for maintaining and improving our position in the market, which could adversely affect our revenue growth and operating results. The wireless interconnection and access business is a specialized segment of the wireless telecommunications industry and is extremely competitive. We expect competition in this segment to increase. Some of our competitors have more extensive engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities and significantly greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. In addition, some of our competitors have greater name recognition, broader product lines, a larger installed base of products and longer-standing customer relationships. Our competitors include established companies, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Eltek ASA, Ericsson, NEC and Nokia Siemens Networks, as well as a number of smaller public companies and private companies such as Ceragon and Huawei Technologies in selected markets. Some of our competitors are original equipment manufacturers or systems integrators through whom we market and sell our products, which means our business success may depend on these competitors to some extent. One or more of our largest customers could internally develop the capability to manufacture products similar to those manufactured or outsourced by us and, as a result, the demand for our products and services may decrease. In addition, we compete for acquisition and expansion opportunities with many entities that have substantially greater resources than we have. Furthermore, our competitors may enter into business combinations in order to 16 Table of Contents accelerate product development or to engage in aggressive price reductions or other competitive practices, resulting in even more powerful or aggressive competitors. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors, including price, quality, availability, customer service and support, breadth of product line, product performance and features, rapid time-to-market delivery capabilities, reliability, timing of new product introductions by us, our customers and competitors, the ability of our customers to obtain financing and the stability of regional sociopolitical and geopolitical circumstances. We can give no assurances that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, or marketing, sales, distribution, customer service and support capabilities to compete successfully, or that regional sociopolitical and geographic circumstances will be favorable for our successful operation. Our average sales prices may decline in the future. Currently, manufacturers of digital microwave telecommunications equipment are experiencing, and are likely to continue to experience, declining sales prices. This price pressure is likely to result in downward pricing pressure on our products and services. As a result, we are likely to experience declining average sales prices for our products. Our future profitability will depend upon our ability to improve manufacturing efficiencies, reduce costs of materials used in our products, and to continue to introduce new lower-cost products and product enhancements. If we are unable to respond to increased price competition, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. Because customers frequently negotiate supply arrangements far in advance of delivery dates, we may be required to commit to price reductions for our products before we are aware of how, or if, cost reductions can be obtained. As a result, current or future price reduction commitments, and any inability on our part to respond to increased price competition, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Part of our inventory may be written off, which would increase our cost of revenues. In addition, we may be exposed to inventory-related losses on inventories purchased by our contract manufacturers. In fiscal 2006, we wrote off excess inventory resulting from our decision to terminate a legacy product line. The result of the write-off in fiscal 2006 was a charge to cost of external products sales of $34.9 million. In fiscal 2008, we had additional inventory impairment charges resulting from post-merger product transitioning and product end-of-life events. The result of the write-off in fiscal 2008 was a charge to cost of external products sales of $14.7 million. Inventory of raw materials, work in-process or finished products may accumulate in the future, and we may encounter losses due to a variety of factors including: • Rapid technological change in the wireless telecommunications industry resulting in frequent product changes; • The need of our contract manufacturers to order raw materials that have long lead times and our inability to estimate exact amounts and types of items thus needed, especially with regard to the frequencies in which the final products ordered will operate; and • Cost reduction initiatives resulting in component changes within the products. Further, our inventory of finished products may accumulate as the result of cancellation of customer orders or our customers’ refusal to confirm the acceptance of our products. Our contract manufacturers are required to purchase inventory based on manufacturing projections we provide to them. If our actual orders from our customers are lower than these manufacturing projections, our contract manufacturers will have excess inventory of raw materials or finished products which we would be required to purchase. In addition, we require our contract manufacturers from time to time to purchase more inventory than is immediately required, and to partially assemble components, in order to shorten our delivery time in case of an increase in demand for our products. In the absence of such increase in demand, we may need to compensate our contract manufacturers. If we are required to purchase excess inventory from our contract manufacturers or otherwise compensate our contract manufacturers for purchasing excess inventory, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We also may purchase components or raw materials from time to time for use by our contract manufacturers in the manufacturing of our products. These purchases are based on our own manufacturing projections. If our actual orders are lower than these manufacturing projections, we may accumulate excess 17 Table of Contents inventory which we may be required to write-off. If we are forced to write-off this inventory other than in the normal course of business, our business, financial condition, results of operations could be materially affected adversely. Because a significant amount of our revenue may come from a limited number of customers, the termination of any of these customer relationships may adversely affect our business. Sales of our products and services historically have been concentrated in a small number of customers. Principal customers for our products and services include domestic and international wireless/mobile service providers, original equipment manufacturers, as well as private network users such as public safety agencies; government institutions; and utility, pipeline, railroad and other industrial enterprises that operate broadband wireless networks. We had revenue from a single external customer that exceeded 10% of our total revenue during fiscal 2008 and 2006, but not during fiscal 2007. Although we have a large customer base, during any given quarter, a small number of customers may account for a significant portion of our revenue. It is possible that a significant portion of our future product sales also could be concentrated in a limited number of customers. In addition, product sales to major customers have varied widely from period to period. The loss of any existing customer, a significant reduction in the level of sales to any existing customer, or our inability to gain additional customers could result in declines in our revenue or an inability to grow revenue. If these revenue declines occur or if we are unable to create revenue growth, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be affected adversely. We may undertake further restructurings which may adversely impact our operations, and we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our prior or any future restructurings. We continue to restructure and transform our business to realign resources and achieve desired cost savings in an increasingly competitive market. During fiscal 2008 and 2007, we undertook restructuring activities implemented within the merger restructuring plans approved in connection with the January 26, 2007 merger between the Microwave Communications Division of Harris Corporation and Stratex Networks, Inc. These restructuring plans included the consolidation of facilities and operations of the predecessor entities in Canada, France, the U.S., China, Brazil and, to a lesser extent, Mexico, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. If we consolidate additional facilities in the future, we may incur additional restructuring and related expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have based our restructuring efforts on certain assumptions regarding the cost structure of our businesses. Our assumptions may or may not be correct and we may also determine that further restructuring will be needed in the future. We therefore cannot assure you that we will realize all of the anticipated benefits of the restructurings or that we will not further reduce or otherwise adjust our workforce or exit, or dispose of, certain businesses. Any decision by management to further limit investment, exit, or dispose of businesses may result in the recording of additional restructuring charges. As a result, the costs actually incurred in connection with the restructuring efforts may be higher than originally planned and may not lead to the anticipated cost savings and/or improved results. Our effective tax rate could be highly volatile and could adversely affect our operating results. Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: • The jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • Increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; • Changes in available tax credits; • Changes in share-based compensation expense; • Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • Changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and 18 Table of Contents • The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could impact our results of operations for future periods adversely. If we fail to accurately forecast our manufacturing requirements or customer demand or fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, we could incur additional costs or be unable to timely fulfill our customer commitments, which in either case would adversely affect our business and results of operations and, in the event of an inability to fulfill commitments, would harm our customer relationships. We outsource a substantial portion of our manufacturing and repair service operations to independent contract manufacturers and other third parties. Our contract manufacturers typically manufacture our products based on rolling forecasts of our product needs that we provide to them on a regular basis. The contract manufacturers are responsible for procuring components necessary to build our products based on our rolling forecasts, building and assembling the products, testing the products in accordance with our specifications and then shipping the products to us. We configure the products to our customer requirements, conduct final testing and then ship the products to our customers. Although we currently partner with multiple major contract manufacturers, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter problems as we become increasingly dependent on contract manufacturers to provide these manufacturing services or that we will be able to replace a contract manufacturer that is not able to meet our demand. If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements or forecast customer demand, we may incur additional costs of manufacturing and our gross margins and financial results could be adversely affected. If we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may experience an oversupply of components and assess us charges for excess or obsolete components that could adversely affect our gross margins. If we underestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate inventory or components, which could interrupt manufacturing and result in higher manufacturing costs, shipment delays, damage to customer relationships and/or our payment of penalties to our customers. Our contract manufacturers may also have other customers and may not have sufficient capacity to meet all of their customers’ needs, including ours, during periods of excess demand. In addition, if we fail to effectively manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers or other service providers, or if one or more of them should not fully comply with their contractual obligations or should experience delays, disruptions, component procurement problems or quality control problems, then our ability to ship products to our customers or otherwise fulfill our contractual obligations to our customers could be delayed or impaired which would adversely affect our business, financial results and customer relationships. Our products are used in critical communications networks which may subject us to significant liability claims. Since our products are used in critical communications networks, we may be subject to significant liability claims if our products do not work properly. The provisions in our agreements with customers that are intended to limit our exposure to liability claims may not preclude all potential claims. In addition, any insurance policies we have may not adequately limit our exposure with respect to such claims. We warrant to our current customers that our products will operate in accordance with our product specifications. If our products fail to conform to these specifications, our customers could require us to remedy the failure or could assert claims for damages. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any such claims, whether or not successful, would be costly and time-consuming to defend, and could divert management’s attention and seriously damage our reputation and our business. We may be subject to litigation regarding intellectual property associated with our wireless business; this litigation could be costly to defend and resolve, and could prevent us from using or selling the challenged technology. The wireless telecommunications industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. Any litigation regarding patents or 19 Table of Contents other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Such litigation or claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the use and transfer of allegedly infringing technology or the sale of allegedly infringing products and expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses for the infringing technology. We can give no assurances that we would be successful in developing such non-infringing technology or that any license for the infringing technology would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. This could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition, competitive position and prospects. As a subsidiary of Harris, we may have the benefit of one or more existing cross-license agreements between Harris and certain third parties, which may help protect us from infringement claims. If we cease to be a subsidiary of Harris, those benefits will be lost. Due to the significant volume of international sales we expect, we may be susceptible to a number of political, economic and geographic risks that could harm our business. We are highly dependent on sales to customers outside the U.S. In fiscal 2008, our sales to international customers accounted for 73% of total revenue. During fiscal 2007 and 2006, sales to international customers accounted for 67% and 55% of our revenue, respectively. Also, significant portions of our international sales are in less developed countries. Our international sales are likely to continue to account for a large percentage of our products and services revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, the occurrence of any international, political, economic or geographic event that adversely affects our business could result in a significant decline in revenue. Some of the risks and challenges of doing business internationally include: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • fluctuations in international currency exchange rates; • imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; • management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; • the burden of complying with a variety of laws and regulations in various countries; • application of the income tax laws and regulations of multiple jurisdictions, including relatively low-rate and relatively high-rate jurisdictions, to our sales and other transactions, which results in additional complexity and uncertainty; • general economic and geopolitical conditions, including inflation and trade relationships; • war and acts of terrorism; • natural disasters; • currency exchange controls; and • changes in export regulations. While these factors and the impacts of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. Our industry is volatile and subject to frequent changes, and we may not be able to respond effectively or in a timely manner to these changes. We participate in a highly volatile industry that is characterized by vigorous competition for market share and rapid technological development. These factors could result in aggressive pricing practices and growing competition both from start-up companies and from well-capitalized telecommunication systems providers, which could decrease our revenue. In response to changes in our industry and market conditions, we may restructure our activities to more strategically realign our resources. This includes assessing whether we should consider disposing 20 Table of Contents of, or otherwise exiting, certain businesses, and reviewing the recoverability of our tangible and intangible assets. Any decision to limit investment in our tangible and intangible assets or to dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of accrued liabilities for special charges, such as workforce reduction costs. Additionally, accounting estimates with respect to the useful life and ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets could change as a result of such assessments and decisions, and could harm our results of operations. If we fail to develop and maintain distribution and licensing relationships, our revenue may decrease. Although a majority of our sales are made through our direct sales force, we also will market our products through indirect sales channels such as independent agents, distributors, OEMs and systems integrators. These relationships enhance our ability to pursue major contract awards and, in some cases, are intended to provide our customers with easier access to financing and a greater variety of equipment and service capabilities, which an integrated system provider should be able to offer. We may not be able to maintain and develop additional relationships or, if additional relationships are developed, they may not be successful. Our inability to establish or maintain these distribution and licensing relationships could restrict our ability to market our products and thereby result in significant reductions in revenue. If these revenue reductions occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. Consolidation within the telecommunications industry could result in a decrease in our revenue. The telecommunications industry has experienced significant consolidation among its participants, and we expect this trend to continue. Some operators in this industry have experienced financial difficulty and have filed, or may file, for bankruptcy protection. Other operators may merge and one or more of our competitors may supply products to the customers of the combined company following those mergers. This consolidation could result in purchasing decision delays and decreased opportunities for us to supply products to companies following any consolidation. This consolidation may also result in lost opportunities for cost reduction and economies of scale. In addition, see the risks discussed in the factor above titled “Because a significant amount of our revenue may come from a limited number of customers, the termination of any of these customer relationships may adversely affect our business.” Our success will depend on new product introductions, product transitioning and acceptance. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. Our future success will depend, in part, on continuous, timely development and introduction of new products and enhancements that address evolving market requirements and are attractive to customers. We believe that successful new product introductions provide a significant competitive advantage because of the significant resources committed by customers in adopting new products and their reluctance to change products after these resources have been expended. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, significant resources on internal research and development to support our effort to develop and introduce new products and enhancements. As we transition to common product platforms, we may face significant risk that current customers may not accept these new products. To the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products that are adopted by customers, we could fail to obtain an adequate return on these investments and could lose market share to our competitors, which could be difficult or impossible to regain. Our customers may not pay for products and services in a timely manner, or at all, which would decrease our income and adversely affect our working capital. Our business requires extensive credit risk management that may not be adequate to protect against customer nonpayment. A risk of non-payment by customers is a significant focus of our business. We expect a significant amount of future revenue to come from international customers, many of whom will be startup telecom operators in developing countries. We do not generally expect to obtain collateral for sales, although we require letters of credit or credit insurance as appropriate for international customers. For information regarding the percentage of revenue attributable to certain key customers, see the risks discussed in the factor above titled “Because a significant amount of our revenue may come from a limited number of customers, the termination of any of these customer relationships may adversely affect our business.” Our historical accounts receivable balances have been concentrated in a small 21 Table of Contents number of significant customers. Unexpected adverse events impacting the financial condition of our customers, bank failures or other unfavorable regulatory, economic or political events in the countries in which we do business may impact collections and adversely impact our business, require increased bad debt expense or receivable write-offs and adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and operating results. Rapid changes in the microwave radio industry and the frequent introduction of lower cost components for our product offerings may result in excess inventory that we cannot sell or may be required to sell at distressed prices, and may result in longer credit terms to our customers. The rapid changes and evolving industry standards that characterize the market for our products require frequent modification of products for us to be successful. These rapid changes could result in the accumulation of component inventory parts that become obsolete as modified products are introduced and adopted by customers. We have experienced significant inventory write-offs in recent years, and because of the rapid changes that characterize the market, we also may be forced to write down excess inventory from time to time. Moreover, these same factors may force us to significantly reduce prices for older products or extend more and longer credit terms to customers, which could negatively impact our cash and possibly result in higher bad debt expense. More generally, we cannot give assurances that we will be successful in matching our inventory purchases with anticipated shipment volumes. As a result, we may fail to control the amount of inventory on hand and may be forced to write off additional amounts. Such additional inventory write-offs, if required, would adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and operating results. The unpredictability of our quarter-to-quarter results may harm the trading price of our Class A common stock. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside our control. These factors could harm our business and include, among others: • volume and timing of our product orders received and delivered during the quarter; • our ability and the ability of our key suppliers to respond to changes on demand as needed; • our suppliers’ inability to perform and deliver on time as a result of their financial condition, component shortages or other supply chain constraints; • our sales cycles can be lengthy; • continued market expansion through strategic alliances; • continued timely rollout of new product functionality and features; • increased competition resulting in downward pressures on the price of our products and services; • unexpected delays in the schedule for shipments of existing products and new generations of the existing platforms; • failure to realize expected cost improvement throughout our supply chain; • order cancellations or postponements in product deliveries resulting in delayed revenue recognition; • seasonality in the purchasing habits of our customers; • war and acts of terrorism; • natural disasters; • the ability of our customers to obtain financing to enable their purchase of our products; • fluctuations in international currency exchange rates; • regulatory developments including denial of export and import licenses; and • general economic conditions worldwide. 22 Table of Contents Our quarterly results are expected to be difficult to predict and delays in product delivery or closing a sale can cause revenue and net income or loss to fluctuate significantly from anticipated levels. In addition, we may increase spending in response to competition or in pursuit of new market opportunities. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to achieve profitability in the future or that if profitability is attained, that we will be able to sustain profitability, particularly on a quarter-to-quarter basis. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we may be deprived of legal recourse against those who misappropriate our intellectual property. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology in the U.S. and internationally. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents and contractual rights to protect our intellectual property. In addition, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of its proprietary information. We cannot give assurances that any steps taken by us will be adequate to deter misappropriation or impede independent third-party development of similar technologies. In the event that such intellectual property arrangements are insufficient, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We have significant operations in the U.S., United Kingdom, Singapore and New Zealand, and outsourcing arrangements in Asia. We cannot provide assurances that the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of particular nations will be substantially similar to the protection and remedies available under U.S. law. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us based on intellectual property rights and laws in other nations that are different from those established in the U.S. If sufficient radio frequency spectrum is not allocated for use by our products, and we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our products, our ability to market our products may be restricted. Radio communications are subject to regulation by U.S. and foreign laws and international treaties. Generally, our products need to conform to a variety of United States and international requirements established to avoid interference among users of transmission frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. Any delays in compliance with respect to our future products could delay the introduction of such products. In addition, we will be affected by the allocation and auction of the radio frequency spectrum by governmental authorities both in the U.S. and internationally. Such governmental authorities may not allocate sufficient radio frequency spectrum for use by our products or we may not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for our products from these authorities. Historically, in many developed countries, the unavailability of frequency spectrum has inhibited the growth of wireless telecommunications networks. In addition, to operate in a jurisdiction, we must obtain regulatory approval for our products. Each jurisdiction in which we market our products has its own regulations governing radio communications. Products that support emerging wireless telecommunications services can be marketed in a jurisdiction only if permitted by suitable frequency allocations, auctions and regulations. The process of establishing new regulations is complex and lengthy. If we are unable to obtain sufficient allocation of radio frequency spectrum by the appropriate governmental authority or obtain the proper regulatory approval for our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. Negative changes in the capital markets available for telecommunications and mobile cellular projects may result in reduced revenue and excess inventory that we cannot sell or may be required to sell at distressed prices, and may result in longer credit terms to our customers. Many of our current and potential customers require significant capital funding to finance their telecommunications and mobile cellular projects, which include the purchase of our products and services. Although in the last year we have seen some growth in capital spending in the wireless telecommunications market, changes in capital markets worldwide could negatively impact available funding for these projects and may continue to be unavailable to some customers. As a result, the purchase of our products and services may be slowed or halted. Reduction in demand for our products has resulted in excess inventories on hand in the past, and could result in additional excess inventories in the future. If funding is unavailable to our customers or their customers, we may be forced to write 23 Table of Contents down excess inventory. In addition, we may have to extend more and longer credit terms to our customers, which could negatively impact our cash and possibly result in higher bad debt expense. We cannot give assurances that we will be successful in matching our inventory purchases with anticipated shipment volumes. As a result, we may fail to control the amount of inventory on hand and may be forced to write off additional amounts. Such additional inventory write-offs, if required, would decrease our profits. In addition, in order to maintain competitiveness in an environment of restrictive third-party financing, we may have to offer customer financing that is recorded on our balance sheet. This may result in deferred revenue recognition, additional credit risk and substantial cash usage. Our stock price may be volatile, which may lead to losses by investors. Announcements of developments related to our business, announcements by competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and general conditions in the telecommunications industry in which we compete, or the economies of the countries in which we do business and other factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. These factors and fluctuations could lower the market price of our common stock. Our stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. We have risks related to the remediation of our material weaknesses in internal control. Public companies are required to include in their annual reports on Form 10-K a report of management on internal control over financial reporting that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. We have identified certain matters involving our internal control over financial reporting that we and our independent registered public accounting firm determined to be material weaknesses under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. These material weaknesses relate to controls over project cost variances and account reconciliations and existed at the end of our fiscal year ended June 27, 2008 as well as in our 2007, 2006 and 2005 fiscal years. We have described these matters in more detail in Item 9A herein. While we believe that the remediation efforts we have recently instituted are adequate to correct the problems we have identified, we cannot be certain that these efforts will eliminate the material weaknesses we identified or ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. There is also no assurance that we will not discover additional material weaknesses in our controls and procedures in the future. If we fail to satisfactorily strengthen and maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls, neither we nor our independent registered public accounting firm may be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. Perceptions of us could also be adversely affected among customers, lenders, securities analysts and others which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. The discovery of future weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control or identification of material misstatements in our prior financial statements may also prevent us from filing our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner. If we fail to file timely SEC reports, investors in our securities will not have the information required by SEC rules regarding our business and financial condition with which to make decisions regarding investment in our securities. Additionally, The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, the exchange on which our common stock is listed, could institute proceedings to delist our common stock. We also would not be eligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3 to make equity or debt offerings for a period of 12 months after the time we become current in our filings. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to raise capital, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations, and could also result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. 24 Table of Contents We may face risks related to the restatement of our financial statements. In connection with our identification of the material weaknesses in internal control described above, we have had to restate our interim consolidated financial statements for the first three fiscal quarters of fiscal 2008 (the quarters ended March 28, 2008, December 28, 2007 and September 28, 2007) and our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended June 29, 2007, June 30, 2006 and July 1, 2005 in order to correct errors contained in those financial statements. We also announced on July 30, 2008 that investors should no longer rely on our previously issued financial statements for those periods. We have described these matters in more in detail in Item 7 and in Item 8 under Note D “Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements” to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. The correction of errors in prior financial statements and the investigation and remediation of underlying material weaknesses often requires companies to incur substantial accounting, legal and other professional fees and expend significant management time and other resources. While we do not believe that the restatements described above or the related investigation and review have, or will have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition or future prospects, no assurance can be given that additional expense related to these or other restatements will not arise the future. Companies that restate prior financial statements may also face governmental actions, shareholder lawsuits and other legal proceedings related to the restatement. Our involvement in any such proceedings could require us to incur substantial legal fees and divert management attention away from the operation of our business. We may also be required to pay substantial monetary awards, as well as civil and criminal fines. We have not reserved any amount in respect of these matters in its consolidated financial statements. These expenditures and diversions of resources, as well as the adverse resolution of any specific lawsuits, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On September 15 and 18, 2008, complaints were filed against us on behalf of an alleged class of purchasers of our securities from January 29, 2007 to July 30, 2008 alleging that we violated federal securities laws in connection with our restatement of prior financial statements and seeking compensator damages and other relief, as more fully described in Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” While we believe that we have meritorious defenses to this lawsuit and intend to defend the litigation vigorously, given the preliminary nature of the alleged claims and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, we cannot at this time estimate the possible outcome of this or any other similar actions. Risks Related to the Relationship between Harris and Us We are and will continue to be controlled by Harris, whose interests may conflict with ours. Harris owns no shares of our Class A common stock but all of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, through which it holds an approximate 56% interest of our outstanding equity which gives it approximately 56% of the voting power represented by our outstanding common stock. In addition, Harris has the right to appoint separately, as a class, five of our nine directors as long as the shares of our common stock held by Harris entitle Harris to cast a majority of the votes at an election of our directors (other than those directors appointed by Harris separately as a class). Harris also votes, along with our Class A stockholders, in the election of the four remaining directors, and as the holder of approximately 56% of our outstanding common shares holds a majority of the shares eligible to vote. In the election of the four remaining directors, Harris has agreed to vote for the persons nominated for such positions by our Nominating Committee, which is composed entirely of directors not appointed by Harris. For two years from January 26, 2007, Harris has agreed that it will not acquire or dispose of beneficial ownership in shares of our common stock, except under limited circumstances, and has no obligation to dispose of its interest in us following such two-year period. Accordingly, Harris is likely to continue to exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs, including the composition of our board of directors and any action requiring the approval of our shareholders. The concentration of ownership also may make some transactions, including mergers or other changes in control, more difficult or impossible without the support of Harris. Harris’ interests may conflict with your interests as a shareholder. As a result, your ability to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval will be limited. 25 Table of Contents As the only holder of our outstanding Class B common stock, Harris has the unilateral right to elect, remove and replace, at any time, a majority of our board of directors, so long as the members elected, removed or replaced by Harris satisfy the requirements agreed to by the Company and Harris as set forth in an investor agreement entered into at the time of the Stratex acquisition. More specifically, Harris has agreed that, so long as it holds a majority of our voting common stock, it will have the right to appoint five of our nine directors and, until January 26, 2009, at least one of the Harris directors will meet the NASDAQ independence standards for audit committee members and at least one other Harris director will not be an employee of Harris or any of its subsidiaries (other than Harris Stratex or our subsidiaries). After January 26, 2009, Harris will be able to elect or replace all the Harris directors without regard to their relationship with Harris. Harris has rights reflecting its controlling interest in our company. As a result, the ability of non-Harris stockholders to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval will be limited. Harris’ right to vote a majority of our outstanding voting stock enables it to control decisions without the consent of our other stockholders, including among others, with respect to: • our business direction and policies; • mergers or other business combinations, except until January 26, 2009; • the acquisition or disposition of assets; • the payment or nonpayment of dividends; • determinations with respect to tax returns; • our capital structure; and • amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. In addition to the effects described above, Harris’ control position could make it more difficult for us to raise capital or make acquisitions by issuing our capital stock. This concentrated ownership also might delay or prevent a change in control and may impede or prevent transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. We may have potential conflicts of interest with Harris relating to our ongoing relationship, and because of Harris’ controlling ownership in us, the resolution of these conflicts may not be favorable to us. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and Harris in a number of areas relating to our ongoing relationship, including: • indemnification and other matters arising under the Formation, Contribution and Merger Agreement or other agreements; • intellectual property matters; • employee recruiting and retention; • competition for customers in the areas where Harris is permitted to do business under the non-competition agreement described below; • sales or distributions by Harris of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us, which could be to one of our competitors; • business combinations involving us; and • business opportunities that may be attractive to both Harris and us. In addition, we may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts with Harris, and, even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. 26 Table of Contents We have an investor agreement and non-competition agreement with Harris. The investor agreement provides that Harris and its affiliates are only permitted to enter into a transaction with us if the transaction is approved by a majority of our non-Harris-appointed directors or the terms are, in all material respects, no less favorable to us than those that could have been obtained from an informed, unrelated third party (taking into consideration all the then prevailing facts and circumstances). However, if a transaction has a fair market value of more than $5 million, it must be approved in advance by a majority of our non-Harris-appointed directors, regardless of the nature of the terms. There are limited exceptions to these arrangements. Pursuant to the terms of the non-competition agreement, Harris has agreed in general terms that, for five years following January 26, 2007, it cannot and will not permit any of its subsidiaries (other than us and our subsidiaries) to, engage in the development, manufacture, distribution and sale of microwave radio systems that are competitive with our current products or substantially similar to those products in form, fit and function when used in terrestrial microwave point-to-point communications networks that provide access and trunking of voice and data for telecommunications networks. Notwithstanding this restriction, Harris is permitted to purchase and resell products produced by and branded by persons unaffiliated with Harris and to develop, manufacture, distribute and sell microwave radios and related components for use by government entities. We are and will continue to be a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules and, as a result, rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that are designed to provide protection to shareholders of companies that trade on NASDAQ. Harris owns more than 50% of the total voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Therefore, we are a “controlled company” under the NASDAQ rules. As a controlled company, we are entitled to utilize exemptions under the NASDAQ standards that free us from the obligation to comply with some governance requirements under the NASDAQ rules, including the following: • a majority of our board of directors consists of independent directors; • our director nominees must either be selected, or recommended for selection by the board of directors, either by: • a majority of the independent directors; or • a nominations committee comprised solely of independent directors; and • the compensation of our officers must be determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, either by: • a majority of the independent directors; or • a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. Although a majority of our board of directors currently consists of independent directors and our compensation committee, which recommends the compensation of our officers to the board of directors, is comprised solely of independent directors, we may use these exemptions in the future and, as a result, may not provide the same protection afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. So long as Harris holds a majority of our securities outstanding and is entitled to vote generally in the election of our directors (other than those directors elected separately as a class by Harris), it will have the right to preserve its control position by participating in our equity offerings. At any time that Harris holds a majority of our securities outstanding and entitled to vote generally in the election of our directors (other than those directors elected separately as a class by Harris), subject to limited exceptions, Harris has the right to participate in any offering of our capital stock including grants of equity to employees on the same terms and conditions as the offering and purchase up to that number of shares of our capital stock necessary to preserve its then voting percentage. As a result, Harris will be able to maintain its control position as long as it is able to and elects to participate in any offering of our capital stock. 27 Table of Contents Neither Harris nor any of its affiliates will have any fiduciary obligation or other obligation to offer corporate opportunities to us, and our certificate of incorporation and investor agreement with Harris expressly permit certain of our directors and our employees to offer certain corporate opportunities to Harris before us. Our certificate of incorporation and the investor agreement with Harris provide that: • except (1) as otherwise provided in the non-competition agreement with Harris or (2) opportunities offered to an individual who is a director or officer of both Harris Stratex and Harris in writing solely in that person’s capacity as our officer or director, Harris is free to compete with us in any activity or line of business; invest or develop a business relationship with any person engaged in the same or similar activities or businesses as us; do business with any of our customers; or employ any of our former employees; • neither Harris nor its affiliates have any duty to communicate its or their knowledge of or offer any potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter to us unless the opportunity was offered to the individual who is a director or officer of both Harris Stratex and Harris in writing solely in that person’s capacity as our officer or director; and • if any director or officer of Harris, who is also an officer or director of Harris Stratex, becomes aware of a potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter (other than one expressly offered to that director or officer in writing solely in his or her capacity as our director or officer), that director or officer will have no duty to communicate or offer that opportunity to us and will be permitted to communicate or offer that opportunity to Harris (or its affiliates), and that director or officer will not be deemed to have acted in bad faith or in a manner inconsistent with our best interests or in a manner inconsistent with his or her fiduciary or other duties to us. Two members of our board of directors are also directors and/or officers of Harris. As a result, Harris may gain the benefit of corporate opportunities that are presented to these directors. In certain circumstances, Harris is permitted to engage in the same types of businesses that we conduct. If Harris elects to pursue opportunities in these areas, our ability to successfully operate and expand our business may be limited. We have a non-competition agreement with Harris restricting its and its subsidiaries’ ability to compete with us for five years from January 26, 2007 in specified lines of business related to our current business operations. However, the non-competition agreement will not restrict Harris from competing in a limited number of specific areas in which we operate, such as the development, manufacture and sale of wireless systems for use by government entities and the purchase and resale of non-Harris-branded wireless systems. Following the five-year term, there will be no restriction on Harris’ ability to compete with us. If Harris elects to pursue opportunities in these areas or re-enters the business from which it is prohibited following the five-year term of the non-competition agreement, our ability to successfully operate and expand our business may be limited. Sales by Harris of its interest in us could result in offers for shares of Class A common stock, the terms of which have been negotiated solely by Harris, and could adversely affect the price and liquidity of our Class A common stock. Harris has agreed not to buy or sell our common stock until January 26, 2009, except with the consent of our non-Harris directors or to enable Harris to preserve its percentage interest in our outstanding common stock. From January 26, 2009 to January 26, 2011, Harris will be free to transfer majority control of us to a buyer, at a price and on terms acceptable to Harris in its sole discretion so long as the buyer offers to acquire all our outstanding voting shares not owned by Harris on the same terms offered to Harris or the non-Harris directors approve the transfer by Harris in advance. However, our non-Harris stockholders will have no role in determining the identity of the buyer and the amount and type of consideration to be received or any other terms of the transaction. If equity securities of the buyer are offered or if our other shareholders elect not to accept the buyer’s offer, their continuing investment would be in a company that may be majority-controlled by a company or an investor selected only by Harris. After 28 Table of Contents January 26, 2011, Harris will no longer be subject to any contractual limitations on the sale of its interest in Harris Stratex. In addition, we have agreed to register for resale to the public shares of common stock which are held by Harris. Sales of our registered shares by Harris, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the trading price of our Class A common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 