Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in certain of our other filings with the SEC, the following risks and uncertainties, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by us or by any forward-looking statement contained herein. Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings.We have many business risks including those related to our financial performance, investments in our common stock, operating our business and legal matters. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Our success will depend on new products introduced to the marketplace in a timely manner, successfully completing product transitioning and achieving customer acceptance.The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. Our future success will depend, in part, on continuous, timely development and introduction of new products and enhancements that address evolving market requirements and are attractive to customers. If we fail to develop or introduce on a timely basis new products or product enhancements or features that achieve market acceptance, our business may suffer. Another factor impacting our future success is the growth in the customer demand of our new products. Rapidly changing technology, frequent new products introductions and enhancements, short product life cycles and changes in customer requirements characterize the markets for our products. We believe that successful new product introductions provide a significant competitive advantage because of the significant resources committed by customers in adopting new products and their reluctance to change products after these resources have been expended. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, significant resources on internal research and development to support our effort to develop and introduce new products and enhancements.As we transition to new product platforms, we may face significant risk that the development of our new products may not be accepted by our current customers. To the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products that are adopted by customers, we could fail to obtain an adequate return on these investments and could lose market share to our competitors, which could be difficult or impossible to regain. Similarly we may face decreased revenue, gross margins and profitability due to a rapid decline in sales of current products as customers hold spending to focus purchases on new product platforms. We could incur significant costs in completing the transition, including costs of inventory writedowns of the current product as customers transition to new product platforms. In addition, products or technologies developed by others may render our products noncompetitive or obsolete and result in significant reduction in orders from our customers and the loss of existing and prospective customers.We have not been profitable and must increase our revenues and reduce costs if we hope to achieve sustainable profitability.As measured under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”), we have incurred a net loss in each of the last 6 fiscal years. We incurred net losses of $24.1 million in fiscal 2012, $90.5 million in fiscal 2011 and $130.2 million in fiscal 2010 and have been unprofitable since we became a public company in January 2007. We also have consistently reported losses from operations, although we have generated cash from operations in fiscal 2012, 2010 and 2009.Throughout fiscal 2012 we experienced strong price competition for new business in all regions while major customer consolidations also put pressure on revenue and gross margin. We saw pricing pressures in all markets, particularly in international markets where we compete for the business of large, carrier customers. In all markets, telecommunication operating companies consolidated through mergers or acquisitions, leading to fewer, but larger customers. In order to counter pricing pressures, we invested heavily in product improvements to reduce unit costs and enhance product features, exited manufacturing facilities and shifted production to contract manufacturers, and worked with our vendors to attain more favorable pricing. If we are unable to reduce product unit costs associated with enhanced product features, including payments to contract manufacturers and other suppliers, we may not achieve profitability. We cannot be certain that these actions or others that we may take in the future will result in operating profitability or net income as determined under U.S. GAAP.We face strong competition for maintaining and improving our position in the market, which can adversely affect our revenue growth and operating results.13Table of ContentsThe wireless access, interconnection and backhaul business is a specialized segment of the wireless telecommunications industry and is extremely competitive. We expect competition in this segment to increase. Some of our competitors have more extensive engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities and significantly greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. In addition, some of our competitors have greater name recognition, broader product lines, a larger installed base of products and longer-standing customer relationships. Our competitors include established companies, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Eltek ASA, Ericsson, NEC, Huawei and ZTE, as well as a number of other public and private companies such as Ceragon, DragonWave, SAIE and Exalt. Some of our competitors are OEMs or systems integrators through whom we market and sell our products, which means our business success may depend on these competitors to some extent. One or more of our largest customers could internally develop the capability to manufacture products similar to those manufactured or outsourced by us and, as a result, the demand for our products and services may decrease.In addition, we compete for acquisition and expansion opportunities with many entities that have substantially greater resources than we have. Our competitors may enter into business combinations in order to accelerate product development or to compete more aggressively and we may lack the resources to meet such enhanced competitions.Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors, including price, quality, availability, customer service and support, breadth of product line, product performance and features, rapid time-to-market delivery capabilities, reliability, timing of new product introductions by us, our customers and competitors, the ability of our customers to obtain financing and the stability of regional sociopolitical and geopolitical circumstances, and the ability of large competitors to obtain business by providing more seller financing especially for large transactions. We can give no assurances that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, or marketing, sales, distribution, customer service and support capabilities to compete successfully, or that regional sociopolitical and geographic circumstances will be favorable for our successful operation.Our average sales prices may decline in the future.Currently, we are experiencing, and are likely to continue to experience, declining sales prices. This price pressure is likely to result in downward pricing pressure on our products and services. As a result, we are likely to experience declining average sales prices for our products. Our future profitability will depend upon our ability to improve manufacturing efficiencies, reduce costs of materials used in our products, and to continue to introduce new lower-cost products and product enhancements. If we are unable to respond to increased price competition, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. Because customers frequently negotiate supply arrangements far in advance of delivery dates, we may be required to commit to price reductions for our products before we are aware of how, or if, cost reductions can be obtained. As a result, current or future price reduction commitments and any inability on our part to respond to increased price competition, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.The effects of the global financial and economic downturn may have significant effects on our customers and suppliers that would result in material adverse effects on our business, operating results, financial condition and stock price.The effects of the global financial and economic downturn include, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, and concerns that the worldwide economy has entered into or may enter into a further prolonged recessionary period.This financial downturn has adversely affected and may continue to materially adversely affect our customers’ access to capital and/or willingness to spend capital on our products, and/or their levels of cash liquidity and/or their ability and/or willingness to pay for products that they will order or have already ordered from us, or result in their ceasing operations. Further, we have experienced an increasing number of our customers, principally in emerging markets, requesting longer payment terms, lease or vendor financing arrangements, longer terms for the letters of credit securing purchases of our products and services, which could potentially negatively impact our orders, revenue conversion cycle, and cash flows.In seeking to reduce their expenses, we have also seen significant pressure from our customers to lower prices for our products as they try to improve their operating performance and procure additional capital equipment within their reduced budget levels. To the extent that we lower prices on our products and services, our orders, revenues, and gross margins may be negatively impacted. Additionally, certain emerging markets are particularly sensitive to pricing as a key differentiator. Where price is a primary decision driver, we may not be able to affectively compete or we may chose not to compete due to unacceptable margins.In addition, the financial crisis may materially adversely affect our suppliers’ access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventories, production levels, and/or product quality, could cause them to raise prices or lower production 14Table of Contentslevels, or result in their ceasing operations. Further, with respect to the credit facility discussed under “Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Strategies” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on form 10-K, if the global financial crisis adversely affects Silicon Valley Bank, our ability to access the funds available under the credit facility could be materially adversely affected.The potential effects of these economic factors are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price.Part of our inventory may be written off, which would increase our cost of revenues. In addition, we may be exposed to inventory-related losses on inventories purchased by our contract manufacturers.During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recorded charges to reduce the carrying value of our inventory to the lower of cost or market totaling $3.4 million , $14.5 million and $29.6 million, respectively. Such charges equaled 0.8%, 3.2%, and 6.4% of our revenue in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These charges were primarily due to excess and obsolete inventory resulting from product transitioning and discontinuance.Inventory of raw materials, work in-process or finished products may accumulate in the future, and we may encounter losses due to a variety of factors, including:•rapid technological change in the wireless telecommunications industry resulting in frequent product changes;•the need of our contract manufacturers to order raw materials that have long lead times and our inability to estimate exact amounts and types of items thus needed, especially with regard to the frequencies in which the final products ordered will operate; and•cost reduction initiatives resulting in component changes within the products.Further, our inventory of finished products may accumulate as the result of cancellation of customer orders or our customers’ refusal to confirm the acceptance of our products. Our contract manufacturers are required to purchase inventory based on manufacturing projections we provide to them. If actual orders from our customers are lower than these manufacturing projections, our contract manufacturers will have excess inventory of raw materials or finished products which we would be required to purchase. In addition, we require our contract manufacturers from time to time to purchase more inventory than is immediately required, and to partially assemble components, in order to shorten our delivery time in case of an increase in demand for our products. In the absence of such increase in demand, we may need to compensate our contract manufacturers. If we are required to purchase excess inventory from our contract manufacturers or otherwise compensate our contract manufacturers for purchasing excess inventory, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We also may purchase components or raw materials from time to time for use by our contract manufacturers in the manufacturing of our products. These purchases are based on our own manufacturing projections. If our actual orders are lower than these manufacturing projections, we may accumulate excess inventory which we may be required to write-off. If we are forced to write-off this inventory other than in the normal course of business, our business, financial condition, results of operations could be materially adversely affected.If we fail to accurately forecast our manufacturing requirements or customer demand, we could incur additional costs which would adversely affect our business and results of operations.If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements or forecast customer demand, we may incur additional costs of manufacturing and our gross margins and financial results could be adversely affected. If we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may experience an oversupply of components and assess us charges for excess or obsolete components that could adversely affect our gross margins. If we underestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate inventory or components, which could interrupt manufacturing and result in higher manufacturing costs, shipment delays, damage to customer relationships and/or our payment of penalties to our customers. Our contract manufacturers may also have other customers and may not have sufficient capacity to meet all of their customer’s needs, including ours, during periods of excess demand.Our sales cycle may be lengthy, and the time for installation and implementation of our products within our customers’ networks may extend over more than one period, which can make our operating results difficult to predict.We anticipate difficulty in accurately predicting the timing and amounts of revenue generated from sales of our products. The establishment of a business relationship with a potential customer is a lengthy process, generally taking several months and sometimes longer. Following the establishment of the relationship, the negotiation of purchase terms can be time-consuming, and a potential customer may require an extended evaluation and testing period.15Table of ContentsWe expect that our product sales cycle, which results in our products being designed into our customers’ networks, could take 12 to 24 months. A number of factors can contribute to the length of the sales cycle, including technical evaluations of our products and the design process required to integrate our products into our customers’ networks. In anticipation of product orders, we may incur substantial costs before the sales cycle is complete and before we receive any customer payments. As a result, in the event that a sale is not completed or is canceled or delayed, we may have incurred substantial expenses, making it more difficult for us to become profitable or otherwise negatively impacting our financial results. Furthermore, because of our lengthy sales cycle, our receipt of revenue from our selling efforts may be substantially delayed, our ability to forecast our future revenue may be more limited and our revenue may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter.Once a purchase agreement has been executed, the timing and amount of revenue, if applicable, may remain difficult to predict. The completion of the installation and testing of the customer’s networks and the completion of all other suppliers network elements are subject to the customer’s timing and efforts, and other factors outside our control which may prevent us from making predictions of revenue with any certainty and could cause us to experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results.If we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, we could incur additional costs or be unable to timely fulfill our customer commitments, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations and, in the event of an inability to fulfill commitments, would harm our customer relationships.We outsource all of our manufacturing and a substantial portion of our repair service operations to independent contract manufacturers and other third parties. Our contract manufacturers typically manufacture our products based on rolling forecasts of our product needs that we provide to them on a regular basis. The contract manufacturers are responsible for procuring components necessary to build our products based on our rolling forecasts, building and assembling the products, testing the products in accordance with our specifications and then shipping the products to us. We configure the products to our customer requirements, conduct final testing and then ship the products to our customers. Although we currently partner with multiple major contract manufacturers, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter problems as we become increasingly dependent on contract manufacturers to provide these manufacturing services or that we will be able to replace a contract manufacturer that is not able to meet our demand.In addition, if we fail to effectively manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers or other service providers, or if one or more of them should not fully comply with their contractual obligations or should experience delays, disruptions, component procurement problems or quality control problems, then our ability to ship products to our customers or otherwise fulfill our contractual obligations to our customers could be delayed or impaired which would adversely affect our business, financial results and customer relationships.We depend on sole or limited sources for some key components and failure to receive timely delivery of any of these components could result in deferred or lost sales.In some instances, we are dependent upon one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. Examples of sole or limited sourcing categories include metal fabrications and castings, for which we own the tooling and therefore limit our supplier relationships, and MMICs (a type of integrated circuit used in manufacturing microwave radios), which we procure at a volume discount from a single source. Our supply chain plan includes mitigation plans for alternative manufacturing sources and identified alternate suppliers. However, if these alternatives cannot address our requirements when our existing sources of these components fail to deliver them on time, we could suffer delayed shipments, canceled orders, and lost or deferred revenues, as well as material damage to our customer relationships. Should this occur, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected to a material degree.Credit and commercial risks and exposures could increase if the financial condition of our customers declines.A substantial portion of our sales are to customers in the telecommunications industry. These customers may require their suppliers to provide extended payment terms, direct loans or other forms of financial support as a condition to obtaining commercial contracts. We expect that we may provide or commit to financing where appropriate for our business. Our ability to arrange or provide financing for our customers will depend on a number of factors, including our credit rating, our level of available credit and our ability to sell off commitments on acceptable terms. In addition, if local currencies cannot be hedged, we have an inherent exposure in our ability to convert monies at favorable rates or to U.S. dollars. More generally, we expect to routinely enter into long-term contracts involving significant amounts to be paid by our customers over time. Pursuant to these contracts, we may deliver products and services representing an important portion of the contract price before receiving any significant payment from the customer. As a result of the financing that may be provided to customers and our commercial risk exposure under long-term contracts, our business could be adversely affected if the financial condition of our customers erodes. Over the past few years, certain of our customers have filed with the courts seeking protection under the bankruptcy or 16Table of Contentsreorganization laws of the applicable jurisdiction, or have experienced financial difficulties. As a result of the more challenging economic environment, we have seen an increase in the number of our customers experiencing such difficulties since 2008, and we expect that trend to continue if the global economy deteriorates further in 2013. That trend may be exacerbated in many emerging markets, where our customers are being affected not only by recession, but by deteriorating local currencies and a lack of credit. Upon the financial failure of a customer, we may experience losses on credit extended and loans made to such customer, losses relating to our commercial risk exposure and the loss of the customer’s ongoing business. If customers fail to meet their obligations to us, we may experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of reserves, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial position.Our customers may not pay for products and services in a timely manner, or at all, which would decrease our cash flows and adversely affect our working capital.Our business requires extensive credit risk management that may not be adequate to protect against customer nonpayment. A risk of non-payment by customers is a significant focus of our business. We expect a significant amount of future revenue to come from international customers, many of whom will be startup telecom operators in developing countries. We do not generally expect to obtain collateral for sales, although we require letters of credit or credit insurance as appropriate for international customers. For information regarding the percentage of revenue attributable to certain key customers, see the risks discussed in the factor below titled “Because a significant amount of our revenue may come from a limited number of customers, the termination of any of these customer relationships may adversely affect our business.” Our historical accounts receivable balances have been concentrated in a small number of significant customers. Unexpected adverse events impacting the financial condition of our customers, bank failures or other unfavorable regulatory, economic or political events in the countries in which we do business may impact collections and adversely impact our business, require increased bad debt expense or receivable write-offs and adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and operating results, which could also result in a breach of our bank covenants.Our effective tax rate could be highly volatile and could adversely affect our operating results.Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:•the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;•adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;•increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions;•changes in available tax credits;•changes in share-based compensation expense;•changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;•changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws;•the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities;•the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; and•taxes that may be incurred upon a repatriation of cash from foreign operations.Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could impact our results of operations for future periods adversely.Because a significant amount of our revenue may come from a limited number of customers, the termination of any of these customer relationships may adversely affect our business.Sales of our products and services historically have been concentrated in a small number of customers. Principal customers for our products and services include domestic and international wireless/mobile service providers, OEMs, as well as private network users such as public safety agencies; government institutions; and utility, pipeline, railroad and other industrial enterprises that operate broadband wireless networks. We had revenue from a single external customer that exceeded 10% of our total revenue during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010. Although we have a large customer base, during any given quarter a small number of customers may account for a significant portion of our revenue.It is possible that a significant portion of our future product sales also could be concentrated in a limited number of customers. In addition, product sales to major customers have varied widely from period to period. The loss of any existing customer, a significant reduction in the level of sales to any existing customer, or our inability to gain additional customers 17Table of Contentscould result in declines in our revenue or an inability to grow revenue. In addition, consolidation of our potential customer base could result in purchasing decision delays as consolidating customers integrate their operations and could generally reduce our opportunities to win new customers to the extent that the number of potential customers decreases. Furthermore, as our customers become larger, they may have more leverage to negotiate better pricing which could adversely affect our revenues and gross margins.Our quarterly results may be volatile, which can adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside our control. These factors could harm our business and include, among others:•seasonality in the purchasing habits of our customers;•the volume and timing of product orders and the timing of completion of our product deliveries and installations;•our ability and the ability of our key suppliers to respond to changes on demand as needed;•margin variability;•our suppliers’ inability to perform and deliver on time as a result of their financial condition, component shortages or other supply chain constraints;•retention of key personnel;•our sales cycles can be lengthy;•litigation costs and expenses;•continued timely rollout of new product functionality and features;•increased competition resulting in downward pressures on the price of our products and services;•unexpected delays in the schedule for shipments of existing products and new generations of the existing platforms;•failure to realize expected cost improvement throughout our supply chain;•order cancellations or postponements in product deliveries resulting in delayed revenue recognition;•seasonality in the purchasing habits of our customers;•restructuring and organization of our operations;•war and acts of terrorism;•natural disasters;•the ability of our customers to obtain financing to enable their purchase of our products;•fluctuations in international currency exchange rates;•regulatory developments including denial of export and import licenses; and•general economic conditions worldwide that affect demand and financing for microwave telecommunications networks;•the timing and size of future restructuring plans and write-offs.Our quarterly results are expected to be difficult to predict and delays in product delivery or closing a sale can cause revenue, margins and net income or loss to fluctuate significantly from anticipated levels. A substantial portion of our contracts are completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are large orders. Because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability and can increase our inventory. The number of large new transactions also increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our quarterly revenues and profitability to fall significantly short of our predictions. In addition, we may increase spending in response to competition or in pursuit of new market opportunities. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to achieve profitability in the future or that if profitability is attained, that we will be able to sustain profitability, particularly on a quarter-to-quarter basis.Due to the significant volume of international sales we expect, we may be susceptible to a number of political, economic and geographic risks that could harm our business.We are highly dependent on sales to customers outside the U.S. In fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, our sales to international customers accounted for 64%, 67% and 67%, respectively, of total revenue. Also, significant portions of our international sales are in less developed countries. Our international sales are likely to continue to account for a large percentage of our products and services revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, the occurrence of any international, political, economic or geographic event that adversely affects our business could result in a significant decline in revenue. In addition, compliance 18Table of Contentswith complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include internal control and disclosure rules, data privacy and filtering requirements, anti-corruption laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies.Some of the risks and challenges of doing business internationally include:•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;•fluctuations in international currency exchange rates including its impact on unhedgeable currencies and our forecast variations for hedgeable currencies;•imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions;•management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries;•the burden of complying with a variety of laws and regulations in various countries;•application of the income tax laws and regulations of multiple jurisdictions, including relatively low-rate and relatively high-rate jurisdictions, to our sales and other transactions, which results in additional complexity and uncertainty;•general economic and geopolitical conditions, including inflation and trade relationships;•war and acts of terrorism;•kidnapping and high crime rate;•natural disasters;•currency exchange controls; and•changes in export regulations.While these factors and the impacts of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future.We may undertake further restructuring activities which may adversely impact our operations, and we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of these activities or any future restructurings.We continue to evaluate our business to determine the potential need to realign our resources as we continue to transform our business in order to achieve desired cost savings in an increasingly competitive market. In prior years, we have undertaken a series of restructuring of our operations involving, among other things and depending on the year, reductions of our workforce, the relocation of our corporate headquarters and the reduction and outsourcing of manufacturing activities. We incurred restructuring charges of $2.3 million, $15.4 million and $7.1 million, respectively, in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010.We have based our restructuring efforts on assumptions and plans regarding the appropriate cost structure of our businesses based on our product mix and projected sales among other factors. These assumptions may not be correct and we may not be able to operate in accordance with our plans. Should this occur we may determine that we must incur additional restructuring charges in the future. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will realize all of the anticipated benefits of the restructuring or that we will not further reduce or otherwise adjust our workforce or exit, or disposal of, certain businesses and protect lines. Any decision to further limit investment, exit, or dispose of businesses may result in the recording of additional restructuring charges. As a result, the costs actually incurred in connection with the restructuring efforts may be higher than originally planned and may not lead to the anticipated cost savings and/or improved results. For example, if we consolidate additional facilities in the future, we may incur additional restructuring and related expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.In addition, employees, whether or not directly affected by restructuring, may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors. We cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will not be compromised by any such employees who terminate their employment with us. Further, we believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining such personnel as a result of a perceived risk of future workforce reductions, and we may terminate the employment of employees as part of a restructuring and later determine that such employees were important to the success of 19Table of Contentsthe ongoing business.Consolidation within the telecommunications industry could result in a decrease in our revenue.The telecommunications industry has experienced significant consolidation among its participants, and we expect this trend to continue. Some operators in this industry have experienced financial difficulty and have filed, or may file, for bankruptcy protection. Other operators may merge and one or more of our competitors may supply products to the customers of the combined company following those mergers. This consolidation could result in purchasing decision delays and decreased opportunities for us to supply products to companies following any consolidation. This consolidation may also result in lost opportunities for cost reduction and economies of scale. In addition, see the risks discussed in the factor above titled “Because a significant amount of our revenue may come from a limited number of customers, the termination of any of these customer relationships may adversely affect our business.”If we fail to develop and maintain distribution and licensing relationships, our revenue may decrease.Although a majority of our sales are made through our direct sales force, we also will market our products through indirect sales channels such as independent agents, distributors, OEMs and systems integrators. These relationships enhance our ability to pursue major contract awards and, in some cases, are intended to provide our customers with easier access to financing and a greater variety of equipment and service capabilities, which an integrated system provider should be able to offer. We may not be able to maintain and develop additional relationships,however, if additional relationships are developed, they may not be successful. Furthermore, as we consider increasing licensing revenue based on upgraded technology, we may not be successful in transitioning customers to the planned software upgrades. Our inability to establish or maintain these distribution and licensing relationships could restrict our ability to market our products and thereby result in significant reductions in revenue. If these revenue reductions occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed.If sufficient radio frequency spectrum is not allocated for use by our products, and we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our products, our ability to market our products may be restricted.Radio communications are subject to regulation by U.S. and foreign laws and international treaties. Generally, our products need to conform to a variety of United States and international requirements established to avoid interference among users of transmission frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. Any delays in compliance with respect to our future products could delay the introduction of such products.In addition, we will be affected by the allocation and auction of the radio frequency spectrum by governmental authorities both in the U.S. and internationally. Such governmental authorities may not allocate sufficient radio frequency spectrum for use by our products or we may not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for our products from these authorities. Historically, in many developed countries, the unavailability of frequency spectrum has inhibited the growth of wireless telecommunications networks. In addition, to operate in a jurisdiction, we must obtain regulatory approval for our products. Each jurisdiction in which we market our products has its own regulations governing radio communications. Products that support emerging wireless telecommunications services can be marketed in a jurisdiction only if permitted by suitable frequency allocations, auctions and regulations. The process of establishing new regulations is complex and lengthy. If we are unable to obtain sufficient allocation of radio frequency spectrum by the appropriate governmental authority or obtain the proper regulatory approval for our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed.Our business is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance, public disclosure, and anti-bribery measures that have resulted in increased costs and may continue to result in additional costs in the future and/or potential liabilities.We are subject to rules and regulations of federal and state regulatory authorities, The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC and financial market entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded, and foreign and domestic legislative bodies. During the past few years, these entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, NASDAQ, and the government of the United Kingdom, have issued requirements, laws and regulations and continue to develop additional requirements, laws and regulations, such as those in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”), and recent laws and regulations regarding bribery and unfair competition. Our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of substantial management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.Moreover, because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs potentially necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and 20Table of Contentsgovernance practices. Finally, if we are unable to ensure compliance with such requirements, laws, or regulations, we may be subject to costly prosecution and liability, and resulting reputational harm, from such noncompliance.Our products are used in critical communications networks which may subject us to significant liability claims.Because our products are used in critical communications networks, we may be subject to significant liability claims if our products do not work properly. The provisions in our agreements with customers that are intended to limit our exposure to liability claims may not preclude all potential claims. In addition, any insurance policies we have may not adequately limit our exposure with respect to such claims. We warrant to our current customers that our products will operate in accordance with our product specifications. If our products fail to conform to these specifications, our customers could require us to remedy the failure or could assert claims for damages. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any such claims, whether or not successful, would be costly and time-consuming to defend, and could divert management’s attention and seriously damage our reputation and our business.If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we may be deprived of legal recourse against those who misappropriate our intellectual property.Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology in the U.S. and internationally. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents and contractual rights to protect our intellectual property. In addition, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot give assurances that any steps taken by us will be adequate to deter misappropriation or impede independent third-party development of similar technologies. In the event that such intellectual property arrangements are insufficient, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We have significant operations in the U.S., United Kingdom, Singapore and New Zealand, and outsourcing arrangements in Asia and the U.S. We cannot provide assurances that the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of particular nations will be substantially similar to the protection and remedies available under U.S. law. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us based on intellectual property rights and laws in other nations that are different from those established in the U.S.We may be subject to litigation regarding intellectual property associated with our wireless business; this litigation could be costly to defend and resolve, and could prevent us from using or selling the challenged technology.The wireless telecommunications industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Such litigation or claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the use and transfer of allegedly infringing technology or the sale of allegedly infringing products and expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses for the infringing technology. We can give no assurances that we would be successful in developing such non-infringing technology or that any license for the infringing technology would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. This could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition, competitive position and prospects.Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult.Because we are a Delaware corporation, the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, which prohibits us from engaging in certain business combinations, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws also contain certain provisions that may make a third-party acquisition of us difficult, including the ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock and the requirement that nominations for directors and other proposals by stockholders must be made in advance of the meeting at which directors are elected or the proposals are voted upon.We may face risks related to pending litigation over the restatement of our financial statements.In connection with our identification of the material weaknesses in internal control described in our fiscal 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 25, 2008, we have had to restate our 21Table of Contentsinterim consolidated financial statements for the first three fiscal quarters of fiscal 2008 (the quarters ended March 28, 2008, December 28, 2007 and September 28, 2007) and our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended June 29, 2007, June 30, 2006 and July 1, 2005 in order to correct errors contained in those financial statements. We also announced on July 30, 2008 that investors should no longer rely on our previously issued financial statements for those periods.We and certain of our former executive officers and directors were named in a federal securities class action complaint filed on September 15, 2008 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware by plaintiff Norfolk County Retirement System on behalf of an alleged class of purchasers of our securities from January 29, 2007 to July 30, 2008, including stockholders of Stratex Networks, Inc. who exchanged shares of Stratex Networks, Inc. for our shares as part of the merger between Stratex Networks and the Microwave Communications Division of Harris Corporation (“MCD”). That action related to the restatement of our prior financial statements as discussed in our fiscal 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 25, 2008. The actions were consolidated on June 5, 2009 and a consolidated class action complaint was filed on July 29, 2009 (“Dutton”). On May 31, 2011, the Company and the other named defendants entered into a stipulation of settlement (“Stipulation”) with respect to the Dutton action, pursuant to which the Company caused $8.9 million to be paid into a settlement fund. The entire settlement amount was covered by insurance and was assumed by the insurance company. The hearing for final approval of the settlement took place on September 16, 2011 and the Court entered a judgment and Order of Dismissal with Prejudice on October 11, 2011. Certain of our former executive officers and directors were named in a complaint filed on July 18, 2011 in the United States District Cour for the District of Delaware by plaintiff Howard Taylor. Plaintiff purportedly brought this action derivatively on behalf of Aviat Networks, Inc. which is named as a nominal defendant. Plaintiff brings a claim for breach of fiduciary duty against the officer and director defendants based on the allegations of securities law violation alleged in the class action described above and also alleges that the defendants caused us to acquire MCD at an inflated price. Plaintiff sees to recover unspecified damages and other relief on behalf of Aviat Networks, as well as payment for costs and attorneys' fees. We filed a motion to dismiss on October 3, 2011 and are waiting for the court decision following the hearing on our motion to dismiss which was held on June 4, 2012. We intend to defend our interests in the litigation vigorously. Currently, we are unable to determine whether a loss is probable or to reasonably estimate the loss amount related to this matter. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.