Item 1A. Risk Factors Statements in this annual report on Form 10-K that are not strictly historical in nature and are forward-looking statements. These statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about: the timing of the commencement, enrollment, and completion of our clinical trials for our product candidates; the progress or success of our product development programs; the status of regulatory approvals for our product candidates; the timing of product launches; our ability to protect our intellectual property and operate our business without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others; and our estimates for future performance, anticipated operating losses, future revenues, capital requirements, and our needs for additional financing. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “potential,” “predicts,” “projects,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “goal,” or other variations of these terms (including their use in the negative) or by discussions of strategies, plans or intentions. These statements are only predictions based on current information and expectations and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The under lying information and expectations are likely to change over time. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Associated With Our Business We are a newly formed company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have any operations or an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire, merge with, engage in a capital stock exchange with, purchase all or substantially all of the assets of, or engage in any other similar business combination with a single operating entity, or one or more related or unrelated operating entities in the technology sector located in Israel, or, possibly, a company operating in Europe which management believes would benefit from establishing operations or facilities in Israel. will not generate any revenues or income (other than interest income, net of taxes, if any, on the proceeds of the initial public offering of our securities and the private placement) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when or if a business combination will occur. If we are forced to dissolve and liquidate before a business combination our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to dissolve, liquidate and wind up, there will be no amount payable upon such liquidation with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless. - 9 - You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies including the ability to receive all interest earned on the amount held in trust. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 following the consummation of our initial public offering and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC upon consummation of the initial public offering, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules, such as entitlement to all the interest earned on the funds deposited into the trust account. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, a significant amount of the interest earned on the funds deposited in the trust account will be released to us to fund our working capital and will not be available at all to those public stockholders redeeming in connection with a business combination and our units began trading immediately upon consummation of the initial public offering. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business combination. Based upon publicly available information, we have identified approximately 151 similarly structured blank check companies which have completed initial public offerings since 2003. Of the blank check companies which have completed their public offerings, 45 companies have consummated a business combination, while 24 other companies have announced they have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent with respect to a potential business combination, but have not yet consummated such business combinations and 8 other companies have liquidated or will be liquidating. Accordingly, there are approximately 74 blank check companies with approximately $13.4 billion in trust seeking to consummate a business combination. While many of these companies are targeted towards specific industries in which they must complete a business combination, certain of these companies may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. As a result, there may be significant demand for the types of privately-held companies we target, which demand may limit the number of potential acquisition targets for us. Further, the fact only 45 of such companies have consummated a business combination and 24 additional companies have entered into a definitive agreement or letter of intent for a business combination, may indicate there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately-held target businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly-held blank check companies like ours. We cannot assure you we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the prescribed time period. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period, we will be forced to liquidate. We may choose to enter into a business combination that would require redemption of fewer than 29.99% of the shares sold in the initial public offering. We will proceed with a business combination only if a majority of the shares of common stock cast at the meeting are voted in favor of the business combination, and public stockholders owning 29.99% or less of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their redemption rights. However, as part of the negotiations toward a business combination, our board of directors may, in the exercise of their business judgment, for example in order to preserve cash in the trust account in order to facilitate a particular business combination, agree that a business combination would only be consummated if a specified percentage less than 29.99% votes against the business combination and exercises their redemption rights. This could make it more difficult to consummate any proposed business combination. The terms on which we may effect a business combination can be expected to become less favorable as we approach our eighteen and twenty four month deadlines. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, we must adopt a plan of dissolution and liquidation and initiate procedures for our dissolution and liquidation and the distribution of our assets, including the funds held in the trust account, if we do not effect a business combination within 18 months after completion of our initial public offering (or within 24 months after the completion of our initial offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after completion of our initial public offering and the business combination related thereto has not been completed within such 18-month period). We have agreed with the trustee to promptly adopt a plan of dissolution and liquidation and initiate procedures for our dissolution and liquidation and the distribution of our assets, including the funds held in the trust account, upon expiration of the time periods set forth above. Any entity with which we negotiate, or attempt to negotiate, a business combination, will, in all likelihood, be aware of these time limitations and can be expected to negotiate accordingly. In such event, we may not be able to reach an agreement with any proposed target prior to such period and any agreement that is reached may be on terms less favorable to us than if we did not have the time period restrictions set forth above. Additionally, as the 18 or 24 month time periods draw closer, we may not have the desired amount of leverage in the event any new information comes to light after entering into definitive agreements with any proposed target but prior to consummation of a business transaction. - 10 - If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders from the trust account as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation will be less than $9.91 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account including but not limited to fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility and other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain an advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than the $9.91 per share held in the trust account, plus interest (net of any taxes due on such interest, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from the trust account and net of any amounts released to us as working capital or to fund costs associated with our plan of dissolution and liquidation if we do not consummate a business combination), due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to dissolve and liquidate, certain of our executive officers will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of various vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us, to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust account in order to preserve an $9.91 per-share liquidation price. Additionally, in the event we do not have sufficient funds available to us to consummate and complete our dissolution and liquidation, Ronen Zadok, our chief financial officer, secretary and a director, has agreed to fund all costs associated with our dissolution and liquidation. Based on information we have obtained from such individuals, we currently believe that such persons are capable of funding both a shortfall in our trust account and the costs associated with our dissolution and liquidation, even though we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. However, we cannot assure you that our executive officers will be able to satisfy those obligations. We believe the likelihood of our executive officers having to indemnify the trust account is minimal because we will endeavor to have all vendors and prospective target businesses, as well as other entities, execute agreements with us waiving all right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to monies held in the trust account. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our public stockholders. To the extent bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. Because a majority of our management's prior business experience has been limited to segments of the technology industry, they may lack the necessary experience to consummate a business combination with a target business in other segments or an alternative industry. A significant portion of our management’s prior business experience has been limited to certain segments of the technology industry, notably software, telecommunication, media services, IT services, Internet and consumer products. If we locate an attractive business combination unrelated to these segments of the technology industry, our management may not have the necessary experience to adequately assess the merits or risks of the industries or segments in which the business operates. Our current officers and directors may resign upon consummation of a business combination and we will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. Our ability to effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although it is possible that some of our key personnel will remain associated in various capacities with the target business following a business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business at the time of the business combination will remain in place. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of management will prove to be correct. - 11 - Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented to. None of our directors or officers has been a principal of, or affiliated with, a “blank check” company that executed a business plan similar to our business plan and none of such individuals is currently affiliated with any such entity. However, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. For a more complete discussion of our management's affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the sections below entitled “Management — Directors and Executive Officers” and “Management — Conflicts of Interest.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not complete a business combination within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering (or within 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering if certain extension criteria are satisfied). Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. Although we will seek stockholder approval to liquidate the trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with Section 280, we will seek stockholder approval to comply with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, requiring us to adopt a plan of dissolution that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from our vendors (such as accountants, lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) or potential target businesses. As described above, we intend to have all vendors and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account. As a result, the claims that could be made against us are significantly limited and the likelihood that any claim that would result in any liability extending to the trust is minimal. However, because we will not be complying with Section 280, our public stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any such liability of our stockholders will likely extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our public stockholders amounts owed to them by us. - 12 - We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination Pursuant to, among other documents, our certificate of incorporation, if we do not complete a business combination within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering, or within 24 months after the consummation of the initial public offering if the extension criteria described below have been satisfied our purpose and powers will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up. We view this obligation to dissolve and liquidate as an obligation to our public stockholders and neither we nor our board of directors will take any action to amend or waive any provision of our certificate of incorporation to allow us to survive for a longer period of time if it does not appear we will be able to consummate a business combination within the foregoing time periods. Upon dissolution, we will distribute to all of our public stockholders, in proportion to their respective equity interest, an aggregate sum equal to the amount in the trust account (net of taxes payable and that portion of the interest earned previously released to us). Our initial stockholders have waived their rights to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to their initial shares and have agreed to vote in favor of any plan of dissolution and liquidation which we will present to our stockholders for vote. There will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our warrants which will expire worthless. We will pay the costs of our dissolution and liquidation and we estimate such costs to be between $50,000 and $75,000. We believe there should be sufficient funds available either outside of the trust account or made available to us out of the net interest earned on the trust account and released to us as working capital, to fund this cost, although we cannot give any assurances thereof. Ronen Zadok, our chief financial officer, secretary and a director, has agreed to indemnify us for these expenses to the extent there are insufficient funds available from the proceeds not held in the trust account and interest released to us. Upon notice from us, the trustee of the trust account will liquidate the investments constituting the trust account and will turn over the proceeds to our transfer agent for distribution to our public stockholders as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation. Concurrently, we shall pay, or reserve for payment, from interest released to us from the trust account if available, our liabilities and obligations, although we cannot give you assurances that there will be sufficient funds for such purpose. The amounts held in the trust account may be subject to claims by third parties, such as vendors, prospective target business or other entities, if we do not obtain waivers in advance from such third parties prior to such parties providing us with services or entering into arrangements with them. If we do not consummate a business combination and dissolve, payments from the trust account to our public stockholders may be delayed. We currently believe that any plan of dissolution and liquidation subsequent to the expiration of the 18 and 24 month deadlines would proceed in approximately the following manner: · our board of directors will, consistent with its obligations described in our certificate of incorporation to dissolve, prior to the passing of the such deadline, convene and adopt a specific plan of dissolution and liquidation which it will then vote to recommend to our stockholders; at such time it will also cause to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting out such plan of dissolution and liquidation as well as the board’s recommendation of such plan; · upon such deadline, we would file our preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission; · if the Securities and Exchange Commission does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then, approximately 10 days following the passing of such deadline, we will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders, and approximately 30 days following the passing of such deadline we will convene a meeting of our stockholders, at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and liquidation; and · if the Securities and Exchange Commission does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive their comments approximately 30 days following the passing of such deadline. We will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty, and which may be substantial) and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and liquidation. In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and liquidation and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. Pursuant to the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our powers following the expiration of the permitted time periods for consummating a business combination will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation. The funds held in our trust account may not be distributed except upon our dissolution and, unless and until such approval is obtained from our stockholders, the funds held in our trust account will not be released. Consequently, holders of a majority of our outstanding stock must approve our dissolution in order to receive the funds held in our trust account and the funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. These procedures, or a vote to reject any plan of dissolution and liquidation by our stockholders, may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, we may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price thereafter at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. The foregoing does not apply to the 1,500,000 insider warrants purchased by certain of our officers and directors prior to our initial public offering, as such warrants are not subject to redemption while held by the initial holder or any permitted transferee of such initial holder. - 13 - Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise our warrants. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrant only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities law of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the warrants following completion of our initial public offering to the extent required by federal securities law, and we intend to comply with such undertaking, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. In addition, we have agreed to use our reasonable efforts to register the shares underlying the warrants under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the exercising warrant holders, to the extent an exemption is not available. The value of the warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Because the warrants sold in the private placement were originally issued pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements under the federal securities laws, holders of such warrants will be able to exercise their warrants even if, at the time of exercise, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants is not current. As a result, the holders of the warrants purchased in the private placement will not have any restrictions with respect to the exercise of their warrants. As described above, the holders of the warrants purchased in our initial public offering will not be able to exercise them unless we have a current registration statement covering the shares issuable upon their exercise. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 20,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. As of December 31, 2007, there were 17,102,411 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the underwriters’ unit purchase option) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitments as of December 31, 2007 to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in our initial public offering; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Additionally, the technology industry is capital intensive, traditionally using substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance acquisitions and working capital needs. If we finance the purchase of assets or operations through the issuance of debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; - 14 - · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. For a more complete discussion of the possible structure of a business combination, see the section below entitled “Effecting a business combination—Selection of a target business and structuring of a business combination.” We may have insufficient resources to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of consummating a business combination. We have reserved approximately $50,000 (not including up to $1,500,000 of interest we may earn on funds in the trust account, which we are entitled to in order to cover our operating expenses and our costs associated with a stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation if we do not consummate a business combination) from the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement to cover our operating expenses and to cover the expenses incurred in connection with a business combination. This amount is based on management’s estimates of the costs needed to fund our operations and consummate a business combination. Those estimates may prove inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with a business combination or if we expend a significant portion of the available proceeds in pursuit of a business combination that is not consummated. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our management or the existing stockholders or from third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing and our existing stockholders and management are not obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and cannot find additional financing, we may be forced to dissolve and liquidate as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation prior to consummating a business combination. Our ability to effect a business combination and to execute any potential business plan afterwards will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Although we expect most of our management and other key personnel to remain associated with us following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate terms with the combined company as part of any such combination. If we acquired a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a business combination, it may be less likely that management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment or consulting agreement or other arrangement. The determination to remain as officers of the resulting business will be made prior to the completion of the transaction and will depend upon the appropriateness or necessity of current management to remain. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. If management negotiates to be retained post-business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. None of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company which could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination. None of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company. Accordingly, you may not have sufficient information with which to evaluate the ability of our management team to identify and complete a business combination using the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement. Our management’s lack of experience in operating a blank check company could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination and force us to dissolve and liquidate the trust account to our public stockholders as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation. - 15 - Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. For a discussion of potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the section below entitled “Management—Conflicts of Interest.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. All of our directors own shares of our common stock, and four of our directors own warrants purchased in the private placement immediately prior to our initial business combination, which will not participate in the liquidation of the trust account as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our directors and officers own common stock in our company, and all of our officers and directors (other than Jacob Perry) own, warrants purchased in a private placement consummated prior to our initial public offering, but have waived their right to the liquidation of the trust account as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation with respect to those shares upon the liquidation of the trust account to our public stockholders if we are unable to complete a business combination. The shares and warrants owned by these persons will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of these directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, these directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. Our existing stockholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount available outside the trust account unless the business combination is consummated and therefore they may have a conflict of interest. Our existing stockholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount available outside the trust account, unless the business combination is consummated. The amount of available proceeds is based on management estimates of the capital needed to fund our operations and to consummate a business combination. Those estimates may prove to be inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with a business combination or if we expend a significant portion in pursuit of an acquisition that is not consummated. The financial interest of such persons could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of less than $5,000,000 and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. - 16 - If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. It is probable our initial business combination will be with a single target business, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Additionally, we may face obstacles to completing simultaneous acquisitions. Our initial business combination must be with a business or businesses with a collective fair market value of at least 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding deferred underwriting compensation) at the time of such acquisition, which amount is required as a condition to the consummation of our initial business combination. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the amount of funds available to consummate a business combination, possible complex accounting issues, which would include generating pro forma financial statements reflecting the operations of several target businesses as if they had been combined, and numerous logistical issues, which could include attempting to coordinate the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings with multiple target businesses. In addition, we may not have sufficient management, financial and other resources to effectively investigate the business and affairs of multiple acquisition candidates simultaneously or to negotiate the terms of multiple acquisition agreements at the same time which could result in a failure to properly evaluate multiple acquisitions. Further, we would also be exposed to the risk that conditions to closings with respect to the acquisition of one or more of the target businesses would not be satisfied bringing the fair market value of the initial business combination below the required fair market value of 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding deferred underwriting compensation) threshold. Accordingly, while it is possible we may attempt to effect our initial business combination with more than one target business, we are more likely to choose a single target business if deciding between one target business meeting such 80% threshold and comparable multiple target business candidates collectively meeting the 80% threshold. Consequently, it is probable that, unless the purchase price consists substantially of our equity, we will have the ability to complete only the initial business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their redemption rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. At the time we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder the right to have such stockholder's shares of common stock redeemed for cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such redemption rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their redemption rights than we expected. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. We will not be required to obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value of a proposed business combination if our board of directors independently determines that the target business has sufficient fair market value. The initial target business that we acquire must have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding deferred underwriting compensation) at the time of such acquisition. There is no limitation on our ability to raise funds privately or through loans that would allow us to acquire a target business or businesses with a fair market value in an amount considerably greater than 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding deferred underwriting compensation) at the time of such acquisition. We have not had any preliminary discussions, or made any agreements or arrangements, with respect to financing arrangements with any third party. The fair market value of such business will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential sales, earnings and cash flow and book value, and the price for which comparable businesses have recently been sold. If our board is not able to independently determine that the target business has a sufficient fair market value, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is a member of the FINRA with respect to the satisfaction of such criteria. Since any opinion, if obtained, would merely state that fair market value meets the 80% threshold described above, it is not anticipated that copies of such opinion would be distributed to our stockholders, although copies will be provided to stockholders who request it. We will not be required to obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value of a proposed business combination if our board of directors independently determines that the target business has sufficient fair market value. - 17 - We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to redeem for cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our officers and directors currently own shares of our common stock and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Shares owned by our officers or directors will not participate in the liquidation of the trust account and a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular target acquisition is appropriate for a business combination. Our officers and directors collectively own 20% of our issued and outstanding common stock. This ownership interest, together with any other acquisitions of our shares of common stock (or warrants which are subsequently exercised), could allow our officers or directors to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. The interests of our officers or directors and your interests may not always align and taking actions which require approval of a majority of our stockholders, such as selling our company, may be more difficult to accomplish. Our officers or directors have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to those shares of common stock upon the liquidation of the trust account if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Additionally, in a private placement consummated prior to the initial public offering, each of our officers and directors other than Jacob Perry, purchased equal amounts of an aggregate of 1,500,000 warrants from at a purchase price of $1.00 per warrant for a total purchase price of $1,500,000. The shares of common stock acquired prior to our initial public offering and any warrants owned by our officers and directors will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and our directors may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target acquisition and completing a business combination. Consequently, our officers’ discretion, and the discretion of our directors, in identifying and selecting a suitable target acquisition may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest and as a result of such conflicts management may choose a target acquisition that is not in the best interests of our stockholders. We will be dependent upon interest earned on the trust account to fund our search for a target company and consummation of a business combination. Of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement, only $50,000 is available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We will be dependent upon sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the additional working capital we will need to search for a target company and consummate a business combination. If interest rates were to decline substantially, we may not have sufficient funds available to complete a business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our insiders or others or be forced to dissolve, liquidate and wind up if we cannot consummate a business combination within the allotted time. - 18 - Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We issued warrants to purchase up to 4,000,000 shares of our common stock as part of the units sold in our initial public offering. In addition, we have sold to Maxim Group LLC an option to purchase up to 125,000 units (which includes 125,000 shares of our common stock and 125,000 warrants to purchase shares of our common stock). Each of our officers and directors, except Jacob Perry own an aggregate of 1,500,000 insider warrants that were purchased in a private placement consummated immediately prior to the initial public offering at a price of $1.00 per warrant. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our existing stockholders (including those officers and directors who have purchased warrants in the private placement) exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our existing stockholders, including our officers and directors who have purchased warrants in the private placement, are entitled to require us to register the resale of such warrants as well as their shares of common stock at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow. If such existing stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock (including those 1,500,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants included as part of the insider warrants), then there will be an additional 2,125,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market and we will bear the costs of registering such securities. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which limits the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, a FINRA-sponsored and operated inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not included in the Nasdaq Stock Market. Quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board limits the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. Lack of liquidity limits the price at which you may be able to sell our securities or your ability to sell our securities at all. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. We may be deemed to be an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, because, following our initial public offering and prior to the consummation of a business combination, we may be viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities (in this case United States government securities as described below) having a value exceeding 40% of our total assets. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our activities may be restricted which, among other problems, may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. Such restrictions include: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and - 19 - · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. However, we do not believe that our principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust are invested by the trust agent in “government securities” with specific maturity dates or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to avoid being deemed an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Notwithstanding our belief that we are not required to comply with the requirements of such act, in the event that the stockholders do not approve a plan of dissolution and liquidation and the funds remain in the trust account for an indeterminable amount of time, we may be considered to be an investment company and thus required to comply with such act. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. Risks Associated with Operations in Israel Acquisitions of companies with operations in Israel entail special considerations and risks. Additionally, although we are not limited to any particular industry, we intend to focus our search on target businesses in Israel that are engaged in the technology industry. If we are able to acquire a target business with operations in Israel, we will be subject to, and possibly adversely affected by, the following risks: If there are significant shifts in the political, economic and military conditions in Israel, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If we consummate a business combination with a target business in Israel, it will be directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel at that time and following acquisition. Major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could have a material adverse effect on the target business and its operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israeli companies. This may impair our ability following a business combination to be, or become, profitable. The termination or reduction of tax and other incentives that the Israeli Government provides to domestic companies may increase the costs involved in operating a company in Israel. The Israeli Government currently provides tax and capital investment incentives to domestic companies. Additionally, the Israeli Government currently provides grant and loan programs relating to research and development, marketing and export activities. In recent years, the Israeli Government has reduced the benefits available under these programs and Israeli Government authorities have indicated that the government may in the future further reduce or eliminate the benefits of those programs. We cannot assure you such benefits and programs would continue to be available following a business combination, or if available, to what extent. If such benefits and programs were terminated or further reduced, it could have an adverse affect on our results of operations following a business combination or make a specific business combination less attractive. If relations between the United States and Israel deteriorate, it could cause potential target businesses or their goods or services to become less attractive. Israel and the United States have historically had a positive relationship. A significant amount of Israel’s economic development has been financed principally by military and economic aid from the United States and many Israeli companies have been financed by United States venture capital and investment concerns. If the relationship between the United States and Israel deteriorates, it could adversely affect our operations or cause potential target businesses or their goods or services to become less attractive. Because all of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and, after the consummation of a business combination, substantially all of our assets will be located outside of the United States, it may be difficult for investors to enforce their legal rights against such individuals. All of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and, after the consummation of a business combination, substantially all of our assets will be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be convenient or even possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under federal securities laws or other United States laws. - 20 - Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of personnel to perform military service. Executive officers or key employees of a target business may also reside in Israel and be required to perform annual military reserve duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of these officers or key employees due to military service. Any such disruption could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because a substantial portion of many Israeli companies’ revenues is generated in dollars and euros, while a significant portion of their expenses is incurred in Israeli currency, a target business’ revenue may be reduced due to inflation in Israel and currency exchange rate fluctuations. A substantial portion of many Israeli companies’ revenues is generated in dollars and euros, while a significant portion of their expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, are paid in Israeli currency. As a result, a target business will likely be exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of Israeli currency in relation to the dollar or the euro, or that the timing of this devaluation will lag behind inflation in Israel. Because inflation has the effect of increasing the dollar and euro costs of an Israeli company’s operations, it would therefore have an adverse effect on our dollar-measured results of operations following a business combination. The value of NIS against the United States dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in Israel’s political and economic conditions. As our operations may be primarily in Israel, any significant revaluation of the NIS may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. Fluctuations in the NIS exchange rate, or even the appearance of instability in such exchange rate, could adversely affect our ability to find an attractive target business with which to consummate a business combination and to operate our business after a business combination. Any Israeli government grants we receive for research and development expenditures may be reduced or eliminated due to government budget cuts. These grants limit or prohibit our ability to manufacture products and transfer know-how outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. Following a business combination, the target business we acquire may be receiving, or may receive in the future, grants from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of Israel’s Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. Upon our acquisition of such entity, the Office of Chief Scientist will determine whether the entity will be eligible to continue receiving grants following the business combination. Additionally, the Israeli government has reduced the benefits available under this program in recent years and has indicated that it may reduce or eliminate these benefits in the future. When know-how or products are developed using Chief Scientist grants, the terms of these grants prohibit the transfer of the know-how out of Israel and would limit our ability to manufacture products based on this know-how outside of Israel without the prior approval of the Office of the Chief Scientist. Any approval, if given, will generally be subject to additional financial obligations. If we fail to comply with the conditions imposed by the Office of the Chief Scientist, including the payment of royalties with respect to grants received, we may be required to refund any payments previously received, together with interest and penalties. The difficulties in obtaining the approval of the Office of the Chief Scientist for the transfer of manufacturing rights out of Israel could have a material adverse effect on strategic alliances or other transactions that we may enter into in the future that provide for such a transfer. If we acquire a target business in Israel, any non-Israeli who becomes a holder of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock will be required to notify the Office of the Chief Scientist and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Office of the Chief Scientist. Because Israeli law will govern almost all of any target business’ material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our rights within Israel or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Israeli law will govern almost all of our target business’ material agreements. We cannot assure you the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of Israel. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in Israel may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. Any inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Because any target business that we attempt to complete a business combination with will be required to provide our stockholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with and reconciled to United States generally accepted accounting principles, prospective target businesses may be limited. In accordance with requirements of United States federal securities laws, in order to seek stockholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to, United States generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with United States generally accepted auditing standards. To the extent a prospective target business does not have financial statements which have been prepared with, or which can be reconciled to, United States generally accepted accounting standards, and audited in accordance with United States generally accepted auditing standards, we will not be able to acquire such target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses which we may acquire. - 21 - Exchange controls may restrict our ability to utilize our cash flow. Israeli companies are subject to rules and regulations on currency conversion. In 1998, the Israeli currency control regulations were liberalized significantly, and there are currently no currency controls in place. However, legislation remains in effect pursuant to which such currency controls could be imposed in Israel by administrative action at any time. We cannot assure you that such controls will not be reinstated, and if reinstated, would not have an adverse effect on our operations. If we fail to satisfy the conditions specified by any “Approved Enterprise” program, we may be required to pay increased taxes and would likely be denied the tax benefits to which we are currently entitled in the future. Following a business combination, the Investment Center of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, a part of the Israeli Government, may grant, or have already granted, “Approved Enterprise” status to some investment programs at any manufacturing facilities we may acquire. “Approved Enterprises” are companies incorporated in Israel that qualify, based on certain criteria, for special treatment in respect of governmental benefits and grants designed to promote foreign and domestic investment. When we generate net income from Approved Enterprise programs, the portion of our income derived from these programs would be exempt from tax for a period of two years and is subject to reduced tax for an additional period thereafter. The benefits available to an Approved Enterprise program depend upon the ability of the entity to adhere to the investment program filed with the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, and to the fulfillment of periodic reporting obligations. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The ability of any Israeli subsidiary to pay dividends is subject to Israeli law and the amount of cash dividends payable may be subject to devaluation in the Israeli currency. After the completion of any business combination, if such business combination involves us maintaining an Israeli subsidiary, the ability of such Israeli subsidiary to pay dividends may be governed by Israeli law, which provides that cash dividends will be paid by an Israeli corporation only out of retained earnings as determined for statutory purposes in Israeli currency. In the event of a devaluation of the Israeli currency against the dollar, the amount in dollars available for payment of cash dividends out of prior years’ earnings will decrease accordingly. Cash dividends paid by an Israeli corporation to United States resident corporate parents are subject to the Convention for the Avoidance of Double Taxation between Israel and the United States. Under the terms of the Convention, such dividends are subject to taxation by both Israel and the United States and, in the case of Israel, such dividends out of income derived in respect of a period for which an Israeli company is entitled to the reduced tax rate applicable to an Approved Enterprise are generally subject to withholding of Israeli income tax at source at a rate of 15%. Any Israeli subsidiary would also be subject to additional Israeli taxes in respect of such dividends, generally equal to the tax benefits previously granted in respect of the underlying income by virtue of any Approved Enterprise status. If any dividend is declared in the future and paid in a foreign currency, you may be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. If you are a U.S. shareholder, you will be taxed on the U.S. dollar value of your dividends at the time you receive them, even if you actually receive a smaller amount of U.S. dollars when the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Specifically, if a dividend is declared and paid in a foreign currency, the amount of the dividend distribution that you must include in your income as a U.S. holder will be the U.S. dollar value of the payments made in the foreign currency, determined at the spot rate of the foreign currency to the U.S. dollar on the date the dividend distribution is includible in your income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Thus, if the value of the foreign currency decreases before you actually convert the currency into U.S. dollars, you will be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. - 22 - Because service and enforcement of legal process against our executive officers and directors is uncertain, investors may not be able to obtain or collect upon a judgment against such individuals and we may not be able to enforce our indemnity rights against our executive officers. Service of process upon individuals or firms which are not resident in the United States may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Each of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. Furthermore, depending on the location of our assets and the assets of our directors and officers, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or such persons may not be collectible within the United States. We have appointed National Registered Agents, Inc. as our agent to receive service of process in any action against us in the United States. None of our officers or directors has consented to service of process in the United States or to the jurisdiction of any United States Court. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to distribute the proceeds held in trust to the holders of our common stock, our executive officers have agreed that they will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims, if any, of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us, or by any target business, and that have not executed an agreement waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in trust; provided, however, that such liability may not extend to claims of target businesses brought under Israeli law or in Israeli courts. Accordingly, if a judgment is obtained against the trust account, we may not be able to enforce our indemnity rights against our executive officers. There is substantial doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and pursuant to the provisions set forth above, an Israeli court may declare a foreign civil judgment enforceable. In order to transfer the proceeds of a foreign judgment enforced in Israel, outside of Israel, the transferring bank must notify the Controller of Foreign Currency of the Bank of Israel regarding the source of the funds. Under existing law, a foreign judgment payable in foreign currency may be paid in Israeli currency at the rate of exchange on the date of payment, but the judgment debtor may also make payment in foreign currency if the Israeli exchange control regulations then in effect permit such foreign currency payment. Pending collection, the amount of the judgment of an Israeli court stated in Israeli currency will ordinarily be linked to the Israeli consumer price index. Judgment creditors must bear the risk that they will be unable to convert their award into foreign currency that can be transferred out of Israel. All judgment creditors must bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. Risks Associated with the Technology Sector As mentioned elsewhere herein, our primary interest is in seeking a business combination with a company in the technology sector, although we may seek a business combination with a company in any industry. Below are some of the risks that we may face if we consummate a business combination in the technology industry. The technology sector is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability following a business combination. The technology industry is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We expect competition to continue and intensify in the future. Many of the competitors we expect to face following a business combination may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Many of our potential competitors have a significantly broader market presence and greater experience than we have. These advantages will allow them to expend considerably more of their resources in an attempt to generate revenue, and may allow them to use their greater resources more effectively than we can. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to take advantage of market opportunities and withstand market downturns better than we can. We believe the competition we would face would be based primarily on the following factors: · price; · marketing; · licenses; · timely introduction of new technologies; and · product positioning. Some of these competitors may also offer a wider range of services than we can and have greater name recognition and a larger client base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements. They may also be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to clients, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. If we are unable to compete effectively, it could harm our future business prospects. - 23 - We may not recoup the cost of developing new products. To establish market acceptance, we may have to dedicate significant time and money to research, intellectual property development, production, marketing and sales. These costs would be especially high and speculative in developing new products, where substantial expenses often precede meaningful revenues. Thus, we may not recoup the cost of developing any new revenue streams for lengthy periods or at all. Products may contain defects that may be difficult or even impossible to correct. Product defects could result in lost sales, additional costs, increased risk of liability and erosion of consumer and market confidence. Any technology product first introduced or released may contain software, hardware or other defects difficult to detect and correct. Correcting defects can be a time-consuming and costly task, and may take several months. The existence of defects and delays in correcting them could result in negative consequences, including, but not limited to, the following: · delays in shipping; · cancellation of orders; · additional warranty and insurance expense; · delays in the collection of receivables; · product returns; · increased risk of litigation and liability exposure; · loss of market acceptance of our products; · diversion of research and development resources from new product development; and · inventory write-downs. If key suppliers are unable to provide the raw materials required for production, we may not be able to obtain the raw materials from other sources on as favorable terms. Regardless of the industry in which we effect a business combination, we will purchase raw materials from third parties. These raw materials may be subject to substantial cyclical price fluctuations and other market disturbances, including supply shortages. Any failure of such third parties to procure the raw materials needed may force us to procure such materials from other sources, if available, which could be costly and time consuming. The lack of availability or increase in price of such materials, regardless of the reason, could further have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations, as we may be forced to procure such materials from outside parties. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. As a result of any business combination, we may be subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution or protection of the environment. Costs and capital expenditures relating to environmental, health or safety matters are subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose the requirements. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt operations or require modifications to facilities. Accordingly, environmental, health or safety regulatory matters may result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities. Our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers. We may compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. Some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in the competition for production. If we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. We cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. - 24 - International operations are subject to a variety of risks that could adversely affect those operations and thus our profitability and operating results. Our operations in countries outside the U.S., which are expected to be substantial and material, are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. We intend to pursue growth opportunities internationally, which could expose us to greater risks associated with international sales and operations. Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: · changes in foreign programs and policies; · changes in foreign regulatory, duty, tax or other requirements; · local product requirements; · longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S.; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · less protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the U.S.; · trade protection measures and import and export regulations and requirements; · work force instability; · political and economic instability; and · complex tax and cash management issues. Our ability to execute our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to respond to constantly changing trends and consumer demands. Our ability to execute our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to originate and define products and trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our products will need to appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We cannot assure you we will be able to develop appealing products or have the ability to meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you any new products we introduce will be accepted by consumers. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and trends could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. We may effect a business combination in an industry in which a substantial part of our revenue is derived from government contracts, which are often non-standard, involve competitive bidding, may be subject to cancellation with or without penalty and may produce volatility in earnings and revenue. Obtaining contracts from government agencies is challenging and government contracts often include provisions that are not standard in private commercial transactions. For example, government contracts may: · include provisions that allow the government agency to terminate the contract without penalty under some circumstances; · be subject to purchasing decisions of agencies that are subject to political influence; · include bonding requirements; · contain onerous procurement procedures; and · be subject to cancellation or reduction if government funding becomes unavailable or is cut back. Securing government contracts can be a protracted process involving competitive bidding. In many cases, unsuccessful bidders may challenge contract awards, which can lead to increased costs, delays and possible loss of the contract for the winning bidder. Protests and similar delays regarding any future government contracts of a material nature that may be awarded to us could result in materially adverse revenue volatility, making management of inventory levels, cash flow and profitability or loss inherently difficult. Outright loss of any material government contract through the protest process or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s financial results and stock price. Government agencies are subject to political, budgetary, purchasing and delivery constraints which may result in quarterly and annual revenues and operating results that may be irregular and difficult to predict. Such revenue volatility may make management of inventory levels, cash flow and profitability inherently difficult. In addition, if we are successful in winning such procurements, there may be unevenness in shipping schedules, as well as potential delays and changes in the timing of deliveries and recognition of revenue, or cancellation of such procurements. - 25 - Security breaches in systems we may sell or maintain could result in the disclosure of sensitive government information or private personal information that could result in the loss of clients, increased liability exposure and negative publicity. Many of the industries in which we are contemplating a business combination will involve exposing our company, and its products, to private personal information and information involved in sensitive government functions. Any protective measures we may use in these cases may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt the combined company’s business, damage its reputation and expose it to litigation and liability. A party who is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate sensitive or proprietary information or materials or cause interruptions or otherwise damage our products, services and reputation, and the property of our customers. If unintended parties obtain sensitive data and information, or create bugs or viruses or otherwise sabotage the functionality of our systems, we may receive negative publicity, incur liability to our customers or lose the confidence of our customers, any of which may cause the termination or modification of our contracts. Further, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses and liabilities that may result from such events. In addition, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect ourselves against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. However, protective or remedial measures may not be available at a reasonable price or at all, or may not be entirely effective if commenced. If we are unable to protect our patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights following a business combination, competitors may be able to use our technology or intellectual property rights, which could weaken our competitive position. If we acquire a target business that is the owner of patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, our operations may depend in part on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property rights for those assets, in the United States, Israel, Europe and in other countries. In those circumstances, we may file applications for patents, copyrights and trademarks as our management deems appropriate. We cannot assure you that these applications, if filed, will be approved, or that we will have the financial and other resources necessary to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by others. Additionally, we cannot assure you any patent, trademark or copyright obtained by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we are alleged to have infringed on the intellectual property, privacy or other rights of third parties, it could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. If, following a business combination, third parties allege we have infringed on their intellectual property rights, privacy rights or publicity rights or have defamed them, we could become a party to litigation. These claims and any resulting lawsuits could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights and/or restrict our ability to publish and distribute the infringing or defaming content. If we acquire several companies with the intent of merging them to achieve economies of combination, a failure to merge them smoothly may harm our financial results. If we acquire several companies, rather than a single one, with a total value of at least 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding $362,500 of deferred underwriting compensation) at the time of such acquisition, we would expect to achieve economies of combination by downsizing the combined management and administrative staffs into a smaller, more cost effective management team. If we are not able to achieve these economies of combination, our financial results could suffer. Risks Associated with Acquiring a Business Based in Europe In the event we seek to acquire an operating business currently located in Europe, regulations governing such acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our ability to consummate a business combination. Although the majority of our efforts will be spent on seeking an attractive Israeli company to acquire, our officers and directors have extensive contacts throughout the international business community. Accordingly, they may be introduced to companies located throughout Europe that may be attractive targets. The European Commission regulates mergers, full function joint ventures (i.e. ones which perform on a lasting basis all the functions of an autonomous economic entity) and the acquisition of holdings which confer decisive influence over an enterprise and which meet certain turnover thresholds specified in the EC Merger Regulation. Such transactions may not be carried out without prior approval from the European Commission. In the event we seek to acquire a European based company, we may be subject to additional regulatory obstacles which may have the effect of increasing the cost of, or delaying or preventing, such an acquisition. - 26 - European regulations governing any acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase revenues. It is expected that any business we seek to acquire that is located in Europe will be subject to direct and indirect regulation by the European Union and in the country in which the business is operated. The technology industry throughout Europe is heavily regulated and changes in regulations or requirements, changes in interpretation of existing regulations or failure to obtain required regulatory approvals or licenses could adversely affect our ability to operate or compete effectively. Changes in regulations and requirements applicable to competitive practices, pricing, licensing, taxation or other aspects of operations, including current or new technologies, products or services, could adversely affect our business prospects. Changes in regulations could also adversely affect our manufacturing and distribution processes, the timing and cost of new products or services and, ultimately, their commercial success. Finally, export controls, tariffs or other fees or levies imposed on our products, as well as environmental, product safety, security and other European regulations concerning the export, import, pricing or costs of any technologies, products and services, could adversely affect our results of operations and future business prospects. If our activities are subject to significant price and other regulatory controls in Europe, our competitive position and future profitability may be affected. Certain European regulatory controls address issues such as the prices a company may charge for certain products or services. We cannot provide assurances regulatory authorities will not increase the severity of such price controls, nor extend the products or services to which such controls apply (including any new products or services we may offer in the future). These controls may adversely affect our market share, the severity of competition and our future profitability. We may encounter difficulties in moving all or a part of the operations of any European business we acquire. While we may determine not to move any of the operations of any acquired company to Israel, in the event we determine to do so, we would expect to face many regulatory hurdles in connection with such a move. Such a move would also require financial, logistical and other resources which could increase the time and cost required to effectuate such change. Additionally, such a move could have a negative impact on relationships with customers, suppliers, vendors and distributors. Any or all of such factors could be expected to have a negative impact on our financial condition and future business prospects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 