Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this report, including our financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We have been in business only since August 2003. Our limited operating history makes evaluation of our business difficult. We were incorporated in the State of California as Network Dynamics in August 2003 and have limited historical financial data upon which to base planned operating expenses or to accurately forecast our future operating results. We have a limited operating history which makes it difficult to evaluate our performance. You must consider our prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties we face as an early stage company with a limited operating history. These risks include uncertainty as to whether we will be able to: 9 · increase revenues from sales of our suite of Internet security products; · successfully protect our Collaborative Internet Security Network from all security attacks; · successfully protect personal computer or corporate networks against all Internet threats; · respond effectively to competitive pressures; · protect our intellectual property rights; · continue to develop and upgrade our technology; and · continue to renew our customers’ subscriptions to current and future products. We incurred net losses for four of our last five fiscal years. If we continue to incur losses for a significant amount of time, the value of your investment could be adversely affected and you could even lose your entire investment. We incurred a net loss of $140,909 and $3,247,969 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, respectively, and we had net income of $642,896 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. We incurred a net loss of $5,507,600 and $5,866,123 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively. As we move from being a marketing focused software publisher to a developer of a suite of Internet security products, we are likely to continue to incur losses. We cannot predict when, or if, we will be profitable in the future. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it. As of March 28, 2008 we had approximately $236,000 in cash. We believe that we can continue to operate through July 2008 with this cash, the proceeds from offerings we undertake and the revenues we generate from our suite of Internet security products. In order to meet our financial obligations for a period of 12 months, we will need an additional $1,100,000. If we are not able to raise additional funds by July 2008, our business could be adversely affected. We have no committed sources of additional capital. We have been funding our operations and capital expenditures from limited cash flow from operations, our cash on hand and the proceeds from the offerings of our debt and equity securities. As of March 28, 2008 we had approximately $236,000 in cash. We believe that this cash combined with the revenues we generate from our products and the proceeds from offerings we undertake will fund our operations through July 2008. However, we will need additional funds to continue our operations beyond that date, pursue business opportunities (such as expansion or the development of new products or services), react to unforeseen difficulties or respond to competitive pressures. As a result of employee attrition, a reduction in executive salaries and a reduction in the number of independent contractors we need to employ due to the completion of the development and launch of our CyberDefender Early Detection Center/CyberDefender FREE 2.0 product, we have significantly decreased the rate at which we use cash. We estimate that we will need approximately $1,100,000 in addition to the cash flow from our operations and the cash we currently have on hand to continue our business for the next 12 months. We cannot assure you that any financing arrangements will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If additional financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue our operations, in which case our securities would become worthless. If we choose to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our existing equity security holders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests, and holders of the additional equity securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we obtain additional financing by issuing debt securities, the terms of these securities could restrict or prevent us from paying dividends and could limit our flexibility in making business decisions. 10 We market our product through search engines (for example, Google, Yahoo! and MSN), e-mail and banner advertising and affiliate marketing. If we fail to market our product effectively, our sales could decline and our results of operations would be adversely affected. We market our product and related services over the Internet, primarily through space purchased from Internet-based marketers and search engines. Currently we drive traffic to our website by spending approximately 82% of our advertising budget on pay-per-click advertising on Google, Yahoo! and MSN. While the amount that we spend on this advertising varies on a daily basis, in general approximately 65% of our advertising budget is spent on pay-per-click advertising through Yahoo!, 15% through Google and 2% through MSN. If Internet advertising fails to perform as we anticipate, our sales could decline and the cost of the advertising, per click, would increase. This could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations. If we cannot find businesses willing to advertise inside our ad-supported software, we may not achieve our revenue targets and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our ad-supported CyberDefenderFREE 2.0 software includes small banners imbedded inside the user interface. These small banners are displayed on the top right corner of the software and rotate randomly throughout the day and as users interact with the software. These banners link to the websites of the businesses providing the advertising. Since there are thousands of potential businesses that advertise, we have decided to work with advertising networks, which are companies that represent many advertisers at the same time and are able to provide us with new advertisers on a consistent basis. Examples of such advertising networks include ValueClick Inc., Advertising.com, and Traffic Market Place/TMP, but there are many others. We are selling this advertising space based on what is commonly known in the industry as Cost Per Thousand (CPM), where the advertiser pays us a set fee for each one thousand ad impressions, or Cost Per Click (CPC), where the advertiser pays us a set fee for each click delivered to its site, or Cost Per Action (CPA), where the advertiser pays us a set fee for each action that takes place after the user clicks on the ad and visits the advertiser’s web site. If we fail to generate a significant base of CyberDefenderFREE 2.0 users, we may not generate enough daily advertising impressions to be attractive to advertising networks. This would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We face intense competition from other providers of Internet security software. If we cannot offer consumers a reason to use our software instead of the software marketed by our competitors, our business and the results of our operations will be adversely affected. We have many competitors in the markets for our product. Our competitors include software companies that offer products that directly compete with our product or that bundle their software products with Internet security software offered by another company. End-user customers may prefer purchasing Internet security software that is manufactured by the same company that provides its other software programs because of greater product breadth offered by the company, perceived advantages in price, technical support, compatibility or other issues. Some of our competitors include WebRoot Software, Kaspersky Labs and Sunbelt Software. Many of our competitors have greater brand name recognition and financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do and consequently may have an ability to influence customers to purchase their products rather than ours. Our future and existing competitors could introduce products with superior features, scalability and functionality at lower prices than our product, and could also bundle existing or new products with other more established products in order to compete with us. Our competitors could also gain market share by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our other competitors. Finally, because new distribution methods offered by the Internet and electronic commerce have removed many of the barriers to entry historically faced by start-up companies in the software industry, we may face additional sources of competition in the future. Our goal in creating CyberDefender FREE 2.0 was to differentiate our software from that of our competitors and to make it more attractive to consumers by offering it for free. If this marketing strategy is unsuccessful, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. 11 If we are unable to develop new and enhanced Internet security products, such as products that protect devices like mobile telephones or PDAs, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to address the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing, acquiring and introducing new products, product updates and services on a timely basis. For example, in November 2006 we introduced our security suite of products, CyberDefender Early Detection Center/CyberDefender FREE 2.0, in response to new products released by companies such as Symantec. We must also keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. We intend to commit a portion of our resources to developing new applications for threat research and new security applications for Web 2.0 and social networking environments. However, if we are unable to successfully develop such products or if we develop these products but demand for them does not materialize or occurs more slowly than we expect, we will have expended resources (such as personnel and equipment) and capital without realizing sufficient revenue to recover these costs, and our operating results could be adversely affected. Because of the constant development of new or improved products in the software industry, we must continually update our products or create new products to keep pace with the latest advances. While we do our best to test these products prior to their release, they may nevertheless contain significant errors and failures, which could adversely affect our operating results. With the introduction of Vista, a new operating system from Microsoft, and constant changes in the software industry as new standards and processes emerge, we are required to continually update our suite of Internet security products. While we do our best to test these products prior to their release, due to the speed with which we are required to release new or updated products to remain competitive, they could be released with errors or they may fail altogether. These errors or failures may put the users of our software at risk because their computers will not be adequately protected against spyware, viruses, spam or phishing attacks. We try to reduce this risk by constantly upgrading our software and by working closely with the creators of the operating platforms, particularly Microsoft, to make sure that our software works with the operating platform. However, if our existing suite of Internet security products and our future products fail to perform adequately or fail entirely, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our ability to effectively recruit and retain qualified officers and directors could be adversely affected if we experience difficulty in obtaining directors' and officers' liability insurance. We may be unable to obtain or maintain insurance as a public company on terms affordable to us to cover liability for claims made against our officers and directors. If we are unable to adequately insure our officers and directors, we may not be able to retain or recruit qualified officers and directors to manage our business. Loss of any of our key management personnel, particularly Gary Guseinov, could negatively impact our business and the value of our common stock. Our ability to execute our business strategy will depend on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our management team. We depend heavily on the services of Gary Guseinov, our Chief Executive Officer, Igor Barash, our Chief Information Officer and Secretary, and Bing Liu, a director and formerly our Chief Software Architect. We believe that the skills of Mr. Guseinov would be particularly difficult to replace. We do not have long-term employment agreements with any of the members of our management team, except Gary Guseinov. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Barash, but it is “at-will” and does not preclude him from leaving us. We have an independent contractor agreement with Mr. Liu that will end in July 2008. While we believe that this agreement will be renewed, we have no guarantee that Mr. Liu will continue to provide services to us. 12 In January 2008 Ivan Ivankovich, our Chief Financial Officer, resigned. On February 8, 2008 we announced that Michael Barrett joined us as Chief Financial Officer. As we lose members of our key management personnel, we may be forced to expend significant time and money in the pursuit of replacements, which could result in both a delay in the implementation of our business plan and the diversion of limited working capital. We cannot assure you that we will find satisfactory replacements for these key management personnel at all, or on terms that are not unduly expensive or burdensome to our company. We do not maintain key man insurance policies on any of our key officers or employees. Although we have in the past and intend in the foreseeable future to issue stock options or other equity-based compensation, such incentives may not be sufficient to attract and retain key personnel. To date, our business has been developed assuming that laws and regulations that apply to Internet communications and e-commerce will remain minimal. Changes in government regulation and industry standards may adversely affect our business and operating results. We have developed our business assuming that the current state of the laws and regulations that apply to Internet communications, e-commerce and advertising will remain minimal. At this time, complying with these laws and regulations is not burdensome. However, as time exposes various problems created by Internet communications and e-commerce, laws and regulations may become more prevalent. These regulations may address issues such as user privacy, spyware, pricing, intellectual property ownership and infringement, taxation, and quality of products and services. This legislation could hinder growth in the use of the Internet generally and decrease the acceptance of the Internet as a communications, commercial and advertising medium. Changes in current regulations or the addition of new regulations could affect the costs of communicating on the Internet and adversely affect the demand for our products or otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is the development and distribution of software. If we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our technology, our business could be harmed. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other measures to protect our proprietary information, especially our software codes. All of these measures afford only limited protection. These measures may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, and others may develop technologies or processes that are similar or superior to our technology. We may not have the proprietary information controls and procedures in place that we need to protect our proprietary information adequately. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy our software or obtain or use information that we regard as proprietary, which could harm our business. Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. As the number of products in the software industry increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, we believe that we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims, which could include patent, copyright and trademark infringement claims. In addition, former employers of our former, current or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us the confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. Any such claim, with or without merit, could: 13 · be time consuming to defend; · result in costly litigation; · divert management’s attention from our core business; · require us to stop selling, delay providing or redesign our product; and · require us to pay monetary amounts as damages, for royalty or licensing arrangements. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities The holders of our 10% Secured Convertible Debentures and 7.41% Senior Secured Notes have a security interest in all of our assets. If we were to fail to pay these obligations as required, or any other event of default set forth in the debt securities were to occur, these investors could foreclose on their security interest and your securities could become worthless. In September 2006 we placed $3,243,378 in aggregate principal amount of our 10% Secured Convertible Debentures of which $2,783,378 are outstanding after conversion of $460,000 into common stock and since April 2007 we placed $864,000 in aggregate principal amount of our 7.41% Senior Secured Notes. The payment of these obligations is secured with all of our assets. If we were to default in our repayment obligation, or any other event of default set forth in the debt securities were to occur, the investors who purchased these securities could foreclose the security interest, take our assets and sell or otherwise dispose of them. If that were to happen, we may not be able to continue our business and your securities would become worthless. Holders of our 10% Secured Convertible Debentures have anti-dilution rights that are triggered by a disposition of our common stock at a price per share that is lower than the conversion price of the debt securities. These rights are not available to the holders of our common stock. If future issuances of our common stock trigger the anti-dilution rights, your investment in our common stock would be diluted to the extent such convertible debentures are converted. Holders of our 10% Secured Convertible Debentures may convert the outstanding principal amount and accrued interest of the debentures to common stock at a conversion price of $1.00 per share. If all the holders of our debentures converted the debentures to common stock, we would be required to issue an additional 2,783,378 shares. If, during the time that the debentures are outstanding, we sell or grant any option to purchase (other than options issued pursuant to a plan approved by our board of directors), or sell or grant any right to reprice our securities, or otherwise dispose of or issue any common stock or common stock equivalents entitling any person to acquire shares of our common stock at a price per share that is lower than the conversion price of the debentures (which, for purposes of this discussion will be designated as the “Base Conversion Price”) or that is higher than the Base Conversion Price but lower than the daily volume weighted average price of the common stock, then the conversion price of the debentures will be reduced. In the first instance, the conversion price will be reduced to the Base Conversion Price. In the second instance, the conversion price will be multiplied by a fraction the denominator of which will be the number of shares of common stock outstanding on the date of the issuance plus the number of additional shares of common stock offered for purchase and the numerator of which will be the number of shares of common stock outstanding on the date of such issuance plus the number of shares which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares so offered would purchase at the daily volume weighted average price. For example, if we sold common stock to an investor at $0.50 per share while the convertible debentures remain outstanding, then the holder of a convertible debenture for $100,000 could convert it into 200,000 shares of common stock rather than into 100,000 shares. Alternatively, if the daily volume weighted average price of the common stock was $2.00, but we sold 100,000 shares of common stock at $1.50 per share, then the conversion price would be reduced from $1.00 to $0.996 (assuming 14,565,688 shares of common stock outstanding on the date of sale). The convertible debenture holders also have anti-dilution rights in the event that we undertake a rights offering or make a pro rata distribution of, among other things, our assets to the holders of our common stock. 14 A reduction in the conversion price resulting from any of the foregoing would allow the debenture holders to receive more shares of common stock than they would otherwise be entitled to receive. In that case, your investment would be diluted to a greater extent than it would be if no adjustment to the conversion price were required. Holders of warrants issued in conjunction with our 10% Secured Convertible Debentures, our 7.41% Senior Secured Notes and units we began offering in October 2007 also have anti-dilution rights that are triggered by a disposition of our common stock at a price per share that is lower than the exercise price of the warrants. These rights are not available to the holders of our common stock. If future issuances of our common stock trigger the anti-dilution rights, your investment in our common stock would be diluted to the extent that the warrants are exercised. In conjunction with the offering of our 10% Secured Convertible Debentures, our 7.41% Senior Secured Notes and the units we began offering in October 2007, we issued warrants that have anti-dilution rights. Pursuant to the warrant agreements, if we issue common stock or common stock equivalents at a price lower than the warrant exercise price (the “Base Share Price”), then the warrant exercise price will be reduced to equal the Base Share Price and the number of warrant shares issuable will be increased so that the aggregate exercise price, after taking into account the decrease, will be equal to the aggregate exercise price prior to the adjustment. For example, if the warrant allows the investor to purchase 1,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price is $1.25, and we subsequently sold shares of common stock for $1.00, the warrant exercise price would be reduced to $1.00 and the number of shares of common stock that could be purchased would be increased to 1,250 from 1,000. Furthermore, if, during the time that the warrants are outstanding, we sell or grant any option to purchase, or sell or grant any right to reprice our securities, or otherwise dispose of or issue any common stock or common stock equivalents entitling any person to acquire shares of our common stock at a price per share that is higher than the exercise price but lower than the daily volume weighted average price (“VWAP”) of the common stock, or if we issue rights, options or warrants to all holders of our common stock but not to the warrant holders entitling them to subscribe for or purchase shares of of our common stock at a price per share less than the VWAP, then the exercise price of the warrants will be reduced by a fraction, the denominator of which will be the number of shares of common stock outstanding on the date of such issuance plus the number of additional shares of common stock offered for subscription or purchase, and of which the numerator will be the number of shares of common stock outstanding on the date of such issuance plus the number of shares which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares so offered would purchase at the VWAP. For example, if the daily VWAP of the common stock was $2.00, but we sold 100,000 shares of common stock at $1.50 per share, then the exercise price would be reduced from $1.25 to $1.2475 (assuming 14,565,688 shares of common stock outstanding on the date of sale). The warrant holders also have anti-dilution rights in the event that we undertake a pro rata distribution of, among other things, our assets to the holders of our common stock. In such a case the warrant exercise price will be adjusted by multiplying the exercise price in effect immediately prior to the record date fixed for determination of shareholders entitled to receive such distribution by a fraction of which the denominator will be the VWAP determined as of the record date, and of which the numerator will be the VWAP on the record date less the then per share fair market value at the record date of the portion of the assets so distributed applicable to one outstanding share of our common stock, as determined by our board of directors in good faith. 15 Our common stock began to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board on August 2, 2007. We cannot assure you that an active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. Even if a market develops, you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. While our common stock began to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board on August 2, 2007, to date an active trading market has not developed and we cannot guarantee you that an active trading market will ever develop. This situation may be attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk averse and may be reluctant to follow a relatively unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, even though our common stock is now accepted for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer that has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. Because an active trading market may not develop, you may be unable to sell your shares if you need to liquidate your investment. Our common stock is considered a “penny stock”. The application of the “penny stock” rules to our common stock could limit the trading and liquidity of the common stock, adversely affect the market price of our common stock and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. Our common stock is a “low-priced” security or “penny stock” under rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In accordance with these rules, broker-dealers participating in transactions in low-priced securities must first deliver a risk disclosure document which describes the risks associated with such stocks, the broker-dealer’s duties in selling the stock, the customer’s rights and remedies and certain market and other information. Furthermore, the broker-dealer must make a suitability determination approving the customer for low-priced stock transactions based on the customer’s financial situation, investment experience and objectives. Broker-dealers must also disclose these restrictions in writing to the customer, obtain specific written consent from the customer, and provide monthly account statements to the customer. The effect of these restrictions will probably decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, will decrease liquidity of our common stock and will increase transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common stock as compared to other securities. The stock market in general and the market prices for penny stocks in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad fluctuations may be the result of unscrupulous practices that may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Shareholders should be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093 dated April 17, 1991, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (1) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (2) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (3) boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (4) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (5) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. The occurrence of these patterns or practices could increase the volatility of our share price. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management's attention and resources. 16 Our executive officers and directors, along with their friends and family, own or control approximately 55.6% of our outstanding common stock, which may limit the ability of our shareholders, whether acting alone or together, to influence our management. Additionally, this concentration of ownership could discourage or prevent a potential takeover that might otherwise result in our shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for our common stock. Approximately 55.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock is owned and controlled by a group of insiders, including current directors and executive officers and their friends and family. Mr. Gary Guseinov, our Chief Executive Officer and President, owns 45.8% of our common stock. Such concentrated control may adversely affect the price of our common stock. These insiders may be able to control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors, mergers or other business combinations. Such concentrated control may also make it difficult for our shareholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock in the event we merge with a third party or enter into different transactions that require shareholder approval. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. If you acquire shares of common stock, you may have no effective voice in our management. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, and we may never pay dividends. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support the development of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including but not limited to our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited by California state law. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Limitations on director and officer liability and our indemnification of officers and directors may discourage shareholders from bringing suit against a director. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide, with certain exceptions as permitted by California law, that a director or officer shall not be personally liable to us or our shareholders for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for acts or omissions which involve intentional misconduct, fraud or knowing violation of law, or unlawful payments of dividends. These provisions may discourage shareholders from bringing suit against a director for breach of fiduciary duty and may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation brought by shareholders on our behalf against a director. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by California law. Future sales of our common stock could put downward selling pressure on our shares, and adversely affect the stock price. There is a risk that this downward pressure may make it impossible for an investor to sell his shares at any reasonable price, if at all. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, if such a market develops, or the perception that such sales could occur, could put downward selling pressure on our shares, and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 17 The OTC Bulletin Board is an electronic quotation system, not an issuer listing service, market or exchange. Therefore, buying and selling stock on the OTC Bulletin Board is not as efficient as buying and selling stock through an exchange. As a result, it may be difficult for you to sell your common stock or you may not be able to sell your common stock for an optimum trading price. The OTC Bulletin Board is a regulated electronic quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last sale prices and volume limitations in over-the-counter securities. Because trades and quotations on the OTC Bulletin Board involve a manual process, the market information for such securities cannot be guaranteed. In addition, quote information, or even firm quotes, may not be available. The manual execution process may delay order processing and intervening price fluctuations may result in the failure of a limit order to execute or the execution of a market order at a significantly different price. Execution of trades, execution reporting and the delivery of legal trade confirmations may be delayed significantly. Consequently, one may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at the optimum trading prices. When fewer shares of a security are being traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, volatility of prices may increase and price movement may outpace the ability to deliver accurate quote information. Lower trading volumes in a security may result in a lower likelihood of an individual’s orders being executed, and current prices may differ significantly from the price one was quoted by the OTC Bulletin Board at the time of the order entry. Orders for OTC Bulletin Board securities may be canceled or edited like orders for other securities. All requests to change or cancel an order must be submitted to, received and processed by the OTC Bulletin Board. Due to the manual order processing involved in handling OTC Bulletin Board trades, order processing and reporting may be delayed, and an individual may not be able to cancel or edit his order. Consequently, one may not able to sell shares of common stock at the optimum trading prices. The dealer’s spread (the difference between the bid and ask prices) may be large and may result in substantial losses to the seller of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board if the common stock or other security must be sold immediately. Further, purchasers of securities may incur an immediate “paper” loss due to the price spread. Moreover, dealers trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may not have a bid price for securities bought and sold through the OTC Bulletin Board. Due to the foregoing, demand for securities that are traded through the OTC Bulletin Board may be decreased or eliminated. Item 