Item 1A. Risk Factors Ownership of the common stock of the Company involves certain risks. Holders of the Company’s securities and prospective investors should consider carefully the following risks and other information in this document, including our historical financial statements and related notes, in evaluating an investment in the Company’s common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, perhaps significantly. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Changes in the ESAs with, or lack of support by, NCM LLC’s founding members could adversely affect our revenue, growth and profitability The ESAs with NCM LLC’s founding members are critical to our business. The three ESAs each have an initial term of 30 years beginning February 13, 2007 and provide us with a five-year right of first refusal, which begins one year prior to the end of the term of the ESA. The term of the ESAs as they relate to each of the Fathom consumer and business event divisions, is approximately five years from the IPO with provisions for automatic renewals for a series of additional five year terms through February 2037, if certain financial performance conditions are met with respect to each division. NCM LLC’s founding members’ theatres represent approximately 87% of the screens and approximately 89% of the attendance in our network as of December 30, 2010. If any one of the ESAs were terminated, not renewed at its expiration or found to be unenforceable, it would have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial condition. The ESAs require the cooperation, investment and support of the founding members, the absence of which could adversely affect us. Pursuant to the ESAs, NCM LLC’s founding members must make investments to replace digital network equipment within their theatres and equip newly constructed theatres with digital network equipment. If the founding members do not have adequate financial resources or operational strength, and if they do not replace equipment or equip new theatres to maintain the level of operating functionality that we have today, or if such equipment becomes obsolete, we may have to make additional capital expenditures or our advertising, Fathom Events revenue and operating margins may decline. If the founding members reject advertising or choose not to participate in certain Fathom Business or Consumer events under the terms of the ESAs because they believe it would adversely affect their film attendance levels or the reputation of their company, our revenue from these businesses would be reduced. If the non-competition provisions of the ESAs are deemed unenforceable, NCM LLC’s founding members could compete against us and our business could be adversely affected With certain limited exceptions, each of the ESAs prohibits the applicable founding member from engaging in any of the business activities that we provide in the founding member’s theatres under the ESA, and from owning interests in other entities that compete with us. These provisions are intended to prevent the founding members from harming our business by providing cinema advertising services directly to their theatres or by entering into agreements with third-party cinema advertising providers. However, under state and federal law, a court may determine that a non-competition covenant is unenforceable, in whole or in part, for reasons including, but not limited to, the court’s determination that the covenant: • is not necessary to protect a legitimate business interest of the party seeking enforcement; • unreasonably restrains the party against whom enforcement is sought; or • is contrary to the public interest. Enforceability of a non-competition covenant is determined by a court based on all of the facts and circumstances of the specific case at the time enforcement is sought. For this reason, it is not possible for us to 27 Table of Contents predict whether, or to what extent, a court would enforce the non-competition provisions contained in the ESAs. If a court were to determine that the non-competition provisions are unenforceable, the founding members could compete directly against us or enter into an agreement with another cinema advertising provider that competes against us. Any inability to enforce the non-competition provisions, in whole or in part could cause our revenue to decline. Because we rely heavily on NCM LLC’s founding members’ ability to attract customers, any reduction in attendance at founding member theatres could reduce our revenue, or if one of NCM LLC’s founding members declared bankruptcy, the ESA with that founding member may be rejected, renegotiated or deemed unenforceable Our business is affected by the success of NCM LLC’s founding members, who operate in a highly competitive industry. From the late 1990s through 2002, the number of movie screens and the level of theatre attendance in the U.S. increased substantially, as movie theatres began to offer new amenities such as stadium seating, improved projection quality and superior sound systems. Annual theatre attendance has fluctuated over the last several years depending on the quality of motion pictures released by the major and independent studios. Over the last 20 years theatre attendance has fluctuated from year to year but on average has grown by an aggregate annual rate of approximately 1%. If future theatre attendance declines significantly over an extended time period, one or more of NCM LLC’s founding members may face financial difficulties and could be forced to sell or close theatres or reduce the number of screens it builds or upgrades. Attendance may also decline if the founding members fail to maintain their theatres and provide amenities that consumers prefer, or if they cannot compete successfully on pricing. NCM LLC’s founding members also may not successfully compete for licenses to exhibit quality films and are not assured a consistent supply of motion pictures since they do not have long-term arrangements with major film distributors. Any of these circumstances could reduce our revenue because our national advertising revenue, and local advertising to a lesser extent, depends on the number of theatre patrons who view our advertising and pre-feature show. Each of NCM LLC’s founding members currently has a significant amount of indebtedness, which is below investment grade. In 2000 and 2001, several major motion picture exhibition companies filed for bankruptcy. For example, each of United Artists, Edwards Theatres and Regal Cinemas (which are predecessor companies to Regal), and General Cinemas and Loews Cineplex (which are predecessor companies to AMC) filed for bankruptcy during 2000 or 2001. The industry-wide construction of larger, more expensive megaplexes featuring stadium seating in the late 1990s that rendered existing, smaller, sloped-floor theatres under long-term leases obsolete and unprofitable, were significant contributing factors to these bankruptcies. If a bankruptcy case were commenced by or against a founding member, it is possible that all or part of the ESA with that founding member could be rejected by a trustee in the bankruptcy case pursuant to Section 365 or Section 1123 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, or by the founding member, and thus not be enforceable. Alternatively, the founding member could seek to renegotiate the ESA in a manner less favorable to us than the existing agreement. In addition, the founding member could seek to sell or otherwise dispose of theatres, which might result in the removal of those theatres from our network if the acquirer did not agree to continue to allow us to sell advertising in the acquired theatres, which would likely result in the surrender of LLC units from the founding member. Because we sell advertising based on the number of theatre patrons that will view the advertisement, a reduction in the number of theatres in our network could reduce our advertising revenue. The recent and ongoing global economic uncertainty may adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition As widely reported, financial markets in the U.S., Europe and Asia have experienced extreme disruption since late 2008, and while there has been improvement during 2010, uncertainty remains regarding when the economy will improve to historical growth levels. Any return to the conditions that existed during the recent recession or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including declining consumer confidence, concerns about inflation or deflation, the threat of another recession, increases in the rates of default and 28 Table of Contents bankruptcy and extreme volatility in the credit and equity markets, may lead to decreased demand or delay in payments by our customers or to slowing of their payments to us, and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by these actions. These challenging economic conditions also may result in: • increased competition for fewer advertising, business meeting and entertainment programming dollars; • pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross margin; • reduced credit availability and/or access to capital markets; • difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited visibility into the spending plans of current or prospective customers; or • customer financial difficulty and increased risk of doubtful accounts receivable. Additionally, we use interest rate swaps to reduce our exposure to various interest rate risks, which qualify for hedge accounting for financial reporting purposes. Failure through bankruptcy or otherwise of the interest rate swap counterparties could cause these instruments to become ineffective for hedge accounting purposes, which could require any gains or losses associated with these instruments to be reported in our earnings each period. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase the volatility of our stock price. We are unable to predict the timing, duration or severity of any new disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries. The markets for advertising, meeting management and event content are competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully The market for advertising is very competitive. Cinema advertising is a small component of the overall U.S. advertising market and thus we must compete with established, larger and better known national and local media platforms such as cable, broadcast and satellite television networks and newly emerging media platforms such as the Internet. We compete for advertising directly with all media platforms, including radio and television broadcasting, cable and satellite television services, various local print media, billboards and Internet portals and search engines. We also compete directly with other cinema advertising companies. We expect these competitors to devote significant effort to maintaining and growing their respective positions in the cinema advertising segment. We also expect existing competitors and new entrants to the cinema advertising business to constantly revise and improve their business models in light of challenges from us or competing media platforms. If we cannot respond effectively to advances by our competitors, our business may be adversely affected. Our Fathom Business division facilitates live and pre-recorded events in theatre auditoriums. These events are typically, but not exclusively scheduled from Monday through Thursday during off-peak hours while theatre attendance for movies is traditionally low. This business competes for customers with a number of venues including hotels, conference facilities, restaurants, arenas and other convention properties, as well as virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks. Accordingly, our ability to increase sales in our Fathom Business division is contingent on our ability to attract new customers and compete effectively against other well-established and well-capitalized venues. Our Fathom Consumer division focuses on the distribution of entertainment programming products. It includes live and pre-recorded concerts, opera, symphony and other types of music events, concert and DVD product releases, theatrical premieres, Broadway plays, as well as live sports and other special events. This business competes for music, sports and other entertainment programming with event venues and other national entertainment networks, some of which offer greater geographic reach and larger audiences. Accordingly, our ability to source a consistent flow of programming is contingent on our ability to develop and sustain relationships with content owners and our ability to continue to expand our network. 29 Table of Contents Significant declines in theatre attendance could reduce the attractiveness of cinema advertising The value of our advertising business could be adversely affected by a long-term multi-year decline in theatre attendance or even the perception by media buyers that our network attendance and geographic coverage were expected to decline significantly over the next several years. Factors that could reduce attendance at our network theatres include the following: • the shortening of the “release window” between the release of major motion pictures in the theatres and release to alternative methods for delivering movies to consumers, such as DVD or HD DVD, cable television, downloads via the Internet, video discs and cassettes, video on demand, satellite and pay-per-view services; • any reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income in general that reduces the demand for motion pictures or adversely affects the motion picture production industry; and • the success of first-run motion pictures, which depends upon the production and marketing efforts of the major studios and the attractiveness of the movies to patrons. The loss of any major content partner or advertising customer could significantly reduce our revenue We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our contracts with our content partners, cell phone PSA and NCM LLC’s founding members’ agreements to purchase on-screen advertising for their beverage concessionaires. NCM LLC’s or its predecessor company’s relationships with certain content partners date back as far as December 2002. None of these companies individually accounted for over 10% of our total revenue during the year ended December 30, 2010. However, the agreements with the content partners, cell phone PSA and beverage advertising with the founding members in aggregate accounted for approximately 27% of our total revenue during the year ended December 30, 2010. Because we derive a significant percentage of our total revenue from a relatively small number of large companies, the loss of any one or more of them as a customer could decrease our revenue and adversely affect our current and future operating results. We generate a high percentage of our revenue and OIBDA from advertising, and the reduction in spending by or loss of advertisers could have a serious adverse effect on our business We generated approximately 89% of our total revenue in the year ended December 30, 2010 from advertising sales. A substantial portion of our advertising inventory is covered by contracts with terms as short as one month. Advertisers will not continue to do business with us if they believe our advertising medium is ineffective or overly expensive. In addition, large advertisers generally have set advertising budgets, most of which are focused on traditional media platforms like television. Reductions in the size of advertisers’ budgets due to local or national economic trends or other factors could result in lower spending on cinema advertising in general or our advertising business in particular. If we are unable to remain competitive and provide value to our advertising clients, they may reduce their advertising purchases or stop placing advertisements with us, which would negatively affect our revenue and ability to generate new business from advertising clients. If we do not maintain our technological advantage, our business could fail to grow and revenue and operating margins could decline Failure to successfully or cost-effectively implement upgrades to our software systems to maintain our technological competitiveness could limit our ability to increase our revenue and more effectively leverage our digital platform. Any failure by us to upgrade our technology to remain current with technological changes, including digital cinema, that may be adopted by other advertising platforms could hurt our ability to compete with those companies. Under the terms of the ESAs with NCM LLC’s founding members, the founding members are required to provide technology that is consistent with that in place at the signing of the ESA. We may request that NCM LLC’s founding members upgrade the equipment or software installed in their theatres. We must negotiate with NCM LLC’s founding members as to the terms of such upgrade, including cost sharing terms, if 30 Table of Contents any. For instance during 2010 we entered into an amendment to the ESA to allow us to connect our digital network to the founding members new digital cinema projection systems so that we could display our advertising (including 3D) and Fathom events on their systems. As of February 15, 2011 we had approximately 2,800 screens within our digital network that were connected to digital cinema projection equipment and expect substantially all of the founding member screens to be deployed with digital cinema equipment over the next 24 to 36 months. If we are not able to come to an agreement on an upgrade request, we may elect to pay for the upgrades requested which could result in our incurring significant capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the failure or delay in implementation of such upgrades or problems with the integration of our systems and software with the digital cinema systems, could slow or prevent the growth of our business. Our business relies heavily on our technology systems, and any failures or disruptions may materially and adversely affect our operations The temporary or permanent loss of our computer equipment and software systems, through sabotage, operating malfunction, software virus, human error, natural disaster, power loss, terrorist attacks, or other catastrophic events, could disrupt our operations and cause a material adverse impact. These problems may arise in both internally developed systems and the systems of third-party service providers. If our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. Technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements. Our business and operations are experiencing rapid growth, and we may be unable to effectively manage or continue our growth of our network and advertising inventory We have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which has placed, and could continue to place, significant demands on our management and operational infrastructure. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our services could suffer which could negatively affect our brand and our relationships with our current advertising clients. Additionally, we may not be able to continue to expand our network and our advertising inventory which could negatively affect our ability to add new advertising clients and providers of content for our Fathom business. To effectively manage this growth and continue to expand our network and inventory, we will need to continue to improve our digital content system distribution software and our internal management systems, including our advertising inventory optimization, management and reporting systems. These enhancements and improvements will require allocation of financial and management resources. If the improvements are not implemented successfully in a timely manner or at all, our ability to manage our limited advertising inventory and continue our growth in the future will be impaired and we may have to make significant additional expenditures to address these issues. Our plans for developing additional revenue opportunities may not be implemented, may require substantial expenditures and may not be achieved In addition to our strategy to grow our advertising and Fathom Events divisions, we are also considering other potential opportunities for revenue growth, which we describe in “Business—Our Strategy—Expand our Internet/Mobile Platform”. The development of our internet and mobile advertising business is at an early stage, and may not deliver the benefits we have projected. In addition, we also have a minority interest in a company called RMG that operates out-of-home targeted advertising networks. Should these networks not continue to grow in importance to advertising clients and agencies, they may not provide a future growth engine for NCM as our cinema advertising business matures. Because of acquisitions by our founding members and changing contractual arrangements between us and our founding members and other theatre circuits, it is difficult to compare our business performance across financial periods and evaluate our prospects NCM LLC’s predecessor company, RCM, began operations in February 2002. NCM LLC was formed on March 29, 2005, as a joint venture that combined the operations of subsidiaries of AMC and Regal. Cinemark 31 Table of Contents joined as a founding member on July 15, 2005. Since 2006 through 2010, our founding members have made several acquisitions including Century, Loews, Consolidated Theatres and Kerasotes. We completed our IPO in February 2007 and entered into various restructuring transactions with our founding members at that time, including amending our ESAs. We have entered into new network affiliate agreements with Cobb Theatres, Galaxy Theatres, LLC, Storyteller Theatres Corporation, Starplex Cinemas, ShowBiz Cinemas, Picture Show Theatres, Metropolitan Theatres Corporation, LA Live Theatre, Great Escape Theatres, RC Theatres, and Rave Cinemas, LLC and may enter into more in the future. As a result, the size of our theatre network changes frequently, which may make it difficult to compare our financial performance across corresponding periods and evaluate our business. We also may encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies in rapidly evolving businesses. If we are unsuccessful in executing our business strategy, we may be unable to: • increase our revenue and expand our client base; • integrate into our network theatres and screens that are newly built or acquired by our founding members or network affiliates on a timely basis: • operate, support, expand, develop and improve our software and other systems; • continue to produce high operating income margins; and • respond to technological changes. We depend upon our senior management and our business may be adversely affected if we cannot retain them Our success depends upon the retention of our experienced senior management with specialized industry and technical knowledge and/or industry relationships. We might not be able to find qualified replacements for our senior management if their services were no longer available to us; accordingly, the loss of critical members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively pursue our business strategy and our relationships with advertisers and content partners. We do not have key-man life insurance covering any of our employees. Our business, services, or technology may infringe on intellectual property rights owned by others, which may interfere with our ability to provide services or expose us to increased liability or expense Patents, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights cover our business and our in-theatre, online, and mobile services, including the websites we operate at ncm.com, movienightout.com and FathomEvents.com and the features, functionality, content, and software we make available through those websites. We rely on our own intellectual property rights as well as intellectual property rights obtained from third parties to conduct our business and provide our in-theatre, online, and mobile services. We may discover that our business or the technology we use to provide our in-theatre, online, or mobile services infringes patent, copyright, or other intellectual property rights owned by others. In addition, our competitors or others may claim rights in patents, copyrights, or other intellectual property rights that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to provide our in-theatre, online, or mobile services either in the U.S. or in international markets. Further, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. The content we distribute through our in-theatre, online or mobile services may expose us to liability Our in-theatre, online, and mobile services facilitate the distribution of content. This content includes advertising-related content, as well as content regarding movies, television and other media, much of which is obtained from third parties. Our websites also include features enabling users to upload or add their own content to the websites and modify certain content on the websites. As a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement, or other claims based on the content that we distribute. We may not be adequately insured or indemnified to cover claims of these types or liability that may be imposed on us. 32 Table of Contents The personal information we collect and maintain through our online and mobile services may expose us to liability In order to take advantage of some of the online and mobile services we provide users are required to establish an account on one of our websites. As a result, we will collect and maintain personal information about those users. We also collect and maintain personal information about users who view certain advertising displayed through our online and mobile services. Our collection and use of information regarding users of our online and mobile services could result in legal liability. For example, the failure, or perceived failure, to comply with federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws or regulations or our posted privacy policies could result in actions against us by governmental entities or others. Changes in regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our online or mobile services may result in the need to alter our business practices or incur greater operating expenses A number of regulations, including those referenced below, may impact our business as a result of our online or mobile services. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, liability for posting, or linking to third-party websites that include, materials that infringe copyrights or other rights. Portions of the Communications Decency Act are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third-party content. The Child Online Protection Act and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. The costs of compliance with these regulations, and other regulations relating to our online and mobile services or other areas of our business, may be significant. The manner in which these and other regulations may be interpreted or enforced may subject us to potential liability, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Changes to these and other regulations may impose additional burdens on us or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results because of, for example, increased costs relating to legal compliance, defense against adverse claims or damages, or the reduction or elimination of features, functionality or content from our online or mobile services. Likewise, any failure on our part to comply with these and other regulations may subject us to additional liabilities. Our revenue and Adjusted OIBDA fluctuate from quarter to quarter and may be unpredictable, which could increase the volatility of our stock price Typically, our revenue and Adjusted OIBDA are lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year as advertising clients scale back their advertising budgets following the year-end holiday season, and our revenue is highest during the summer and the holiday season when theatre attendance is normally highest. However, a weak advertising market or the shift in spending of a major client from one quarter to another, the poor performance of films released in a given quarter or a disruption in the release schedule of films could affect results for the entire fiscal year and significantly affect quarter-to-quarter results. Because our results vary widely from quarter to quarter and may be unpredictable, our financial results for one quarter cannot necessarily be compared to another quarter and may not be indicative of our financial performance in subsequent quarters. These variations in our financial results could contribute to volatility in our stock price. The ESAs allow the founding members to engage in activities that might compete with certain elements of our business, which could reduce our revenue and growth potential The ESAs contain certain limited exceptions to our exclusive right to use the founding members’ theatres for our advertising business. The founding members have the right to enter into strategic cross-marketing relationships with third-party, unaffiliated businesses for the purpose of generating increased attendance or revenue (other than revenue from the sale of advertising) and, subject to certain limits, can use one minute on the LEN and certain types of lobby promotions, at no cost, for the purpose of promoting the products or services of those businesses while at the same time promoting the theatre circuit or the movie-going experience. Subject to certain limits, they can also purchase an additional minute of advertising on the LEN for these cross-marketing 33 Table of Contents promotions. The use of LEN or lobby promotions by NCM LLC’s founding members for these advertisements and programs could result in the founding members creating relationships with advertisers that could adversely affect our current LEN and lobby promotions advertising revenue and profitability as well as the potential we have to grow that advertising revenue in the future. The LEN and lobby promotions represented 5.3% of our total advertising revenue for the year ended December 30, 2010. The founding members will not have the right to use their movie screens (including the FirstLook program or otherwise) for promoting these cross-marketing relationships, and thus we will have the exclusive rights to advertise on the movie screens, except for limited advertising related to theatre operations. The founding members also have the right to install a second network of video monitors in the theatre lobbies in excess of those required to be installed by the founding members for the LEN. This additional lobby video network, which we refer to as the founders’ lobby network, is to be used by the founding members to promote products or services related to operating the theatres, such as concessions and loyalty programs. The presence of the founders’ lobby network within the lobby areas could reduce the effectiveness of our LEN, thereby reducing our current LEN advertising revenue and profitability and adversely affecting future revenue potential associated with that marketing platform. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure We are a holding company with no operations of our own, and we depend on distributions and payments under the NCM LLC operating and management services agreements from NCM LLC to meet our ongoing obligations and to pay cash dividends on our common stock We are a holding company with no operations of our own and have no independent ability to generate revenue. Consequently, our ability to obtain operating funds depends upon distributions from NCM LLC. The distribution of cash flows and other transfers of funds by NCM LLC to us are subject to statutory and contractual restrictions based upon NCM LLC’s financial performance, including NCM LLC’s compliance with the covenants in its senior secured credit facility and the NCM LLC operating agreement. The NCM LLC senior secured credit facility limits NCM LLC’s ability to distribute cash to its members, including us, based upon certain leverage tests, with exceptions for, among other things, payment of our income taxes and a management fee to NCM, Inc. pursuant to the terms of the management services agreement. We will be unable to pay dividends to our stockholders or pay other expenses outside the ordinary course of business if NCM LLC fails to comply with these covenants and is unable to distribute cash to us. Pursuant to the management services agreement between us and NCM LLC, NCM LLC makes payments to us to fund our day-to-day operating expenses, such as payroll. However, if NCM LLC cannot make the payments pursuant to the management services agreement, we may be unable to cover these expenses. As a member of NCM LLC, we incur income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of NCM LLC. We have structured the NCM LLC senior secured credit facility to allow NCM LLC to distribute cash to its members (including us and the founding members) in amounts sufficient to cover their tax liabilities and management fees, if any. To the extent we need funds to pay such taxes or for any other purpose, and NCM LLC is unable to provide such funds because of limitations in the NCM LLC senior secured credit facility or other restrictions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. NCM LLC’s substantial debt obligations could impair our financial condition or prevent us from achieving our business goals NCM LLC is party to a $725.0 million term loan that is part of a senior secured credit facility. The agreements governing NCM LLC’s debt obligations contain restrictive covenants that limit NCM LLC’s ability to take specified actions and prescribe minimum financial maintenance requirements that NCM LLC must meet. 34 Table of Contents Because NCM LLC is our only operating subsidiary, complying with these restrictions may prevent NCM LLC from taking actions that we believe would help us to grow our business. For example, NCM LLC may be unable to make acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures as a result of such covenants. Moreover, if NCM LLC violates those restrictive covenants or fails to meet the minimum financial requirements, it would be in default, which could, in turn, result in defaults under other obligations of NCM LLC or us. Any such defaults could materially impair our financial condition and liquidity. The senior secured credit facility also includes an $80 million revolving credit facility of which $14.0 million related to the revolving credit commitments of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (“Lehman”) was effectively converted to a term loan and the aggregate revolving credit commitments were reduced to $66.0 million. As of December 30, 2010, the amount outstanding under the revolving credit facility was $50.0 million. The amount outstanding under the revolving credit facility fluctuates based on our working capital needs. If NCM LLC is unable to meet its debt service obligations, it or we could be forced to restructure or refinance the obligations, seek additional equity financing or sell assets. We may be unable to restructure or refinance these obligations, obtain additional equity financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, NCM LLC’s indebtedness could have other negative consequences for us, including without limitation: • limiting NCM LLC’s ability to obtain financing in the future; • requiring much of NCM LLC’s cash flow to be dedicated to interest obligations and making it unavailable for other purposes; • limiting NCM LLC’s liquidity and operational flexibility in changing economic, business and competitive conditions which could require NCM LLC to consider deferring planned capital expenditures, reducing discretionary spending, selling assets, restructuring existing debt or deferring acquisitions or other strategic opportunities; and • making NCM LLC more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in general economic conditions. NCM LLC, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (“Lehman”) and Barclays Bank PLC (“Barclays”) entered into an agreement in March 2010 whereby Lehman resigned its agency function and restructured its outstanding $14.0 million revolving credit loan. NCM LLC and the remaining revolving credit lenders consented to the appointment of Barclays as successor administrative agent and swing line lender under the credit agreement. Additionally, the revolving credit commitments of Lehman were reduced to zero and the aggregate revolving credit commitments were reduced to $66.0 million. The $14.0 million outstanding principal of the revolving credit loans held by Lehman will not be repaid in connection with any future prepayments of revolving credit loans, but rather Lehman’s share of the revolving credit facility will be paid in full by NCM LLC, along with any accrued and unpaid fees and interest, on the revolving credit termination date, February 13, 2013. NCM LLC’s founding members or their affiliates may have interests that differ from those of our public stockholders and they may be able to influence our affairs So long as a founding member beneficially owns at least 5% of NCM LLC’s issued and outstanding common membership units, approval of at least 90% of the directors then in office (provided that if the board has less than ten directors, then the approval of at least 80% of the directors then in office) will be required before we may take any of the following actions or we, in our capacity as manager of NCM LLC, may authorize NCM LLC to take any of the following actions: • assign, transfer, sell or pledge all or a portion of the membership units of NCM LLC beneficially owned by NCM, Inc.; • acquire, dispose, lease or license assets with an aggregate value exceeding 20% of the fair market value of the business of NCM LLC operating as a going concern; 35 Table of Contents • merge, reorganize, recapitalize, reclassify, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or enter into a similar transaction; • incur any funded indebtedness or repay, before due, any funded indebtedness with a fixed term in an aggregate amount in excess of $15 million per year; • issue, grant or sell shares of NCM, Inc. common stock, preferred stock or rights with respect to common or preferred stock, or NCM LLC membership units or rights with respect to membership units, except under specified circumstances; • amend, modify, restate or repeal any provision of NCM, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation or bylaws or the NCM LLC operating agreement; • enter into, modify or terminate certain material contracts not in the ordinary course of business as defined under applicable securities laws; • except as specifically set forth in the NCM LLC operating agreement, declare, set aside or pay any redemption of, or dividends with respect to membership interests; • amend any material terms or provisions (as defined in the Nasdaq rules) of NCM, Inc.’s equity incentive plan or enter into any new equity incentive compensation plan; • make any change in the current business purpose of NCM, Inc. to serve solely as the manager of NCM LLC or any change in the current business purpose of NCM LLC to provide the services as set forth in the ESAs; and • approve any actions relating to NCM LLC that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse tax effect on the founding members. Pursuant to a director designation agreement, so long as a founding member owns at least 5% of NCM LLC’s issued and outstanding common membership units, such founding member will have the right to designate a total of two nominees to our ten-member board of directors who will be voted upon by our stockholders. One such designee by each founding member must meet the independence requirements of the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. If, at any time, any founding member owns less than 5% of NCM LLC’s then issued and outstanding common membership units, then such founding member shall cease to have any rights of designation. If any director designee to our board designated by NCM LLC’s founding members is not appointed to our board, nominated by us or elected by our stockholders, as applicable, then each of the founding members (so long as such founding member continues to own 5% of NCM LLC’s issued and outstanding common membership units) will be entitled to approve specified actions of NCM LLC. For purposes of calculating the 5% ownership threshold for the supermajority director approval rights and director designation agreement provisions discussed above, shares of our common stock held by a founding member and received upon redemption of NCM LLC common membership units will be counted toward the threshold. Common membership units issued to NCM, Inc. in connection with the redemption of common membership units by a founding member will be excluded, so long as such founding member continues to hold the common stock acquired through such redemption or such founding member has disposed of such shares of common stock to another founding member. Shares of our common stock otherwise acquired by the founding members will also be excluded, unless such shares of common stock were transferred by one founding member to another and were originally received by the transferring founding member upon redemption of NCM LLC common membership units. Under these circumstances, our corporate governance documents will allow NCM LLC’s founding members and their affiliates to exercise a greater degree of influence in the operation of our business and that of NCM LLC and the management of our affairs and those of NCM LLC than is typically available to stockholders of a 36 Table of Contents publicly-traded company. Even if NCM LLC’s founding members or their affiliates own a minority economic interest (but not less than 5%) in NCM LLC, they may be able to continue exerting such degree of influence over us and NCM LLC. Different interests among NCM LLC’s founding members or between NCM LLC’s founding members and us could prevent us from achieving our business goals For the foreseeable future, we expect that our board of directors will include directors and executive officers of NCM LLC’s founding members and other directors who may have commercial or other relationships with NCM LLC’s founding members. NCM LLC’s founding members compete with each other in the operation of their respective businesses and could have individual business interests that may conflict with those of the other founding members. Their differing interests could make it difficult for us to pursue strategic initiatives that require consensus among NCM LLC’s founding members. In addition, the structural relationship we have with NCM LLC’s founding members could create conflicts of interest among the founding members, or between the founding members and us, in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. There is not any formal dispute resolution procedure in place to resolve conflicts between us and a founding member or between founding members. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts between us and a founding member and, even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were negotiating with an unaffiliated party. The corporate opportunity provisions in our certificate of incorporation could enable the founding members to benefit from corporate opportunities that might otherwise be available to us Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to both NCM LLC’s founding members and us. It provides that if a corporate opportunity is offered to us, NCM LLC or one or more of the officers, directors or stockholders (both direct and indirect) of NCM, Inc. or a member of NCM LLC that relates to the provision of services to motion picture theatres, use of theatres for any purpose, sale of advertising and promotional services in and around theatres and any other business related to the motion picture theatre business (except services as provided in the ESAs as from time to time amended and except as may be offered to one of our officers in his capacity as an officer), no such person shall be liable to us or any of our stockholders (or any affiliate thereof) for breach of any fiduciary or other duty by reason of the fact that such person pursues or acquires such business opportunity, directs such business opportunity to another person or fails to present such business opportunity, or information regarding such business opportunity, to us. This provision applies even if the business opportunity is one that we might reasonably be deemed to have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and the NCM LLC operating agreement expressly provide that NCM LLC’s founding members may have other business interests and may engage in any other businesses not specifically prohibited by the terms of the certificate of incorporation, including the exclusivity provisions of the ESAs. The parent companies of the founding members are not bound by the ESAs and therefore could develop new media platforms that could compete for advertising dollars with our services. Further, we may also compete with the founding members or their affiliates in the area of employee recruiting and retention. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by the founding members to themselves or their other affiliates or we lose key personnel to them. The agreements between us and NCM LLC’s founding members were made in the context of an affiliated relationship and may contain different terms than comparable agreements with unaffiliated third parties The ESAs and the other contractual agreements that we have with NCM LLC’s founding members were negotiated in the context of an affiliated relationship in which representatives of NCM LLC’s founding members 37 Table of Contents and their affiliates comprised our entire board of directors. As a result, the financial provisions and the other terms of these agreements, such as covenants, contractual obligations on our part and on the part of NCM LLC’s founding members, and termination and default provisions may be less favorable to us than terms that we might have obtained in negotiations with unaffiliated third parties in similar circumstances. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover protections that may discourage or prevent strategic transactions, including a takeover of our company, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the NCM LLC operating agreement, provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), could delay or prevent a third party from entering into a strategic transaction with us, even if such a transaction would benefit our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • establish supermajority approval requirements by our directors before our board may take certain actions; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares, making a takeover more difficult and expensive; • establish a classified board of directors; • allow removal of directors only for cause; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and • provide that the founding members will be able to exercise a greater degree of influence over the operations of NCM LLC, which may discourage other nominations to our board of directors, if any director nominee designated by the founding members is not elected by our stockholders. These restrictions could keep us from pursuing relationships with strategic partners and from raising additional capital, which could impede our ability to expand our business and strengthen our competitive position. These restrictions could also limit stockholder value by impeding a sale of us or NCM LLC. Any future issuance of membership units by NCM LLC and subsequent redemption of such units for common stock could dilute the voting power of our existing common stockholders and adversely affect the market value of our common stock The Common Unit Adjustment Agreement and the ESAs provide that we will issue common membership units of NCM LLC to account for changes in the number of theatre screens NCM LLC’s founding members operate. Historically, each of the founding members has increased the number of screens it operates. If this trend continues, NCM LLC may issue additional common membership units to the founding members to reflect their increase in net screen count. Each common membership unit may be redeemed in exchange for, at our option, shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis or a cash payment equal to the market price of one share of our common stock. If a significant number of common membership units were issued to NCM LLC’s founding members, the founding members elected to redeem such units, and we elected to issue common stock rather than cash upon redemption, the voting power of our common stockholders could be diluted. Other than the maximum number of authorized shares of common stock in our certificate of incorporation, there is no limit on the number of shares of our common stock that we may issue upon redemption of a founding member’s common membership units in NCM LLC. During the third quarter of 2010, in connection with a public offering of NCM, Inc. common stock by AMC and Regal, AMC and Regal exercised the redemption right of an aggregate 10,955,471 common membership 38 Table of Contents units, whereby AMC and Regal surrendered 6,655,193 and 4,300,278 common membership units to NCM LLC for cancellation, respectively. NCM, Inc. contributed an aggregate 10,955,471 shares of its common stock to NCM LLC in exchange for a like number of newly issued common membership units. NCM LLC then distributed the shares of common stock to AMC and Regal to complete the redemptions. Such redemptions took place immediately prior to the closing of the underwritten public offering and the subsequent closing of the overallotment option; in each case the NCM, Inc. common stock was sold at a price to the public of $16.00 per share by AMC and Regal. NCM, Inc. did not receive any proceeds from the sale of its common stock by AMC and Regal. Our future issuance of preferred stock could dilute the voting power of our common stockholders and adversely affect the market value of our common stock The future issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting rights may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our other classes of voting stock, either by diluting the voting power of our other classes of voting stock if they vote together as a single class, or by giving the holders of any such preferred stock the right to block an action on which they have a separate class vote even if the action were approved by the holders of our other classes of voting stock. The future issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. For example, investors in the common stock may not wish to purchase common stock at a price above the conversion price of a series of convertible preferred stock because the holders of the preferred stock would effectively be entitled to purchase common stock at the lower conversion price causing economic dilution to the holders of common stock. If we or NCM LLC’s founding members are determined to be an investment company, we would become subject to burdensome regulatory requirements and our business activities could be restricted We do not believe that we are an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. As sole manager of NCM LLC, we control NCM LLC, and our interest in NCM LLC is not an “investment security” as that term is used in the Investment Company Act. If we were to stop participating in the management of NCM LLC, our interest in NCM LLC could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. Generally, a company is an “investment company” if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (excluding U.S. government securities and cash items). Our sole material asset is our equity interest in NCM LLC. A determination that such asset was an investment security could result in our being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act. As a result, we would become subject to registration and other burdensome requirements of the Investment Company Act. In addition, the requirements of the Investment Company Act could restrict our business activities, including our ability to issue securities. We and NCM LLC intend to conduct our operations so that we are not deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act. However, if anything were to occur that would cause us to be deemed an investment company, we would become subject to restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act. These restrictions, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operations. We also rely on representations of NCM LLC’s founding members that they are not investment companies under the Investment Company Act. If any founding member were deemed an investment company, the restrictions placed upon that founding member might inhibit its ability to fulfill its obligations under its ESA or restrict NCM LLC’s ability to borrow funds. 39 Table of Contents Our tax receivable agreement with the founding members is expected to reduce the amount of overall cash flow that would otherwise be available to us and will increase our potential exposure to the financial condition of the founding members Our initial public offering and related transactions have the effect of reducing the amounts NCM, Inc. would otherwise pay in the future to various tax authorities as a result of an increase in its proportionate share of tax basis in NCM LLC’s tangible and intangible assets. We have agreed in our tax receivable agreement with the founding members to pay to the founding members 90% of the amount by which NCM, Inc.’s tax payments to various tax authorities are reduced as a result of the increase in tax basis. Pursuant to the terms of the tax receivable agreement, we made payments of $14.0 million and $16.0 million to the founding members for our 2009 and 2008 taxable years, respectively and we estimate that in 2011 an additional $20.0 million and $1.6 million will be payable with respect to the 2010 and 2009 taxable years, respectively. After paying these reduced amounts to tax authorities, if it is determined as a result of an income tax audit or examination that any amount of NCM, Inc.’s claimed tax benefits should not have been available, NCM, Inc. may be required to pay additional taxes and possibly penalties and interest to one or more tax authorities. If this were to occur, and if one or more of the founding members was insolvent or bankrupt or otherwise unable to make payment under its indemnification obligation under the tax receivable agreement, then NCM, Inc.’s financial condition could be materially impaired. The substantial number of shares that are eligible for sale could cause the market price for our common stock to decline or make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price of our common stock from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales will occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or make future offerings of our equity securities more difficult. If we are unable to sell equity securities at times and prices that we deem appropriate, we may be unable to fund growth. The 53,549,477 shares of common stock outstanding at December 30, 2010 are freely tradable, except for 223,433 shares held by our affiliates. In addition, the founding members may receive up to 57,202,715 shares of common stock, which initially will be unregistered, upon redemption of their outstanding common membership units of NCM LLC. These shares of common stock will constitute “restricted securities” under the Securities Act. Provided the holders comply with the holding periods and other conditions prescribed in Rule 144 under the Securities Act, all but 223,433 of these unregistered shares of common stock cease to be restricted securities and become freely tradable. Additionally, 915,584 shares of non-vested restricted stock are outstanding and 3,876,224 shares of our common stock will be issuable upon exercise of stock options that vest through 2013. As of December 30, 2010, 1,030,120 stock options have vested and are exercisable. Once the options and restricted stock become vested and/or exercisable, as applicable, to the extent they are not held by one of our affiliates, the shares acquired upon vesting or exercise are freely tradable. Our stock price may be volatile Before our initial public offering in February 2007, there was no public market for our common stock, and an active trading market for our common stock may not continue. The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations over the last several months as investment companies have been forced to sell to pay-off debt. These broad market fluctuations or actions of individual holders of our stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our stock price may fluctuate or decline due to a variety of factors, including: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; 40 Table of Contents • changes in the market valuations of other companies; • announcements relating to actions of other media companies, strategic relationships, acquisitions or industry consolidation; • terrorist acts or wars; and • general economic, market and political conditions not related to our business. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. The identification of a material weakness in the future could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our common stock. We may not be able to timely remediate any material weaknesses that may be identified in future periods or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. Likewise, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 