Item 1A. Risk Factors Statements in this annual report on Form 10-K that are not strictly historical in nature and are forward-looking statements. These statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about: the timing of the commencement, enrollment, and completion of our clinical trials for our product candidates; the progress or success of our product development programs; the status of regulatory approvals for our product candidates; the timing of product launches; our ability to protect our intellectual property and operate our business without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others; and our estimates for future performance, anticipated operating losses, future revenues, capital requirements, and our needs for additional financing. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “potential,” “predicts,” “projects,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “goal,” or other variations of these terms (including their use in the negative) or by discussions of strategies, plans or intentions. These statements are only predictions based on current information and expectations and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The under lying information and expectations are likely to change over time. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Associated With Our Business Our business is difficult to evaluate because we have no operating history. As we have no operating history or revenue and only minimal assets following the liquidation of our Trust Account, there is a risk that we will be unable to continue as a going concern and consummate a business combination transaction. We have had no recent operating history nor any revenues or earnings from operations since inception. After the distribution of the Trust Account, we will have no significant assets or financial resources. We will, in all likelihood, sustain operating expenses without corresponding revenues, at least until the consummation of a business combination transaction. We cannot assure you that we can identify a suitable business opportunity and consummate a business combination transaction and, therefore, our net operating losses may increase significantly. Our business will have no revenues unless and until we execute a business combination transaction with an operating company or business. We are a development stage shell company and have had no revenues from operations. We may not realize any revenues unless and until we successfully execute a business combination transaction with an operating company or business. 7 There is competition for those private companies suitable for a business combination transaction of the type contemplated by management. We are in a highly competitive market for a small number of business opportunities which could reduce the likelihood of consummating a successful business combination. We are and will continue to be an insignificant participant in the business of seeking business combination transactions with small private and public entities. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including small public companies and venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies that may be desirable target candidates for us. Nearly all these entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than we do; consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. These competitive factors may reduce the likelihood of our identifying and consummating a successful business combination transaction. Because a majority of our management's prior business experience has been limited to segments of the technology industry, they may lack the necessary experience to consummate an acquisition with a business in other segments or an alternative industry. A significant portion of our management’s prior business experience has been limited to certain segments of the technology industry, notably software, telecommunication, media services, IT services, Internet and consumer products. If we locate an attractive business combination unrelated to these segments of the technology industry, our management may not have the necessary experience to adequately assess the merits or risks of the industries or segments in which the business operates. We have no existing agreement for a business combination or other transaction. We have no arrangement, agreement or understanding with respect to engaging in a business combination transaction with a private or public entity. No assurances can be given that we will successfully identify and evaluate suitable business opportunities or that we will conclude a business combination transaction. Management has not identified any particular industry or specific business within an industry for evaluation. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to negotiate a business combination transaction on favorable terms, and there is consequently a risk that funds allocated to the purchase of our shares will not be invested in a company with active business operations. The time and cost of preparing the target to prepare financial statements necessary to consummate a business combination with us may preclude us from entering into a business combination transaction with the most attractive target companies. Target companies that fail to comply with SEC reporting requirements may delay or preclude a business combination transaction. Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act require reporting companies to provide certain information about significant acquisitions, including certified financial statements for the acquired company, covering one, two, or three years, depending on the relative size of the acquisition. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target entities to prepare such statements may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of a business combination transaction. Otherwise suitable prospects that do not have or are unable to obtain the required audited statements may be inappropriate for a business combination transaction so long as the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act are applicable. Any potential business combination transaction with a foreign company may subject us to additional risks. If we enter into a business combination transaction with a foreign concern, we will be subject to risks inherent in business operations outside of the United States. These risks include, for example, currency fluctuations, regulatory problems, punitive tariffs, unstable local tax policies, trade embargoes, risks related to shipment of raw materials and finished goods across national borders and cultural and language differences. Foreign economies may differ favorably or unfavorably from the United States economy in growth of gross national product, rate of inflation, market development, rate of savings, and capital investment, resource self-sufficiency and balance of payments positions, and in other respects. 8 Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. We do not intend to comply with those procedures in the liquidation of the Trust Account. Because we will not be complying with Section 280, we will seek stockholder approval to comply with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, requiring us to adopt a plan of dissolution that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. However, because we are a blank check company, the claims that could be made against us are significantly limited and the likelihood that any claim that would result in any liability extending to the trust is minimal. However, because we will not be complying with Section 280, our public stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any such liability of our stockholders will likely extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our public stockholders amounts owed to them by us. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, we may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price thereafter at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. The foregoing does not apply to the 1,500,000 insider warrants purchased by certain of our officers and directors prior to our IPO, as such warrants are not subject to redemption while held by the initial holder or any permitted transferee of such initial holder. 9 Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise our warrants. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrant only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities law of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the warrants following completion of our IPO to the extent required by federal securities law, and we intend to comply with such undertaking, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. In addition, we have agreed to use our reasonable efforts to register the shares underlying the warrants under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the exercising warrant holders, to the extent an exemption is not available. The value of the warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Because the warrants sold in the private placement were originally issued pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements under the federal securities laws, holders of such warrants will be able to exercise their warrants even if, at the time of exercise, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants is not current. As a result, the holders of the warrants purchased in the private placement will not have any restrictions with respect to the exercise of their warrants. As described above, the holders of the warrants purchased in our IPO will not be able to exercise them unless we have a current registration statement covering the shares issuable upon their exercise. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete an acquisition, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 20,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. As of December 31, 2008, there were 11,875,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the underwriters’ unit purchase option) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. In the event our stockholders approve our proposal to continue our existence after the distribution of our trust account and the related proposals presented at the stockholders’ meeting, there would be 11,890,625 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the underwriters’ unit purchase option) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitments as of December 31, 2008 to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete an acquisition. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 10 Additionally, if we finance the purchase of assets or operations through the issuance of debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an acquisition were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. We may have insufficient resources to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of consummating an acquisition. Following the distribution of the trust account and assuming our stockholders approve our continued existence, we will need to obtain additional financing to fund our operating expenses. If we do not have sufficient funds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our management or the existing stockholders or from third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing and our existing stockholders and management are not obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and cannot find additional financing, we may be forced to dissolve and liquidate as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation prior to consummating a business combination. Our ability to effect a business combination and to execute any potential business plan afterwards will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following an acquisition, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Although we expect most of our management and other key personnel to remain associated with us following an acquisition, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate terms with the combined company as part of any such combination. If we acquired a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a business combination, it may be less likely that management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment or consulting agreement or other arrangement. The determination to remain as officers of the resulting business will be made prior to the completion of the transaction and will depend upon the appropriateness or necessity of current management to remain. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. If management negotiates to be retained post-business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. 11 Other than their relationship with us, none of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company which could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination. Other than their relationship with us, none of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company. Accordingly, you may not have sufficient information with which to evaluate the ability of our management team to identify and complete a business combination using the proceeds of our IPO and the private placement. Our management’s limited experience in operating a blank check company could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination and force us to dissolve and liquidate the trust account to our public stockholders as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. After we distribute the Trust Account, we will have net tangible assets of less than $5,000,000 and, if our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. 12 If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. If our stockholders approve our continued existence, we will be required to seek additional financing to fund our operations. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our officers and directors currently own shares of our common stock and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our officers and directors collectively own 20% of our issued and outstanding common stock. In the event our stockholders approve our continued existence following the distribution of the trust account and the related proposals presented at our stockholders’ meeting, our officers and directors will collectively own 90% of our issued and outstanding common stock. This ownership interest, together with any other acquisitions of our shares of common stock (or warrants which are subsequently exercised), could allow our officers or directors to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. The interests of our officers or directors and your interests may not always align and taking actions which require approval of a majority of our stockholders, such as selling our company, may be more difficult to accomplish. If our existing stockholders (including those officers and directors who have purchased warrants in the private placement) exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our existing stockholders, including our officers and directors who have purchased warrants in the private placement, are entitled to require us to register the resale of such warrants as well as their shares of common stock at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow. If such existing stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock (including those 1,500,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants included as part of the insider warrants), then there will be an additional 2,125,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market and we will bear the costs of registering such securities. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. 13 Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which limits the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, a FINRA-sponsored and operated inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not included in the Nasdaq Stock Market. Quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board limits the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. Lack of liquidity limits the price at which you may be able to sell our securities or your ability to sell our securities at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 