Item 1A. Risk Factors There are statements in this Annual Report that are not strictly historical in nature and are forward-looking statements. These statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about the timing of the commencement, enrollment, and completion of our clinical trials for our product candidates; the progress or success of our product development programs; the status of regulatory approvals for our product candidates; the timing of product launches; our ability to protect our intellectual property, if any and operate our business without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others; and our estimates for future performance, anticipated operating losses, future revenues, capital requirements, and our needs for additional financing. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “potential,” “predicts,” “projects,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “goal,” or other variations of these terms (including their use in the negative) or by discussions of strategies, plans or intentions. These statements are only predictions based on current information and expectations and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The underlying information and expectations are likely to change over time. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: 5 Risks Associated With Our Business Our business is difficult to evaluate because we have no operating history. As we have no operating history or revenue and only minimal assets following the liquidation of our Trust Account, there is a risk that we will be unable to continue as a going concern and consummate a business combination. We have had no recent operating history nor any revenues or earnings from operations since inception. Following the distribution of the Trust Account, we have had no significant assets or financial resources. We will, in all likelihood, sustain operating expenses without corresponding revenues, at least until the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you that we can identify a suitable business opportunity and consummate a business combination and, therefore, our net operating losses may increase significantly. The report of our independent registered public accountants on our financial statements includes an explanatory paragraph stating that our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on the consummation of the business combination or raising substantial additional funds. Our business will have no revenues unless and until we execute a business combination with an operating company or business at the earliest. We are a development stage shell company and have had no revenues from operations. We may not realize any revenues unless and until we successfully execute a business combination with an operating company or business at the earliest. There is competition for those private companies suitable for a business combination of the type contemplated by management. We are in a highly competitive market for a small number of business opportunities which could reduce the likelihood of consummating a successful business combination. We are and will continue to be an insignificant participant in the business of seeking business combinations with small private and public entities. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including small public companies and venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies that may be desirable target candidates for us. Nearly all these entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than we do; consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. These competitive factors may reduce the likelihood of our identifying and consummating a successful business combination. There are relatively low barriers to becoming a blank check company or shell company, thereby increasing the competitive market for a small number of business opportunities. There are relatively low barriers to becoming a blank check company or shell company. A newly incorporated company with a single stockholder and sole officer and director may become a blank check company or shell company by voluntarily subjecting itself to the SEC reporting requirements by filing and seeking effectiveness of a Form 10 with the SEC, thereby registering its common stock pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act. Assuming no comments to the Form 10 have been received from the SEC, the registration statement is automatically deemed effective 60 days after filing the Form 10 with the SEC. The relative ease and low cost with which a company can become a blank check or shell company can increase the already highly competitive market for a limited number of private businesses that seek to consummate a business combination with a public company. Because a majority of our management's prior business experience has been limited to segments of the technology industry, they may lack the necessary experience to consummate an acquisition with a business in other segments or an alternative industry. A significant portion of our management’s prior business experience has been limited to certain segments of the technology industry, notably software, telecommunication, media services, IT services, Internet and consumer products. If we locate an attractive business combination unrelated to these segments of the technology industry, our management may not have the necessary experience to adequately assess the merits or risks of the industries or segments in which the business operates. 6 We have no existing agreement for a business combination or other transaction. We have no arrangement, agreement or understanding with respect to engaging in a business combination with a private or public entity. No assurances can be given that we will successfully identify and evaluate suitable business opportunities or that we will conclude a business combination. Management has not identified any particular industry or specific business within an industry for evaluation. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to negotiate a business combination on favorable terms, and there is consequently a risk that funds allocated to the purchase of our shares will not be invested in a company with active business operations. The time and cost of preparing the target to prepare financial statements necessary to consummate a business combination with us may preclude us from entering into a business combination with the most attractive target companies. Target companies that fail to comply with SEC reporting requirements may delay or preclude a business combination. Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act require reporting companies to provide certain information about significant acquisitions, including certified financial statements for the acquired company, covering one, two, or three years, depending on the relative size of the acquisition. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target entities to prepare such statements may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of a business combination. Otherwise suitable prospects that do not have or are unable to obtain the required audited statements may be inappropriate for a business combination so long as the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act are applicable. Any potential business combination with a foreign company may subject us to additional risks. If we enter into a business combination with a foreign concern, we will be subject to risks inherent in business operations outside of the United States. These risks include, for example, currency fluctuations, regulatory problems, punitive tariffs, unstable local tax policies, trade embargoes, risks related to shipment of raw materials and finished goods across national borders and cultural and language differences. Foreign economies may differ favorably or unfavorably from the United States economy in growth of gross national product, rate of inflation, market development, rate of savings, and capital investment, resource self-sufficiency and balance of payments positions, and in other respects. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in the distribution of the Trust Account. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. We did not comply with those procedures in the liquidation and distribution of the Trust Account. Because we did not comply with Section 280, we obtained stockholder approval to comply with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, requiring us to adopt a plan of dissolution that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Because we are a blank check company, the claims that could be made against us are significantly limited and the likelihood that any claim that would result in any liability extending to the trust is minimal. However, because we did not comply with Section 280, our public stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in the Trust Account liquidation and any such liability of our stockholders will likely extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our public stockholders amounts owed to them by us. 7 We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete an acquisition, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 15,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, 5,000,000 shares of Class A Stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. As of December 31, 2011, there were 14,640,598 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance, 1,875,000 shares of Class A Stock and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock, Class A Stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: ·may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; ·will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and ·may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Additionally, if we finance the purchase of assets or operations through the issuance of debt securities, it could result in: ·default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an acquisition were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; ·acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; ·our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and ·our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. We may have insufficient resources to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of consummating an acquisition. Following the distribution of the Trust Account, we are in need of additional financing to fund our operating expenses. If we do not have sufficient funds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our management or the existing stockholders or from third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing and our existing stockholders and management are not obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and cannot find additional financing, we may be forced to dissolve and liquidate prior to consummating a business combination. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when and if needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us prior to, in connection with or after a business combination. 8 Our ability to effect a business combination and to execute any potential business plan afterwards will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following an acquisition, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Although we expect most of our management and other key personnel to remain associated with us following an acquisition, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate terms with the combined company as part of any such combination. If we acquired a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a business combination, it may be less likely that management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment or consulting agreement or other arrangement. The determination to remain as officers of the resulting business will be made prior to the completion of the transaction and will depend upon the appropriateness or necessity of current management to remain. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. If management negotiates to be retained post-business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. An acquisition of an operating company may not require the approval of our stockholders, so you may not be entitled to vote on such a business combination. In the event the Company enters into a definitive agreement to acquire an operating company, the acquisition may not require stockholder approval, even if it constitutes a change in control of the Company, provided the Company’s common stock is not then listed on a national exchange and the acquisition is structured so as not to require a stockholder vote under the Delaware code. Accordingly, stockholders may not be entitled to vote on any future acquisition by, or of, the Company. Other than their relationship with us, none of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company which could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination. Other than their relationship with us, none of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company. Accordingly, you may not have sufficient information with which to evaluate the ability of our management team to identify and complete a business combination. Our management’s limited experience in operating a blank check company could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination and force us to dissolve and liquidate. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. 9 Because our common stock is considered a penny stock and is subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. After the distribution of the Trust Account, our net tangible assets were less than $5,000,000 and our common stock has had a market price per share of less than $5.00, thus transactions in our common stock were and continue to be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: ·make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; ·receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; ·provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and ·obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. Broker-dealers in our common stock may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Our officers and directors currently own shares of our Class A Stock and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our officers and directors collectively hold approximately 80% of our voting power by virtue of their ownership of Class A Stock. This ownership interest, together with any other acquisitions of our shares of common stock (or warrants which are subsequently exercised), could allow our officers or directors to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. The interests of our officers or directors and your interests may not always align and taking actions which require approval of a majority of our stockholders, such as selling our company, may be more difficult to accomplish. If our existing stockholders (including those officers and directors who have purchased warrants in the private placement) exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our existing stockholders, including our officers and directors who have purchased warrants in the private placement, are entitled to require us to register the resale of such warrants as well as their shares of common stock at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow. If such existing stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock (including those 1,500,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants included as part of the insider warrants), then there will be an additional 2,125,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market and we will bear the costs of registering such securities. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. There has been a very limited public trading market for our securities, and the market for our securities may continue to be limited and may be sporadic and highly volatile. Prior to May 19, 2009, there was a limited public market for our common stock, which was quoted on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). Following the liquidation of our Trust Account, there has not been any public trading in the common stock. We cannot assure you that an active market for our shares will be established or maintained in the future. If we are unable to establish a public market for our common stock, holders will have no or limited liquidity. Holders of our common stock may have to bear a complete loss of the value of their investment in us. 10 If we are able to establish a public market, the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of our common stock to decline. Securities markets experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic conditions, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Many factors beyond our control may significantly affect the market price of our shares. These factors include: · price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets; · changes in our earnings or variations in operating results; · any shortfall in revenue or increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; · changes in regulatory policies or law; · operating performance of companies comparable to us; and · general economic trends and other external factors. Even if an active market for our common stock is established, stockholders may have to sell their shares at prices substantially lower than the price they paid for the shares or might otherwise receive than if an active public market existed. There is doubt about our ability to continue our activities as a going concern. We are a development stage company with no operating history, and our business plan is to consummate a business combination. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent upon developing or acquiring profitable operations. Due to the uncertainty of our ability to meet our current operating expenses and the capital expenses noted herein, there is doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements contain additional note disclosures describing the status of the company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 