Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks related to our business We are a newly-incorporated Maryland corporation with no operating history. We were incorporated in March 2007 and commenced our operations that same month. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we may not achieve our investment objectives and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. We may not be able to replicate GSC Group’s historical performance. Our primary focus in making investments differs from those of other private funds that are or have been managed by GSC Group’s investment professionals. Further, our investors are not acquiring an interest in other GSC Group funds. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will replicate GSC Group’s historical performance, and we caution you that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by other GSC Group funds. We may compete with investment vehicles of GSC Group for access to GSC Group. Our investment adviser and its affiliates have sponsored and currently manage other investment vehicles with an investment focus that overlaps with our focus, and may in the future sponsor or manage additional investment vehicles with an overlapping focus to ours, which, in each case, could result in us competing for access to the benefits that we expect our relationship with GSC Group to provide to us. We are dependent upon our investment adviser’s key personnel for our future success and upon their access to GSC Group’s investment professionals. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of GSC Group’s investment professionals and the information and deal flow generated by them in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. The departure of a significant number of the investment professionals of GSC Group, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. In addition, we cannot assure you that our investment adviser will remain our investment adviser or that we will continue to have access to GSC Group’s investment professionals or its information and deal flow. Our financial condition and results of operation depends on our ability to manage future growth effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on our ability to acquire suitable investments and monitor and administer those investments, which depends, in turn, on our investment adviser’s ability to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. 21 Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our investment adviser’s structuring of the investment process and its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient service to us. Our executive officers and the employees of our investment adviser have substantial responsibilities in connection with their roles at GSC Group and with the other GSC Group investment vehicles as well as responsibilities under the investment advisory and management agreement. They may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time, which will increase as the number of investments grow, may distract them or slow the rate of investment. In order to grow, our investment adviser may need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. However, we cannot assure you that any such employees will contribute to the work of the investment adviser. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our ability to grow will depend on our ability to raise capital. We will need to periodically access the capital markets to raise cash to fund new investments. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. An inability to successfully access the capital markets could limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy and could decrease our earnings, if any. We employ leverage. We currently use our Facilities to leverage our portfolio and we expect in the future to borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks and other lenders and may securitize certain of our portfolio investments. With certain limited exceptions, as a BDC we are only allowed to borrow amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least 200% after such borrowing. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our investment adviser’s and our board of directors’ assessment of market conditions and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. There is no assurance that a leveraging strategy will be successful. Leverage involves risks and special considerations for stockholders, including: • A likelihood of greater volatility in the net asset value and market price of our common stock. • Diminished operating flexibility as a result of asset coverage or investment portfolio composition requirements that are more stringent than those imposed by the 1940 Act. In addition, our financing subsidiaries rely on Rule 3a-7 under the 1940 Act, which prohibits us from, among other things, directing either of our financing subsidiaries to acquire, or dispose of investments for the primary purpose of recognizing gains or decreasing losses resulting from market value changes. • The possibility that investments will have to be liquidated at less than full value or at inopportune times to comply with debt covenants. • Increased operating expenses due to the cost of leverage, including issuance and servicing costs. • Subordination to Lenders’ superior claims on our assets as a result of which lenders will be able to receive proceeds available in the case of our liquidation before any proceeds are distributed to our shareholders. 22 Any requirement that we sell assets at a loss to redeem or pay interest or dividends on any leverage or for other reasons would reduce our net asset value and also make it difficult for the net asset value to recover. Our investment adviser and our board of directors in their best judgment nevertheless may determine to use leverage if they expect that the benefits to our stockholders of maintaining the leveraged position will outweigh the risks. Our investment adviser’s base compensation may cause it to increase our leverage contrary to our interest. We pay the investment adviser a quarterly base management fee based on the value of our total assets (including any assets acquired with leverage). Accordingly, the investment adviser has an economic incentive to increase our leverage. Our board of directors monitors the conflicts presented by this compensation structure by approving the amount of leverage that we incur. If our leverage is increased, we will be exposed to increased risk of loss, bear the increase cost of issuing and servicing such senior indebtedness, and will be subject to any additional covenant restrictions imposed on us in an indenture or other instrument or by the applicable lender. Our investment adviser’s incentive compensation may cause it to pursue a high risk investment strategy. The incentive fee payable to the investment adviser may create an incentive for the investment adviser to make investments that are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable to the investment adviser is determined, which is calculated as a percentage of the return on net assets, may encourage the investment adviser to use leverage to increase the return to the Company’s investments. If the investment adviser acquires poorly-performing assets with such leverage, the loss to holders of the shares could be substantial. Moreover, if our leverage is increased, we will be exposed to increased risk of loss, bear the increased cost of issuing and servicing such senior indebtedness, and will be subject to any additional covenant restrictions imposed on us in an indenture or other instrument or by the applicable lender. Our board of directors will monitor the conflicts presented by this compensation structure by approving the amount of leverage that we may incur. In addition, the investment adviser receives the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike the portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, the investment adviser may have a tendency to invest more in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. General interest rate fluctuations and changes in credit spreads on floating rate loans may have a substantial negative impact on our investments and investment opportunities and, accordingly, may have a material adverse effect on investment objectives and our rate of return on invested capital. In addition, an increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. Decreases in credit spreads on debt that pays a floating rate of return would have an impact on the income generation of our floating rate assets. Trading prices for debt that pays a fixed rate of return tend to fall as interest rates rise. Trading prices tend to fluctuate more for fixed-rate securities that have longer maturities. Although we have no policy governing the maturities of our investments, under current market conditions we expect that we will invest in a portfolio of debt generally having maturities of up to ten years. This means that we will be 23 subject to greater risk (other things being equal) than an entity investing solely in shorter-term securities. A decline in the prices of the debt we own could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Many of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors. As a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. We expect that, over time, a large percentage of our portfolio will be comprised of investments that are not publicly traded. The fair value of investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We value these investments quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors. However, we may be required to value our investments more frequently as determined in good faith by our board of directors to the extent necessary to reflect significant events affecting their value. Where appropriate, our board of directors may utilize the services of an independent valuation firm to aid it in determining fair value. The types of factors that may be considered in valuing our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private investments and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the sale of our investments. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rate payable on the debt investments we make, the default rate on such investments, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with our investment adviser and/or GSC Group, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. Subject to the restrictions of the 1940 Act, we may co-invest in investments of portfolio companies on a concurrent basis with other investment vehicles managed by GSC Group. Similarly a GSC Group managed investment vehicle may, in certain circumstances, invest in securities issued by a company in which we have made, or are making, an investment. Although certain such investments may present conflicts of interest, we nonetheless may pursue and consummate such transactions. These conflicts may include: Co-Investment. We are prohibited from co-investing with other investment vehicles managed now or in the future by GSC Group in certain investments of portfolio companies in instances where GSC Group negotiates terms other than price. In instances where we co-invest with a GSC Group managed investment vehicle, while we will invest on the same terms and neither we nor the GSC Group managed investment vehicle may negotiate terms of the transaction other than price, conflicts of interest may arise. For example, if an investee company in which both we and a GSC Group managed investment vehicle have invested becomes distressed, and if 24 the size of our relative investments vary significantly, the decisions relating to actions to be taken could raise conflicts of interest. Conflicts in Different Parts of Capital Structure. If a portfolio company in which we and another GSC Group managed investment vehicle hold different classes of securities encounters financial problems, decisions over the terms of any workout will raise conflicts of interests. For example, a debt holder may be better served by a liquidation of the issuer in which it will be paid in full, whereas an equity holder might prefer a reorganization that could create value for the equity holder. Potential Conflicting Positions. Given our investment objectives and the investment objectives of other GSC Group managed investment vehicles, it is possible that we may hold a position that is contrary to a position held by another GSC Group managed investment vehicle. For example, we could hold a longer term investment in a certain portfolio company and at the same time another GSC Group managed investment vehicle could hold a short term position in the same company. The GSC Group makes each investment decision separately based upon the investment objective of each of its clients. Shared Legal Counsel. We and a GSC Group managed investment vehicle generally engage common legal counsel in transactions in which both are participating. Although separate counsel may be engaged, the time and cost savings and other efficiencies and advantages of using common counsel will generally outweigh the disadvantages. In the event of a significant dispute or divergence of interests, typically in a work-out or other distressed situation, separate representation may become desirable, and in litigation and other circumstances, separate representation may be necessary. Allocation of Opportunities. In particular, our investment adviser provides investment management, investment advice or other services in relation to a number of investment vehicles of GSC Group, which focus on corporate credit, distressed debt, mezzanine investments and structured finance products and have investment objectives that are similar to or overlap with ours. Investment opportunities that may be of interest to us may also be of interest to GSC Group’s other investment vehicles, and GSC Group may buy or sell securities for us which differ from securities which they may cause to be bought or sold for GSC Group’s other investment vehicles. GSC Group may have conflicting interests, including a larger capital commitment to, or larger fees from, another investment vehicle of GSC Group, in determining which investment vehicle should pursue the investment opportunity. Material Nonpublic Information. GSC Group or its employees, officers, principals or affiliates may come into possession of material nonpublic information in connection with business activities unrelated to our operations. The possession of such information may limit our ability to buy or sell securities or otherwise participate in an investment opportunity or to take other action it might consider in our best interest. Cross-Trading. Subject to applicable law, we may engage in transactions directly with other investment vehicles managed by GSC Group, including the purchase or sale of all or a portion of a portfolio investment. Cross-trades can save us brokerage commissions and, in certain cases, related transaction costs. Cross-trades between affiliates may create conflicts of interest with respect to certain terms, including price, of the transaction. The 1940 Act imposes substantial restrictions on cross-trades between us and investment vehicles managed by GSC Group. As a result, our board of directors has adopted cross-trading procedures designed to ensure compliance with the requirements of the 1940 Act and will regularly review the terms of any cross-trades. 25 Our investment adviser’s liability is limited under the investment advisory and management agreement and we will indemnify our investment adviser against certain liabilities, which may lead our investment adviser to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Our investment adviser has not assumed any responsibility to us other than to render the services described in the investment advisory and management agreement. Pursuant to the investment advisory and management agreement, our investment adviser and its general partner, officers and employees are not liable to us for their acts, under the investment advisory and management agreement, absent willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties. We have agreed to indemnify, defend and protect our investment adviser and its general partner, officers and employees with respect to all damages, liabilities, costs and expenses resulting from acts of our investment adviser not arising out of willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties under the investment advisory and management agreement. These protections may lead our investment adviser to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. We may be obligated to pay our investment adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a net loss, regardless of the market value of our common stock. Our investment adviser is entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our investment income for that quarter (before deducting incentive compensation, net operating losses and certain other items) above a threshold return for that quarter. Our pre-incentive fee net investment income, for incentive compensation purposes, excludes realized and unrealized capital losses that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our investment adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our Portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter. Under the investment advisory and management agreement, we will defer cash payment of any incentive fee otherwise earned by our investment adviser if, during the most recent four full quarterly periods ending on or prior to the date such payment is to be made, the sum of (a) our aggregate distributions to our stockholders and (b) our change in net assets (defined as total assets less liabilities) is less than 7.5% of our net assets at the beginning of such period. These calculations will be appropriately pro rated during the first three quarters of this fiscal year and will be adjusted for any share issuances or repurchases. Furthermore, the incentive fee that we pay is not tied to the market value of our common stock. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that is structured to provide accrued interest, it is possible that accrued interest previously included in the calculation of the incentive fee will become uncollectible. The investment adviser is not under any obligation to reimburse us for any part of the incentive fee it received that was based on accrued income that we never received as a result of a default by an entity on the obligation that resulted in the accrual of such income. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation thereof, and any failure by us to comply with laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Any change in these laws or regulations, or their interpretation, or any failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. 26 As discussed below, there is a risk that certain investments that we intend to treat as qualifying assets will be determined to not be eligible for such treatment. Any such determination would have a material adverse effect on our business. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make in private middle market companies. We compete with other BDCs, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, insurance companies, high-yield investors, hedge funds, and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. Several other BDCs have recently raised, or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for investment opportunities. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments that could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act will impose on us as a BDC. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and make investments that meet our investment objectives. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we offer and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. As a result of operating in such a competitive environment, we may make investments that are on better terms to our portfolio companies than we originally anticipated, which may impact our return on these investments. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. However, we intend to comply with the diversification requirements imposed by the Code for qualification as a RIC. Risks related to our operation as a BDC Our investment adviser has no experience managing a BDC. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. For example, BDCs are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of private U.S. operating companies or public U.S. companies whose securities are not listed on a national securities exchange registered under the Exchange Act (i.e., New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange and The NASDAQ Global Market), cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Our investment 27 adviser does not have any experience managing a BDC. The lack of experience of our investment adviser in managing a portfolio of assets under such constraints may hinder its ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objectives. A failure on our part to maintain our qualification as a BDC would significantly reduce our operating flexibility. If we fail to qualify as a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we fail to qualify as a RIC. We will seek to qualify as a RIC under the Code, which requires us to qualify continuously as a BDC and meet certain source of income, distribution and asset diversification requirements. The source of income requirement is satisfied if we derive at least 90% of our annual gross income from interest, dividends, payments with respect to certain securities loans, gains from the sale or other disposition of securities or options thereon or foreign currencies, or other income derived with respect to our business of investing in such securities or currencies, and net income from interests in “qualified publicly traded partnerships,” as defined in the Code. The annual distribution requirement is satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis an amount equal to at least 90% of our ordinary net taxable income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, reduced by deductible expenses. We are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and covenants under the Facilities that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. In such case, if we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to (i) dispose of certain investments quickly or (ii) raise additional capital to prevent the loss of our RIC qualification. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we raise additional capital to satisfy the asset diversification requirements, it could take us time to invest such capital. During this period, we will invest the additional capital in temporary investments, such as cash and cash equivalents, which we expect will earn yields substantially lower than the interest income that we anticipate receiving in respect of investments in first and second lien loans, mezzanine debt and high yield debt. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason, all of our taxable income will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates. The resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. There is a risk that you may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time. As a BDC for 1940 Act purposes and a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we intend to make distributions out of assets legally available for distribution on a quarterly basis to our stockholders once such distributions are authorized by our board of directors and declared by 28 us. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test that is applicable to us as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Further, if we invest a greater amount of assets in equity securities that do not pay current dividends, it could reduce the amount available for distribution. As a BDC, we may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash in respect of such income. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or contracted paid-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount, which could be significant relative to our overall investment activities, or increases in loan balances will be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash, including, for example, non-cash income from paid-in-kind securities and deferred payment securities. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash in respect of such income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement that we distribute an amount equal to at least 90% of our ordinary net taxable income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, reduced by deductible expenses, to qualify as a RIC. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investments to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC will affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. We have incurred indebtedness under the Facilities and we may issue debt securities or preferred stock, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to incur indebtedness or issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such incurrence or issuance. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test, which would prohibit us from paying dividends and could prevent us from qualifying as a RIC. If we cannot satisfy this test, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any commission or discount). If our common stock trades at a discount to net asset value, this restriction could adversely affect our ability to raise capital. To generate cash for funding new investments, we securitized a substantial portion of our portfolio via the Facilities. We may in the future seek to do additional securitizations. An inability 29 to successfully securitize our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business, fully execute our business strategy and decrease our earnings, if any. The securitization market is subject to changing market conditions and we may not be able to access this market when we would otherwise deem appropriate. Moreover, the successful securitization of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses as the residual loans in which we do not sell interests will tend to be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. The 1940 Act may also impose restrictions on the structure of any securitization. If our primary investments are deemed not to be qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a BDC or be precluded from investing according to our current business plan. If we are to maintain our qualification as a BDC, we must not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. We believe that the leveraged loans and mezzanine investments that we propose to acquire constitute qualifying assets because the privately held issuers will not, at the time of our investment, have securities listed on a national securities exchange. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) has adopted a rule that defines an “eligible portfolio company” as any private domestic operating company and public domestic operating company that does not have securities listed on a national securities exchange. In addition, the SEC has proposed a new rule that would expand the definition of eligible portfolio companies to include publicly-traded companies with a market capitalization of less than $250 million. If adopted or enacted, the effect of this rule would be to further reduce or eliminate confusion surrounding whether a company qualifies as an eligible portfolio company. We cannot assure you that this rule will be approved by the SEC. Until the SEC or its staff has issued a final rule, we will continue to monitor this issue closely. See “— Risks related to our business — Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation thereof, and any failure by us to comply with laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business” above. Our common stock may trade at a discount to our net asset value per share. Common stock of BDCs, as closed-end investment companies, frequently trades at a discount to net asset value. The possibility that our common stock may trade at a discount to our net asset value is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. The floating interest rate features of any indebtedness incurred by us could adversely affect us if interest rates rise. Any indebtedness incurred by us will likely bear interest at a floating rate based on an index. As a result, if that index increases, our costs under any indebtedness incurred would become more expensive, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Risks related to our investments Our investments may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Substantially all of the debt investments held in the portfolio hold, and will likely continue to hold, a non-investment grade rating by Moody’s Investors Service and/or Standard & Poor’s or, where not rated by any rating agency, would be below investment grade, if rated. Debt securities rated below investment grade are commonly referred to as “junk bonds.” A below investment grade rating means that, in the rating agency’s view, there is an increased risk that the 30 obligor on such debt will be unable to pay interest and repay principal on its debt in full. We may also invest in debt that defers or pays paid-in-kind interest. To the extent interest payments associated with such debt are deferred, such debt will be subject to greater fluctuations in value based on changes in interest rates, such debt could produce taxable income without a corresponding cash payment to us, and since we generally do not receive any cash prior to maturity of the debt, the investment will be of greater risk. In addition, private middle market companies in which we expect to invest are exposed to a number of significant risks, including: • limited financial resources and an inability to meet their obligations, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • dependence on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of which could have a material adverse impact on the company and, in turn, on us; • less predictable operating results and, possibly, substantial additional capital requirements to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and • difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our investment adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, acceleration of the time when the loans are due and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt that we hold and the value of any equity securities we own. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. 31 There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. If one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. In addition, lenders can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them where they become too involved in the borrower’s business or exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken if we actually render significant managerial assistance. The debt securities in which we invest are subject to credit risk and prepayment risk. An issuer of debt security may be unable to make interest payments and repay principal. We could lose money if the issuer of a debt obligation is, or is perceived to be, unable or unwilling to make timely principal and/or interest payments, or to otherwise honor its obligations. The downgrade of a security by rating agencies may further decrease its value. Certain debt instruments may contain call or redemption provisions which would allow the issuer thereof to prepay principal prior to the debt instrument’s stated maturity. This is known as prepayment risk. Prepayment risk is greater during a falling interest rate environment as issuers can reduce their cost of capital by refinancing higher interest debt instruments with lower interest debt instruments. An issuer may also elect to refinance their debt instruments with lower interest debt instruments if the credit standing of the issuer improves. To the extent debt securities in our portfolio are called or redeemed, we may receive less than we paid for such security and we may be forced to reinvest in lower yielding securities or debt securities of issuers of lower credit quality. Available information about privately held companies is limited. We invest primarily in privately-held companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our investment adviser’s investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. These companies and their financial information are not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules that govern public companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Our portfolio companies may incur debt or issue equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. Our portfolio companies usually will have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt, or issue other equity securities, that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments. By their terms, such instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of dividends, interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of our investments. These debt instruments will usually prohibit the portfolio companies from paying interest on or repaying our investments in the event and during the continuance of a default under such debt. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such holders, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debtor equity ranking equally with our investments, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions 32 with other holders in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. Investments in equity securities involve a substantial degree of risk. We may purchase common stock and other equity securities. Although equity securities have historically generated higher average total returns than fixed-income securities over the long term, equity securities also have experienced significantly more volatility in those returns and in recent years have significantly under performed relative to fixed-income securities. The equity securities we acquire may fail to appreciate and may decline in value or become worthless and our ability to recover our investment will depend on our portfolio company’s success. Investments in equity securities involve a number of significant risks, including: • any equity investment we make in a portfolio company could be subject to further dilution as a result of the issuance of additional equity interests and to serious risks as a junior security that will be subordinate to all indebtedness or senior securities in the event that the issuer is unable to meet its obligations or becomes subject to a bankruptcy process; • to the extent that the portfolio company requires additional capital and is unable to obtain it, we may not recover our investment in equity securities; and • in some cases, equity securities in which we invest will not pay current dividends, and our ability to realize a return on our investment, as well as to recover our investment, will be dependent on the success of our portfolio companies. Even if the portfolio companies are successful, our ability to realize the value of our investment may be dependent on the occurrence of a liquidity event, such as a public offering or the sale of the portfolio company. It is likely to take a significant amount of time before a liquidity event occurs or we can sell our equity investments. In addition, the equity securities we receive or invest in may be subject to restrictions on resale during periods in which it could be advantageous to sell. There are special risks associated with investing in preferred securities, including: • preferred securities may include provisions that permit the issuer, at its discretion, to defer distributions for a stated period without any adverse consequences to the issuer. If we own a preferred security that is deferring its distributions, we may be required to report income for tax purposes even though we have not received any cash payments in respect of such income; • preferred securities are subordinated with respect to corporate income and liquidation payments, and are therefore subject to greater risk than debt; • preferred securities may be substantially less liquid than many other securities, such as common securities or U.S. government securities; and • preferred security holders generally have no voting rights with respect to the issuing company, subject to limited exceptions. Our investments in foreign debt, including that of emerging market issuers, may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. 33 Although there are limitations on our ability to invest in foreign debt, we may, from time to time, invest in debt of foreign companies, including the debt of emerging market issuers. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Investments in the debt of emerging market issuers may subject us to additional risks such as inflation, wage and price controls, and the imposition of trade barriers. Furthermore, economic conditions in emerging market countries are, to some extent, influenced by economic and securities market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reaction to developments in one country can have effects on the debt of issuers in other countries. Although most of our investments will be U.S. dollar-denominated, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we cannot assure you that we will fully hedge against these risks or that such strategies will be effective. We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Use of these hedging instruments may expose us to counter-party credit risk. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is generally anticipated at an acceptable price. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We expect to make investments in private companies. A portion of these securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale, transfer, pledge or other disposition or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity to the extent that we or our investment adviser has or could be deemed to have material non-public information regarding such business entity. When we are a debt or minority equity investor in a portfolio company, we may not be in a position to control the entity, and its management may make decisions that could decrease the value of our investment. 34 We anticipate making both debt and minority equity investments; therefore, we will be subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. Our board of directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse. Our board of directors has the authority to modify or waive our current operating policies and our strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, financial condition, and value of our common stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to an investment in our shares Investing in our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objectives may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in our common stock may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in regulatory policies or tax rules, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs; • loss of RIC qualification; • changes in earnings or variations in operating results; • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • departure of our investment adviser’s key personnel; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source. 35 Provisions of our governing documents and the Maryland General Corporation Law could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We are governed by our charter and bylaws, which we refer to as our “governing documents.” Our governing documents and the Maryland General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of us that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or otherwise be in their best interest. Our charter provides for the classification of our board of directors into three classes of directors, serving staggered three-year terms, which may render a change of control of us or removal of our incumbent management more difficult. Furthermore, any and all vacancies on our board of directors will be filled generally only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum, and any director elected to fill a vacancy will serve for the remainder of the full term until a successor is elected and qualifies. Our board of directors is authorized to create and issue new series of shares, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock into one or more classes or series, including preferred stock and, without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock that we have authority to issue, which could have the effect of diluting a stockholder’s ownership interest. Prior to the issuance of shares of stock of each class or series, including any reclassified series, our board of directors is required by our governing documents to set the terms, preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption for each class or series of shares of stock. Our governing documents also provide that our board of directors has the exclusive power to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of our bylaws, and to make new bylaws. The Maryland General Corporation Law also contains certain provisions that may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, such as: • The Maryland Business Combination Act, which, subject to certain limitations, prohibits certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the common stock or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and, thereafter, imposes special minimum price provisions and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • The Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, which provides that “control shares” of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares of common stock which, when aggregated with other shares of common stock controlled by the stockholder, entitles the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares of common stock. The provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act will not apply, however, if our board of directors adopts a resolution that any business combination between us and any other 36 person will be exempt from the provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act. Although our board of directors has adopted such a resolution, there can be no assurance that this resolution will not be altered or repealed in whole or in part at any time. If the resolution is altered or repealed, the provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us. As permitted by Maryland law, our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of our common stock. Although our bylaws include such a provision, such a provision may also be amended or eliminated by our board of directors at any time in the future. 37 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 