1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks related to our liquidity and financial condition We have exceeded the permissible borrowing limits under our Revolving Facility, resulting in an event of default that permits our lenders to accelerate repayment of the outstanding indebtedness and foreclose and liquidate our assets. The amount that may be outstanding under our Revolving Facility at any time (our “Borrowing Base”) is based on, among other things, the value of the pledged collateral. (See Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this Annual Report for details). If securities deemed to have a rating of Caa2 or below by Moody’s comprise in excess of 30% of the value of the collateral, such excess Caa2 rated securities are deemed to have a value of zero when calculating the Borrowing Base. The economic recession and resultant stress on our portfolio companies has resulted in a large number of our portfolio companies being downgraded by one or more rating agencies, and continued economic stress may result in additional downgrades in the future. 19 As of February 28, 2010, approximately 71.2% of the collateral was deemed to be rated Caa2 or below by Moody’s and a further 15.4% of the collateral was deemed to be rated Caa1. As a consequence, approximately 41.2% of securities pledged as collateral under our Revolving Facility are deemed to have a value of zero when calculating the Borrowing Base and has resulted in the Borrowing Base being less than our outstanding borrowings. On July 30, 2009, we exceeded permissible borrowing limits for 30 consecutive days, resulting in an event of default under our credit facility that is continuing. As a result of this event of default, our lender has the right to accelerate repayment of the outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility and to foreclose and liquidate the collateral pledged thereunder. Acceleration of the outstanding indebtedness and/or liquidation of the collateral would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and operations. A forced liquidation of the pledged assets under our Revolving Facility may yield less than the fair value of the assets. As a result of the continuing event of default under our Revolving Facility, our lender has the right to accelerate the outstanding indebtedness and liquidate the pledged assets. Given the unfavorable conditions in the credit markets, the pledged assets may be liquidated for less than their fair value. If the pledged assets are sold for less than fair value, we will incur realized losses that will negatively affect net asset value and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. As a result, shareholders may realize less than the current net asset value of the common stock. Continuance of an event of default under our Revolving Facility and/or deferral of payments from GSCIC CLO may result in a shortage of working capital. Substantially all of our assets other than our investment in the subordinated notes of GSCIC CLO are held in a special purpose subsidiary and pledged under our Revolving Facility. We commenced the two year amortization period under the Revolving Facility in January 2009, during which time all principal proceeds from the pledged assets are used to repay the Revolving Facility. In addition, during the continuance of an event of default, all interest proceeds from the pledged assets are also used to repay the Revolving Facility. As a result, the Company is required to fund its operating expenses and dividends solely from cash on hand, management fees earned from, and the proceeds of the subordinated notes of, GSCIC CLO. Management fees and subordinated note distributions from GSCIC CLO are also subject to deferral depending on the performance of the GSCIC CLO portfolio. If the event of default under the Revolving Facility continues, and/or distributions from GSCIC CLO are deferred, the Company may find itself with insufficient working capital to fund its operating expenses and/or pay dividends sufficient to comply with its RIC requirements. If such an event were to occur, the ability of the Company to continue to operate and/or comply with its RIC requirements would be seriously impaired. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has concluded that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements as of February 28, 2009 and 2010 and for the three years in the period ended February 28, 2010 were prepared on a “going concern” basis; however, our independent registered public accounting firm concluded in its report dated May 27, 2010 regarding those consolidated financial statements, that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of our remaining in default under our Revolving Facility, which gives our lender the right to accelerate repayment of the outstanding indebtedness and foreclose and liquidate the collateral pledged. This would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and operations. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 20 Risks related to the proposed Saratoga Transaction The Saratoga Transaction is subject to closing conditions, including approval by our stockholders, and, while pending, may cause disruption in our business. The Saratoga Transaction requires approval by our stockholders and is subject to various closing conditions. The Saratoga Transaction may also be terminated or abandoned by one or both parties under certain circumstances. Even if the Saratoga Transaction is consummated, the success of the post-transaction company and any improvement in our financial condition and operations cannot be assured. The announcement of the Saratoga Transaction, whether or not consummated, has and may continue to result in a loss of key personnel and may disrupt our operations, which may have an impact on our financial performance. The Stock Purchase Agreement generally requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the Saratoga Transaction, but includes certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our business that may affect our ability to execute on our business strategies and attain our financial goals. Additionally, the announcement of the pending Saratoga Transaction, whether or not consummated, may impact our relationships with third parties and investors. Failure to consummate the Saratoga Transaction could negatively impact us and, if the pending Saratoga Transaction is not consummated, we will have incurred significant expenses and our stock price may decline. If the Saratoga Transaction is not consummated, we would still remain liable for significant transaction costs and expenses, and the focus of our management would have been diverted from seeking other potential strategic opportunities, in each case without realizing any benefits of a completed transaction. Depending on the basis for not consummating the Saratoga Transaction, we could also be required to pay Saratoga a termination fee of $1.25 million or an expense reimbursement of up to $500,000. In addition, if the Saratoga Transaction is not consummated, we have no assurance that our lender will continue to forbear exercising its remedial rights under the Revolving Facility and may take action against the collateral pledged under the Revolving Facility. For these and other reasons, a failed transaction could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected to the extent that the current price reflects an assumption that the Saratoga Transaction will be completed. These matters, alone or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Saratoga, the entity to become the Company’s investment adviser, subject to stockholder approval and consummation of the Saratoga Transaction, has no prior experience managing a business development company or a RIC. The 1940 Act and the Code impose numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies and RICs that do not apply to the other investment vehicles previously managed by the principals of Saratoga. For example, under the 1940 Act, business development companies are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of qualifying U.S. private or thinly-traded companies. Moreover, qualification for taxation as a RIC under subchapter M of the Code requires satisfaction of source-of-income and diversification requirements and our ability to avoid corporate-level taxes on our income and gains depends on our satisfaction of distribution requirements. The failure to comply with these provisions in a timely manner could prevent us from qualifying as a business development company or RIC or could force us to pay unexpected taxes and penalties, which could be material. Saratoga, the entity to become the Company’s investment adviser if approved by the vote of the Company’s stockholders and subject to the closing of the Saratoga Transaction, is a newly-formed entity and is newly-registered with the SEC as an investment adviser pursuant to the Advisers Act. As a new entity, Saratoga does not have any prior experience managing a business development company or RIC and its lack of experience in managing a portfolio of assets under such constraints may hinder its ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objectives. Saratoga also does not have a proven track-record in managing corporate debt investments and collateralized loan obligation funds. Despite the 25-year history of Saratoga Partners, an affiliate of Saratoga, with a track record in private investments in middle market companies, there is no guarantee that Saratoga Partners’ past performance record will translate into future success. 21 Moreover, Saratoga intends to supplement its capabilities in the management of the Company’s investments by recruiting and hiring additional professionals with experience in the management of debt investments and collateralized loan obligations and to dedicate such individuals to the management of the Company. Although Saratoga has represented that it has had discussions with a number of qualified individuals, and the Company’s independent directors have discussed with Saratoga their interviewing criteria and processes, including the caliber of individuals being considered for such positions, and have vetted such processes to their satisfaction and in consideration of their statutory duties to the Company, there is no guarantee that Saratoga will hire or will have hired a sufficient number of professionals with adequate experience in the Company’s line of business as of or after the closing of the Saratoga Transaction. Even if consummated, the Saratoga Transaction may not achieve the intended results and our post-transaction company may not succeed. Certain of our stockholders may view the post-transaction company as a different and less desirable investment vehicle for their capital, and sales of shares of our common stock by such stockholders could depress the share price of our common stock. For this and the reasons set forth above, there can be no assurance that, if the Saratoga Transaction is consummated, the post-transaction company will succeed. Risks related to current economic and market conditions The recent global recession has impaired our portfolio companies and harmed our operating results. The U.S. economy is tentatively recovering from a severe recession. Many of the companies in which we have made or will make investments have been adversely affected. An economic recession, including the recent recession and any future recessions or economic slowdowns, may affect the ability of a company to repay our loans or engage in a liquidity event such as a sale, recapitalization, or initial public offering. Such adverse economic conditions may decrease the value of collateral securing our loans, if any. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, acceleration of the time when the loans are due and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt that we hold and the value of any equity securities we own. We may also incur expenses to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. Declining asset values and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing the value of our assets. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair market value as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors. Decreases in the values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation. The recent unprecedented declines in asset values and liquidity in the corporate debt markets have resulted in significant net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. As a result, we have incurred and, depending on market conditions, we may continue to incur, significant unrealized depreciation in our portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Our common stock could be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange if our average market capitalization over 30 consecutive trading days is below $15 million. In order to maintain our listing on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), we must continue to meet the NYSE minimum average market capitalization requirement. At February 28, 2010, our minimum average market capitalization over the preceding 30 consecutive trading days was $28.3 million. If the average market capitalization over 30 consecutive trading days falls below $15.0 million, our common stock may be delisted, which could (i) reduce the liquidity and market price of our common stock; (ii) negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing and access the public capital markets; and (iii) materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Risks related to our investment advisors We are dependent upon our investment adviser and its personnel. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our investment adviser’s investment professionals and the information and deal flow generated by them in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities and on our investment advisor’s non-investment professionals for the provision of our administrative services, including legal, compliance and accounting services, necessary for our business. The departure of a significant number of the investment and non-investment professionals of our investment adviser could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate and achieve our investment objectives. In April 2009, our investment adviser withheld a scheduled principal amortization payment under its credit facility, resulting in a default thereunder. Since then, our investment adviser and its secured lenders have been in negotiations regarding a consensual restructuring of its obligations under such credit facility. While we are not directly affected by our investment adviser’s default, if it is unable to restructure its credit facility, or an acceleration of the outstanding principal balance by the lenders occurs, the ability of the investment adviser to retain key individuals and perform its investment advisory duties for us could be significantly impaired. A material adverse change in the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations or performance of our investment adviser could constitute a default under our Revolving Facility. At February 28, 2010, our investment advisor employed approximately 45 persons, down from 85 at February 28, 2009. The corporate credit and distressed investment group, which provides investment advisory and management services to the Company, employed 12 investment professional at February 28, 2010 down from 19 at February 28, 2009. On May 25, 2010, our CFO, Richard T. Allorto, Jr., announced his resignation from the Company and GSC Group, to take effect on July 15, 2010. The Board of Directors of the Company actively monitors the financial condition of GSC Group to ensure that adequate resources are available to the Company. We expect GSC Group to continue to provide the necessary resources to the Company, supplemented with third party service providers, when and if necessary. If adequate resources are not available and the Company is not able to employ a replacement investment advisor, the Company’s ability to operate and achieve its investment objectives may be materially impaired. If we consummate the proposed Saratoga Transaction, we will replace our current investment adviser, GSCP, with a new investment adviser, Saratoga. Saratoga has no experience managing a BDC or a RIC, and we can provide no assurance that the past performance of Saratoga Partners, the parent affiliate of Saratoga, will translate into future success. In addition, we cannot assure you that Saratoga will remain our investment adviser or that we will continue to have access to Saratoga’s investment professionals or its information and deal flow. Our Chief Financial Officer, Richard T. Allorto, Jr., announced his resignation effective July 15, 2010. On May 25, 2010, our Chief Financial Officer, Richard T. Allorto, Jr., announced his resignation effective July 15, 2010. The departure of Mr. Allorto may have an adverse effect on our business and future operations if GSC is unable to procure an adequate replacement, particularly if the Saratoga Transaction is not consummated in the near future or at all. In order to avoid a negative impact on our operations, GSC Group is preparing an appropriate succession plan. However, we can provide no assurance that GSC will be able to find a timely and adequate replacement for Mr. Allorto. Furthermore, a significant leadership change is inherently risky and we may be unable to manage the transition to a new CFO smoothly, which may cause a disruption to our business and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to our business We employ leverage. We currently use the Revolving Facility to leverage our portfolio and our strategy includes borrowing from and issuing senior debt securities to banks and other lenders, subject to market conditions, as well as securitizing certain of our portfolio investments. However, under current market conditions, we are not in a position to issue senior debt securities on acceptable terms. With certain limited exceptions, as a BDC we are only allowed to borrow amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least 200% after such borrowing. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our investment adviser’s and our Board of Directors’ assessment of market conditions and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. There is no assurance that a leveraging strategy will be successful. Leverage involves risks and special considerations for stockholders, including: • A likelihood of greater volatility in the net asset value and market price of our common stock. • Diminished operating flexibility as a result of asset coverage or investment portfolio composition requirements that are more stringent than those imposed by the 1940 Act. • The possibility that investments will have to be liquidated at less than full value or at inopportune times to comply with debt covenants or to pay interest or dividends on the leverage. • Increased operating expenses due to the cost of leverage, including issuance and servicing costs. • Subordination to lenders’ superior claims on our assets as a result of which lenders will be able to receive proceeds available in the case of our liquidation before any proceeds are distributed to our shareholders. For example, the amount we may borrow under our Revolving Facility is determined, in part, by the fair value of our investments. As the fair value of our investments declines, we are forced to sell investments at a loss to maintain compliance with our borrowing limits. We are currently in default of our Revolving Facility for failure to maintain compliance with our borrowing limits. Other debt facilities we may enter into in the future, including the proposed Replacement Facility, contain similar provisions. Such forced sales reduce our net asset value and also make it difficult for the net asset value to recover. Our investment adviser and our Board of Directors in their best judgment nevertheless may determine to use leverage if they expect that the benefits to our stockholders of maintaining the leveraged position will outweigh the risks. We need to find alternative sources of leverage and/or access the equity markets to maintain and grow our business. We commenced the two year amortization period under the Revolving Facility in January 2009, during which time all principal proceeds of our pledged investments are used to reduce the outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Facility. In addition, during the continuance of the event of default that exists under our Revolving Facility, all interest proceeds from the pledged assets are also used to repay the Revolving Facility. As a result, the Company is required to fund its operating expenses and dividends solely from cash on hand, management fees earned from, and the proceeds of the subordinated notes of, GSCIC CLO. On the second anniversary of the amortization period, all remaining outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Facility will become due and payable. As a result of these mandatory repayments, our investment portfolio will begin to de-leverage commencing with the payment of the first principal proceeds on our portfolio, and must be completely deleveraged in two years, unless we can obtain an alternative source of financing. 23 On April 14, 2010, we entered into the Stock Purchase Agreement with Saratoga and CLO Partners LLC and an assignment, assumption and novation agreement with Saratoga, pursuant to which we assumed certain rights and obligations of Saratoga under the Madison Commitment Letter Saratoga received from Madison, indicating Madison’s willingness to provide the Company with a $40 million senior secured revolving credit facility, subject to the satisfaction of certain terms and conditions. However, if the Saratoga Transaction is not consummated and we do not receive the Replacement Facility from Madison, given the unfavorable conditions in the credit markets, there is no assurance we will be able to secure new financing or, if we are able to obtain financing, that the terms of such financing will be commensurate with the terms of the Revolving Facility. Because our ability to generate net investment income is based, in part, on the use of relatively inexpensive financing available under the Revolving Facility to purchase portfolio assets, the amortization of the Revolving Facility will negatively impact our ability to generate investment income (and pay dividends) in the future. Because the amount of leverage we can employ is limited by the 1940 Act, our ability to grow depends on raising additional equity capital notwithstanding the availability of additional leverage. Under current market conditions, we are not in a position to issue additional equity capital. An inability to access the equity capital markets will limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy. Many of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors; such valuations are inherently uncertain and may be materially higher or lower than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such investments. A large percentage of our portfolio is, and we expect will continue to be, comprised of investments that are not publicly traded. The value of investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We value these investments quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. Where appropriate, our Board of Directors may utilize the services of an independent valuation firm to aid it in determining fair value. The types of factors that may be considered in valuing our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, market yield trend analysis, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private investments and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments existed. Our net asset value could be materially affected if the determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher or lower than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such investments. Our independent registered public accountants have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and our business and stock price may be adversely affected if we have not adequately addressed the weakness or if we have other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accountants have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. In particular, we did not maintain effective controls over the accounting and disclosure of complex investment valuations. The material weakness related to an error in the valuation reconciliation for certain investments. This error occurred as a result of an inadequate internal review and reconciliation of the inputs used in preparing the complex investment valuations. In order to remediate the material weakness, we have requested that GSC Group provide us with additional staff and support in order to improve our internal control over financial reporting. These control deficiencies resulted in adjustments to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended February 28, 2010. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, we face the risk that, notwithstanding our efforts to identify and remedy all material errors in those financial statements, we may discover other errors in the future. We also face the risk that the cost of identifying and remedying the errors and remediating our material weakness in internal controls will be high and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be obligated to pay our investment adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a net loss, regardless of the market value of our common stock. Our investment adviser is entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our investment income for that quarter (before deducting incentive compensation, net operating losses and certain other items) above a threshold return for that quarter. Our pre-incentive fee net investment income, for incentive compensation purposes, excludes realized and unrealized capital losses that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our investment adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our Portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter. Under the investment advisory and management agreement, we will defer cash payment of any incentive fee otherwise earned by our investment adviser if, during the most recent four full quarterly periods ending on or prior to the date such payment is to be made, the sum of (a) our aggregate distributions to our stockholders and (b) our change in net assets (defined as total assets less liabilities) is less than 7.5% of our net assets at the beginning of such period. These calculations will be appropriately pro rated during the first three quarters of this fiscal year and will be adjusted for any share issuances or repurchases. Furthermore, the incentive fee that we pay is not tied to the market value of our common stock. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that is structured to provide accrued interest, it is possible that accrued interest previously included in the calculation of the incentive fee will become uncollectible. The investment adviser is not under any obligation to reimburse us for any part of the incentive fee it received that was based on accrued income that we never received as a result of a default by an entity on the obligation that resulted in the accrual of such income. 24 The proposed investment advisory and management agreement with Saratoga is substantially similar to the investment advisory and management agreement with our current investment adviser, except for the following material distinctions in the fee terms: • The capital gains portion of the incentive fee will be reset with respect to gains and losses from May 31, 2010, and therefore losses and gains incurred prior to such time will not be taken into account when calculating the capital gains fee, and Saratoga will be entitled to 20% of gains that arise after May 31, 2010. In addition, the cost basis for computing realized losses on investment held by the Company as of May 31, 2010 will equal the fair value of such investment as of such date. Under the investment advisory and management agreement with our current investment adviser, the capital gains fee is calculated from March 21, 2007, and the gains are substantially outweighed by losses. • Under the “catch up” provision, 100% of the Company’s pre-incentive fee net investment income with respect to that portion of such pre-incentive fee net investment income that exceeds 1.875% (7.5% annualized) but is less than or equal to 2.344% in any fiscal quarter is payable to Saratoga. This will enable Saratoga to receive 20% of all net investment income as such amount approaches 2.344% in any quarter, and Saratoga will receive 20% of any additional net investment income. Under the investment advisory and management agreement with our current investment adviser, GSCP only receives 20% of the excess net investment income over 1.875%. • The Company will no longer have deferral rights regarding incentive fees in the event that the distributions to stockholders and change in net assets is less than 7.5% for the preceding four fiscal quarters. Our investment adviser’s incentive compensation may cause it to pursue a high risk investment strategy. The incentive fee payable to the investment adviser may create an incentive for the investment adviser to make investments that are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable to the investment adviser is determined (in the case of GSCP, 20% of the pre-incentive fee net investment income that exceeds a hurdle rate of a 1.875% quarterly return on the value of net assets, and in the case of Saratoga, 100% of the pre-incentive fee net investment income that exceeds a hurdle rate of a 1.875% quarterly return on the value of net assets, up to 2.344% in any quarter) may encourage the investment adviser to use leverage to increase the return to the Company’s investments. If the investment adviser acquires poorly-performing assets with such leverage, the loss to holders of the shares could be substantial. Moreover, if our leverage is increased, we will be exposed to increased risk of loss, bear the increased cost of issuing and servicing such senior indebtedness, and will be subject to any additional covenant restrictions imposed on us in an indenture or other instrument or by the applicable lender. Our Board of Directors will monitor the conflicts presented by this compensation structure by approving the amount of leverage that we may incur. In addition, the investment adviser receives the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike the portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, the investment adviser may have a tendency to invest more in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns. Our investment adviser’s base compensation may cause it to increase our leverage contrary to our interest. We pay the investment adviser a quarterly base management fee based on the value of our total assets (including any assets acquired with leverage). Accordingly, the investment adviser has an economic incentive to increase our leverage. Our Board of Directors monitors the conflicts presented by this compensation structure by approving the amount of leverage that we incur. If our leverage is increased, we will be exposed to increased risk of loss, bear the increase cost of issuing and servicing such senior indebtedness, and will be subject to any additional covenant restrictions imposed on us in an indenture or other instrument or by the applicable lender. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make in private middle market companies. We compete with other BDCs, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, insurance companies, high-yield investors, hedge funds, and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments that could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC. As a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and make investments that meet our investment objectives. 25 We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we offer and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. As a result of operating in such a competitive environment, we may make investments that are on better terms to our portfolio companies than we originally anticipated, which may impact our return on these investments. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. However, we intend to comply with the diversification requirements imposed by the Code for qualification as a RIC. Our financial condition and results of operation depend on our ability to manage future investments effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on our ability to acquire suitable investments and monitor and administer those investments, which depends, in turn, on our investment adviser’s ability to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our investment adviser’s structuring of the investment process and its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient service to us. Our executive officers and the employees of our investment adviser have substantial responsibilities in connection with their roles at GSC Group and with the other GSC Group investment vehicles as well as responsibilities under the investment advisory and management agreement. Likewise, if the proposed Saratoga Transaction is consummated, the executive officers of our new investment adviser will have substantial responsibilities in connection with their roles at Saratoga and with other Saratoga investment vehicles as well as responsibilities under the investment advisory and management agreement. They may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. These demands on their time, which will increase as the number of investments grow, may distract them or slow the rate of investment. In order to grow, our investment adviser may need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. However, we cannot assure you that any such employees will contribute to the work of the investment adviser. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with our investment adviser and/or affiliates of our investment adviser that could cause them to make decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. Subject to the restrictions of the 1940 Act, we may co-invest in investments of portfolio companies on a concurrent basis with other investment vehicles managed by affiliates of our investment adviser, such as GSC Group, or, if we consummate the proposed Saratoga Transaction, Saratoga. An affiliate-managed investment vehicle may, in certain circumstances, invest in securities issued by a company in which we have made, or are making, an investment. Similarly, in certain circumstances, we may invest in securities issued by a company in which another affiliate-managed investment vehicle has made an investment. Although certain such investments may present conflicts of interest, we nonetheless may pursue and consummate such transactions. These conflicts may include: Co-Investment. We are prohibited from co-investing with other investment vehicles managed now or in the future by our affiliates in certain investments of portfolio companies in instances where our affiliates negotiate terms other than price. In instances where we co-invest with an affiliate-managed investment vehicle, while we will invest on the same terms and neither we nor the affiliate-managed investment vehicle may negotiate terms of the transaction other than price, conflicts of interest may arise. For example, if an investee company in which both we and an affiliate-managed investment vehicle have invested becomes distressed, and the size of our relative investments varies significantly, the decisions relating to actions to be taken could raise conflicts of interest. 26 Conflicts in Different Parts of Capital Structure. If a portfolio company in which we and another affiliate-managed investment vehicle hold different classes of securities encounters financial problems, decisions over the terms of any workout will raise conflicts of interest. For example, a debt holder may be better served by a liquidation of the issuer in which it will be paid in full, whereas an equity holder might prefer a reorganization that could create value for the equity holder. Potential Conflicting Positions. Given our investment objectives and the investment objectives of other affiliate-managed investment vehicles, it is possible that we may hold a position that is contrary to a position held by another affiliate-managed investment vehicle. For example, we could hold a longer term investment in a certain portfolio company and at the same time another affiliate-managed investment vehicle could hold a short-term position in the same company. Our affiliates make each investment decision separately based upon the investment objective of each of their clients. Shared Legal Counsel. We and other affiliate-managed investment vehicles generally engage common legal counsel in transactions in which both are participating or with respect to matters that may affect both. Although separate counsel may be engaged, the time and cost savings and other efficiencies and advantages of using common counsel will generally outweigh the disadvantages. In the event of a significant dispute or divergence of interests, typically in a work-out or other distressed situation, separate representation may become desirable, and in litigation and other circumstances, separate representation may be necessary. Allocation of Opportunities. Our investment adviser provides investment management, investment advice or other services in relation to a number of investment vehicles that focus on corporate credit, distressed debt, mezzanine investments and structured finance products and have investment objectives that are similar to or overlap with ours. Investment opportunities that may be of interest to us may also be of interest to our affiliates’ other investment vehicles, and our affiliates may buy or sell securities for us which differ from securities which they may cause to be bought or sold for other investment vehicles. Our affiliates have greater interests in other investment vehicles they manage, including greater capital commitments to, or larger fees earned from, such investment vehicles. These differing interests may create a conflict of interest for our affiliates in determining which investment vehicle should pursue a given investment opportunity. Material Nonpublic Information. Our affiliates or their employees, officers, principals or affiliates may come into possession of material nonpublic information in connection with business activities unrelated to our operations. The possession of such information may limit our ability to buy or sell securities or otherwise participate in an investment opportunity or to take other action we might consider in our best interest. Cross-Trading. Subject to applicable law, we may engage in transactions directly with other investment vehicles managed by our affiliates, including the purchase or sale of all or a portion of a portfolio investment. Cross-trades can save us brokerage commissions and, in certain cases, related transaction costs. Cross-trades between affiliates may create conflicts of interest with respect to certain terms of the transaction, including price. The 1940 Act imposes substantial restrictions on cross-trades between us and investment vehicles managed by our affilaites. As a result, our Board of Directors has adopted cross-trading procedures designed to ensure compliance with the requirements of the 1940 Act and will regularly review the terms of any cross-trades. We may compete with investment vehicles of our parent affiliate for access to our parent affiliate. Our investment adviser and its affiliates have sponsored and currently manage other investment vehicles with an investment focus that overlaps with our focus, and may in the future sponsor or manage additional investment vehicles with an overlapping focus to ours, which, in each case, could result in us competing for access to the benefits that we expect our relationship with our parent affiliate to provide to us. 27 We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. General interest rate fluctuations and changes in credit spreads on floating rate loans may have a substantial negative impact on our investments and investment opportunities and, accordingly, may have a material adverse effect on investment objectives and our rate of return on invested capital. In addition, an increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. Decreases in credit spreads on debt that pays a floating rate of return would have an impact on the income generation of our floating rate assets. Trading prices for debt that pays a fixed rate of return tend to fall as interest rates rise. Trading prices tend to fluctuate more for fixed-rate securities that have longer maturities. Although we have no policy governing the maturities of our investments, under current market conditions we expect that we will invest in a portfolio of debt generally having maturities of up to ten years. This means that we will be subject to greater risk (other things being equal) than an entity investing solely in shorter-term securities. A decline in the prices of the debt we own could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rate payable on the debt investments we make, the default rate on such investments, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Our investment adviser’s liability is limited under the investment advisory and management agreement and we will indemnify our investment adviser against certain liabilities, which may lead our investment adviser to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Our investment adviser has not assumed any responsibility to us other than to render the services described in the investment advisory and management agreement. Pursuant to the investment advisory and management agreement, our investment adviser and its general partner, officers and employees are not liable to us for their acts, under the investment advisory and management agreement, absent willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties. We have agreed to indemnify, defend and protect our investment adviser and its general partner, officers and employees with respect to all damages, liabilities, costs and expenses resulting from acts of our investment adviser not arising out of willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties under the investment advisory and management agreement. These protections may lead our investment adviser to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. If we enter into the proposed Saratoga Transaction, the new investment advisory and management agreement will contain substantially the same indemnification provisions as under our current investment advisory and management agreement. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation thereof, and any failure by us to comply with laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Any change in these laws or regulations, or their interpretation, or any failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. As discussed below, there is a risk that certain investments that we intend to treat as qualifying assets will be determined to not be eligible for such treatment. Any such determination would have a material adverse effect on our business. 28 Risks related to our operation as a BDC Our common stock may trade at a discount to our net asset value per share. Common stock of BDCs, as closed-end investment companies, frequently trade at a discount to net asset value. Our common stock has traded at a discount to our net asset value since shortly after our initial public offering. The risk that our common stock may continue to trade at a discount to our net asset value is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC will affect our ability to raise additional capital. We have incurred indebtedness under the Revolving Facility and we may issue debt securities or preferred stock, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to incur indebtedness or issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such incurrence or issuance. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test, which could prohibit us from paying dividends and prevent us from qualifying as a RIC. If we cannot satisfy this test, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any commission or discount). If our common stock trades at a discount to net asset value, this restriction could adversely affect our ability to raise capital. To generate cash for funding new investments, we pledged a substantial portion of our portfolio investments under the Revolving Facility. Such assets are not available to secure other sources of funding or for securitization. Our ability to obtain additional secured or unsecured financing on attractive terms in the future is uncertain. Alternatively, we may in the future seek to securitize a portion of our loan portfolio. The loan and securitization markets are subject to changing market conditions, however, and we may not be able to access this market when we would otherwise deem appropriate. An inability to obtain additional leverage through secured or unsecured financing or securitization of our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business, fully execute our business strategy and decrease our earnings, if any. We may also face a heightened risk of loss to the extent we hold a first loss position in a securitized loan portfolio. The 1940 Act may also impose restrictions on the structure of any securitization. There is a risk that you may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time. As a BDC for 1940 Act purposes and a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we intend to make distributions out of assets legally available for distribution on a quarterly basis to our stockholders once such distributions are authorized by our Board of Directors and declared by us. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test that is applicable to us as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Further, if we invest a greater amount of assets in equity securities that do not pay current dividends, it could reduce the amount available for distribution. A failure on our part to maintain our qualification as a BDC would significantly reduce our operating flexibility. If we fail to qualify as a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we fail to qualify as a RIC. We will seek to qualify as a RIC under the Code, which requires us to qualify continuously as a BDC and meet certain source of income, distribution and asset diversification requirements. The source of income requirement is satisfied if we derive at least 90% of our annual gross income from interest, dividends, payments with respect to certain securities loans, gains from the sale or other disposition of securities or options thereon or foreign currencies, or other income derived with respect to our business of investing in such securities or currencies, and net income from interests in “qualified publicly traded partnerships,” as defined in the Code. 29 The annual distribution requirement is satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis an amount equal to at least 90% of our ordinary net taxable income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, reduced by deductible expenses. We are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and covenants under the Facilities that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. In such case, if we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to (i) dispose of certain investments quickly or (ii) raise additional capital to prevent the loss of our RIC qualification. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we raise additional capital to satisfy the asset diversification requirements, it could take us time to invest such capital. During this period, we will invest the additional capital in temporary investments, such as cash and cash equivalents, which we expect will earn yields substantially lower than the interest income that we anticipate receiving in respect of investments in first and second lien loans, mezzanine debt and high yield debt. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason, all of our taxable income will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates. The resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. As a BDC, we may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash in respect of such income. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or contracted paid-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount, which could be significant relative to our overall investment activities, or increases in loan balances will be included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash, including, for example, non-cash income from paid-in-kind securities and deferred payment securities. In addition, we will consolidate GSCIC CLO for federal income tax purposes, and income earned thereon may differ from the distributions paid in respect of our investment in the GSCIC CLO subordinated notes because of the factors set forth above or because distributions on the subordinated notes are contractually required to be diverted for reinvestment or to pay down outstanding indebtedness. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash in respect of such income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement that we distribute an amount equal to at least 90% of our ordinary net taxable income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, reduced by deductible expenses, to qualify as a RIC. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments (or investments in the GSCIC CLO portfolio) at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investments to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, or are restricted from selling investments in the GSCIC CLO portfolio by the terms of the applicable indenture, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. If our primary investments are deemed not to be qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a BDC or be precluded from investing according to our current business plan. If we are to maintain our qualification as a BDC, we must not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. We believe that the leveraged loans and mezzanine investments that we propose to acquire constitute qualifying assets because, at the time of our investment, the privately held issuers will not have securities listed on a national securities exchange and the publicly traded issuers will have a market capitalization of less than $250 million. The floating interest rate features of any indebtedness incurred by us could adversely affect us if interest rates rise. Any indebtedness incurred by us will likely bear interest at a floating rate based on an index. As a result, if that index increases, our costs under any indebtedness incurred would become more expensive, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. 30 Risks related to our investments Our investments may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Substantially all of the debt investments held in the portfolio hold, and will likely continue to hold, a non-investment grade rating by Moody’s and/or Standard & Poor’s or, where not rated by any rating agency, would be below investment grade, if rated. High yield bonds rated below investment grade are commonly referred to as “junk bonds.” A below investment grade rating means that, in the rating agency’s view, there is an increased risk that the obligor on such debt will be unable to pay interest and repay principal on its debt in full. We may also invest in debt that defers or pays paid-in-kind interest. To the extent interest payments associated with such debt are deferred, such debt will be subject to greater fluctuations in value based on changes in interest rates, such debt could produce taxable income without a corresponding cash payment to us, and since we generally do not receive any cash prior to maturity of the debt, the investment will be of greater risk. In addition, private middle market companies in which we expect to invest are exposed to a number of significant risks, including: • limited financial resources and an inability to meet their obligations, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • dependence on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of which could have a material adverse impact on the company and, in turn, on us; • less predictable operating results and, possibly, substantial additional capital requirements to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position.; and • difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our investment adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We expect to make investments in private companies. A portion of these securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale, transfer, pledge or other disposition or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity to the extent that we or our investment adviser has or could be deemed to have material non-public information regarding such business entity. The debt securities in which we invest are subject to credit risk and prepayment risk. An issuer of debt security may be unable to make interest payments and repay principal. We could lose money if the issuer of a debt obligation is, or is perceived to be, unable or unwilling to make timely principal and/or interest payments, or to otherwise honor its obligations. The downgrade of a security by rating agencies may further decrease its value. Certain debt instruments may contain call or redemption provisions which would allow the issuer thereof to prepay principal prior to the debt instrument’s stated maturity. This is known as prepayment risk. Prepayment risk is greater during a falling interest rate environment as issuers can reduce their cost of capital by refinancing higher interest debt instruments with lower interest debt instruments. An issuer may also elect to refinance their debt instruments with lower interest debt instruments if the credit standing of the issuer improves. To the extent debt securities in our portfolio are called or redeemed, we may receive less than we paid for such security and we may be forced to reinvest in lower yielding securities or debt securities of issuers of lower credit quality. 31 Our investment in GSCIC CLO constitutes a leveraged investment in a portfolio of predominantly senior secured first lien term loans and is subject to additional risks and volatility. At February 28, 2010, our investment in the subordinated notes of GSCIC CLO had a fair value of $16.7 million and constituted 18.7% of our portfolio. This investment constitutes a first loss position in a portfolio that, as of February 28, 2010, was composed of $387.1 million in aggregate principal amount of primarily senior secured first lien term loans and $21.1 million in uninvested cash. Interest payments generated from this portfolio will be used to pay the administrative expenses of GSCIC CLO and interest on the debt issued by GSCIC CLO before paying a return on the subordinated notes. Principal payments will be similarly applied to pay administrative expenses of GSCIC CLO and for reinvestment or repayment of GSCIC CLO debt before paying a return on, or repayment of, the subordinated notes. In addition, 80% of our fixed management fee and 100% our incentive management fee is subordinated to the payment of interest and principal on GSCIC CLO’s debt. Any losses on the portfolio will accordingly reduce the cash flow available to pay these management fees and provide a return on, or repayment of, our investment. Depending on the amount and timing of such losses we may experience smaller than expected returns and, potentially, the loss of our entire investment. As the manager of the portfolio, we will have some ability to direct the composition of the portfolio, but our discretion is limited by the terms of the debt issued by GSCIC CLO, which may limit our ability to make investments that we feel are in the best interests of the subordinated notes, and the availability of suitable investments. The performance of the portfolio is also subject to many of the same risks sets forth in this Annual Report with respect to portfolio investments in senior secured first lien term loans. Available information about privately held companies is limited. We invest primarily in privately-held companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our investment adviser’s investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. These companies and their financial information are not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules that govern public companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. When we are a debt or minority equity investor in a portfolio company, we may not be in a position to control the entity, and its management may make decisions that could decrease the value of our investment. We anticipate making both debt and minority equity investments; therefore, we will be subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. Our portfolio companies may incur debt or issue equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. Our portfolio companies usually will have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt, or issue other equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments. By their terms, such instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of dividends, interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of our investments. These debt instruments will usually prohibit the portfolio companies from paying interest on or repaying our investments in the event and during the continuance of a default under such debt. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such holders, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debtor equity ranking equally with our investments, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other holders in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. If one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. In addition, lenders can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them where they become too involved in the borrower’s business or exercise control over the borrower. It is possible that we could become subject to a lender’s liability claim, including as a result of actions taken if we actually render significant managerial assistance. 32 Investments in equity securities involve a substantial degree of risk. We may purchase common stock and other equity securities. Although equity securities have historically generated higher average total returns than fixed-income securities over the long-term, equity securities also have experienced significantly more volatility in those returns and in recent years have significantly under performed relative to fixed-income securities. The equity securities we acquire may fail to appreciate and may decline in value or become worthless and our ability to recover our investment will depend on our portfolio company’s success. Investments in equity securities involve a number of significant risks, including: • any equity investment we make in a portfolio company could be subject to further dilution as a result of the issuance of additional equity interests and to serious risks as a junior security that will be subordinate to all indebtedness or senior securities in the event that the issuer is unable to meet its obligations or becomes subject to a bankruptcy process; • to the extent that the portfolio company requires additional capital and is unable to obtain it, we may not recover our investment in equity securities; and • in some cases, equity securities in which we invest will not pay current dividends, and our ability to realize a return on our investment, as well as to recover our investment, will be dependent on the success of our portfolio companies. Even if the portfolio companies are successful, our ability to realize the value of our investment may be dependent on the occurrence of a liquidity event, such as a public offering or the sale of the portfolio company. It is likely to take a significant amount of time before a liquidity event occurs or we can sell our equity investments. In addition, the equity securities we receive or invest in may be subject to restrictions on resale during periods in which it could be advantageous to sell. There are special risks associated with investing in preferred securities, including: • preferred securities may include provisions that permit the issuer, at its discretion, to defer distributions for a stated period without any adverse consequences to the issuer. If we own a preferred security that is deferring its distributions, we may be required to report income for tax purposes even though we have not received any cash payments in respect of such income; • preferred securities are subordinated with respect to corporate income and liquidation payments, and are therefore subject to greater risk than debt; • preferred securities may be substantially less liquid than many other securities, such as common securities or U.S. government securities; and • preferred security holders generally have no voting rights with respect to the issuing company, subject to limited exceptions. Our investments in foreign debt, including that of emerging market issuers, may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. Although there are limitations on our ability to invest in foreign debt, we may, from time to time, invest in debt of foreign companies, including the debt of emerging market issuers. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Investments in the debt of emerging market issuers may subject us to additional risks such as inflation, wage and price controls, and the imposition of trade barriers. Furthermore, economic conditions in emerging market countries are, to some extent, influenced by economic and securities market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reaction to developments in one country can have effects on the debt of issuers in other countries. Although most of our investments will be U.S. dollar-denominated, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we cannot assure you that we will fully hedge against these risks or that such strategies will be effective. 33 We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in currency exchange rates and market interest rates. Use of these hedging instruments may expose us to counter-party credit risk. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is generally anticipated at an acceptable price. Our Board of Directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive our current operating policies and our strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, financial condition, and value of our common stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to an investment in our shares Investing in our common stock may involve an above average degree of risk. The investments we make in accordance with our investment objectives may result in a higher amount of risk than alternative investment options and volatility or loss of principal. Our investments in portfolio companies may be highly speculative and aggressive, and therefore, an investment in our common stock may not be suitable for someone with lower risk tolerance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in regulatory policies or tax rules, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs; • loss of RIC qualification; • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • departure of our investment adviser’s key personnel; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source. 34 If the Saratoga Transaction is not consummated, provisions of our governing documents and the Maryland General Corporation Law could deter future takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. We are governed by our charter and bylaws, which we refer to as our “governing documents.” Our governing documents and the Maryland General Corporation Law contain provisions that, to the extent that the Saratoga Transaction is not consummated, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a future transaction or change in control of us that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or otherwise be in their best interest. Our charter provides for the classification of our Board of Directors into three classes of directors, serving staggered three-year terms, which may render a change of control of us or removal of our incumbent management more difficult. Furthermore, any and all vacancies on our Board of Directors will be filled generally only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum, and any director elected to fill a vacancy will serve for the remainder of the full term until a successor is elected and qualifies. Our Board of Directors is authorized to create and issue new series of shares, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock into one or more classes or series, including preferred stock and, without stockholder approval, to amend our charter to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock that we have authority to issue, which could have the effect of diluting a stockholder’s ownership interest. Prior to the issuance of shares of stock of each class or series, including any reclassified series, our Board of Directors is required by our governing documents to set the terms, preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption for each class or series of shares of stock. Our governing documents also provide that our Board of Directors has the exclusive power to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of our bylaws, and to make new bylaws. The Maryland General Corporation Law also contains certain provisions that may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, such as: • The Maryland Business Combination Act, which, subject to certain limitations, prohibits certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the common stock or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and, thereafter, imposes special minimum price provisions and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • The Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, which provides that “control shares” of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares of common stock which, when aggregated with other shares of common stock controlled by the stockholder, entitles the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares of common stock. The provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act will not apply, however, if our Board of Directors adopts a resolution that any business combination between us and any other person will be exempt from the provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act. Although our Board of Directors has adopted such a resolution, there can be no assurance that this resolution will not be altered or repealed in whole or in part at any time. If the resolution is altered or repealed, the provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us. As permitted by Maryland law, our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of our common stock. Although our bylaws include such a provision, such a provision may also be amended or eliminated by our Board of Directors at any time in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 35 Item 