RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business We provide a public service regulated by the Mexican government and our flexibility in managing our aeronautical activities is limited by the regulatory environment in which we operate. Our aeronautical fees charged to airlines and passengers are regulated, like most airports in other countries. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, approximately 80.6%, 81.3% and 81.7%, respectively, of our total revenues were earned from regulated services, which are subject to price regulation under our maximum rates. These regulations may limit our flexibility in operating our aeronautical activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. In addition, several of the regulations applicable to our operations that affect our profitability are authorized (as in the case of our master development programs) or established (as in the case of our maximum rates) by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation for five-year terms. Except under limited circumstances, we generally do not have the ability to unilaterally change our obligations (such as the investment obligations under our master development programs or the obligation under our concessions to provide a public service) or increase our maximum rates applicable under those regulations should the passenger traffic or other assumptions on which the regulations were based change during the applicable term. In addition, there can be no assurance that this price regulation system will not be amended in a manner that would cause additional sources of our revenues to be regulated. We cannot predict how the regulations governing our business will be applied. Many of the laws, regulations and instruments that regulate our business were adopted or became effective in 1999, and there is only a limited history that would allow us to predict the impact of these legal requirements on our future operations. In addition, although Mexican law establishes ranges of sanctions that might be imposed should we fail to comply with the terms of one of our concessions, the Mexican Airport Law (Ley de Aeropuertos) and its regulations or other applicable law, we cannot predict the sanctions that are likely to be assessed for a given violation within these ranges. We cannot assure that we will not encounter difficulties in complying with these laws, regulations and instruments. Moreover, when determining our maximum rates for the next five-year period (from 2011 to 2015), the Ministry of Communications and Transportations may be lobbied significantly by different entities (such as, for example, the Mexican Competition Commission and the carriers operating at our airports) to impose rates that reduce our profitability. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing our business, including the rate-setting process and the Mexican Airport Law, will not change in the future or be applied or interpreted in a way that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. On October 1, 2007, the Chairman of the Mexican Federal Competition Commission (Comisión Federal de Competencia, or the “Competition Commission” or COFECO) released an independent report on the competitiveness of Mexico’s airports relative to each other and to international airports. The Competition Commission Chairman’s report made the following recommendations as ways to increase efficiency at Mexican airports: · make economic efficiency a basis of tariff regulation for new concessions; · include income from commercial services as one of the factors in determining tariffs for new concessions; 5 Table of Contents · strengthen the independence of the regulatory agency and increase the transparency of airport regulation; · promote greater efficiency in scheduling at airports with heavy volumes of passenger traffic; · promote greater competition between airports; · eliminate Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares’ (“ASA”) role as exclusive fuel service provider; · eliminate barriers to entry for taxi providers at airports; and · be mindful of vertical integration among airports and airlines. The regulations pursuant to which the maximum rates applicable to our aeronautical revenues are established do not guarantee that our consolidated results of operations, or that the results of operations of any airport, will be profitable. The regulations applicable to our aeronautical activities establish an annual maximum rate for each airport, which is the maximum annual amount of revenues per workload unit (which is equal to one terminal passenger or 100 kilograms (220 pounds) of cargo) that we may earn at that airport from services subject to price regulation. The maximum rates for our airports have been determined by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation for each year through December 31, 2010. In December 2005, the Ministry of Communications and Transportation determined, based on the terms of our concessions, the maximum rates for our airports from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2010. Under the terms of our concessions, there is no guarantee that the results of operations of any airport will be profitable. Our concessions provide that an airport’s maximum rates will be adjusted periodically for inflation (determined by reference to the Mexican producer price index, excluding fuel). Although we are entitled to request additional adjustments to an airport’s maximum rates under certain circumstances including, among others, required capital investments not foreseen in the master development programs, decreases in capital investments attributable to Mexican economy-related passenger traffic decreases or modifications of the concession tax payable by us to the Mexican government, our concessions provide that such a request will be approved only if the Ministry of Communications and Transportation determines that certain limited events specified in our concessions have occurred. Therefore, there can be no assurance that any such request would be granted. If a request to increase an airport’s maximum rates is not granted, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, and the value of Series B shares and ADSs could decline. If we exceed the maximum rate at any airport at the end of any year, we could be subject to sanctions. Historically, we have set the prices we charge for aeronautical services at each airport in order to come as close as possible to its authorized maximum rate for that airport in any given year. For example, in 2007, our revenues subject to maximum rate regulation represented approximately 86.3% of the amounts we were entitled to earn under the maximum rates for all of our airports. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish prices in the future that allow us to collect substantially all of the revenue we are entitled to earn from services subject to price regulation. The specific prices we charge for aeronautical services are determined based on various factors, including projections of passenger traffic volumes, the Mexican producer price index (excluding fuel) and the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar. These variables are outside of our control. Our projections could differ from the applicable actual data, and, if these differences occur at the end of any year, they could cause us to exceed the maximum rate at any one or more of ours airports during that year. 6 Table of Contents If we exceed the maximum rate at any airport at the end of any year, the Ministry of Communications and Transportation may assess a fine and may reduce the maximum rate at that airport in the subsequent year. The imposition of sanctions for violations of certain terms of a concession, including for exceeding an airport’s maximum rate, can result in termination of the concession if the relevant term has been violated and sanctions have been imposed at least three times. In the event that any one of our concessions is terminated, our other concessions may also be terminated. As of today, no sanctions have been imposed for any reason with respect to any of our concessions. The Mexican government may terminate or reacquire our concessions under various circumstances, some of which are beyond our control. Our concessions are our principal assets, and we would be unable to continue operations without them. A concession may be revoked by the Mexican government for certain prescribed reasons, including failure to comply with our master development programs, a temporary or permanent halt in our operations, actions affecting the operations of other concession holders in Mexico, failure to pay damages resulting from our operations, exceeding our maximum rates or failure to comply with any other material term of our concessions. Violations of certain terms of a concession (including violations for exceeding the applicable maximum rate) can result in revocation of a concession only if sanctions have been imposed for violations of the relevant term at least three times. Violations of other terms of a concession can result in the immediate termination of the concession. Our concessions may also be terminated upon our bankruptcy or insolvency. Violations of the Mexican Airport Law or its regulation could result in similar sanctions. In the event that any one of our concessions is terminated, our other concessions may also be terminated. For a discussion of events that may lead to a termination of a concession, see “Item 