RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We require significant capital to fund our obligations under our forward purchase commitments. As of December 31, 2013, we had 44 new aircraft on order, which included three A330 aircraft, five A320neo aircraft, nine A350 aircraft, 20 Boeing 737 aircraft (including five purchase rights as part of a Boeing order), and seven Boeing 787 aircraft. If we complete the ILFC Transaction, we expect to have 379 new aircraft on order (as of December 31, 2013). In order to meet our commitments under our forward purchase contracts (and if the ILFC Transaction is completed, under ILFC's forward purchase contracts), and to maintain an adequate level of unrestricted cash, we will need to raise additional funds through a combination of accessing committed debt facilities and securing additional financing for pre-delivery and final delivery payment obligations and we may need to raise additional funds through selling aircraft or other aircraft investments, including participations in our joint ventures, and if necessary, generating proceeds from potential capital market transactions. Our typical sources of funding may not be sufficient to meet our operating requirements and fund our forward purchase commitments, and we may be required to raise additional capital through the issuance of new equity or equity-linked securities. If we issue new equity or equity-linked securities, the percentage ownership of our then current shareholders would be diluted. Any newly issued equity or equity-linked securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our ordinary shares. Our business model depends on the continual re-leasing of our aircraft when current leases expire and the leasing of new aircraft on order, and we may not be able to do so on favorable terms, if at all. Our business model depends on the continual re-leasing of our aircraft when our current leases expire in order to generate sufficient revenues to finance our operations and pay our debt service obligations. Between December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2016, aircraft leases accounting for 30.1% of our lease revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 are scheduled to expire, and the aircraft subject to those leases that we do not sell prior to lease termination will need to be re-leased or the current leases will need to be extended. In 2013, we generated $24.0 million of revenues from leases that are scheduled to expire in 2014, $98.5 million of revenues from leases that are scheduled to expire in 2015 and $124.7 million of revenues from leases that are scheduled to expire in 2016. Our ability to re-lease our existing aircraft or lease a new aircraft prior to delivery will depend on general market and competitive conditions at the time the leases expire or prior to delivery. If we are unable to re-lease an existing aircraft or lease a new aircraft prior to delivery on acceptable terms, our lease revenue and margin may decline and we may need to sell the aircraft at unfavorable prices to provide adequate funds for our debt service obligations and to otherwise finance our operations. Our financial condition is dependent, in part, on the financial strength of our lessees; lessee defaults, bankruptcies and other credit problems could adversely affect our financial results. Our financial condition depends on the financial strength of our lessees, our ability to appropriately assess the credit risk of our lessees and the ability of lessees to perform under our leases. In 2013, we generated the primary portion of our revenue from leases to the aviation industry, and as a result, we are indirectly affected by all the risks facing airlines today. The ability of our lessees to perform their obligations under our leases will depend primarily on the lessee's financial condition and cash flow, which may be affected by factors outside our control, including: •passenger air travel and air cargo rates; •passenger air travel and air cargo demand; •competition; 5 Table of Contents •economic conditions and currency fluctuations in the countries and regions in which the lessee operates; •the price and availability of jet fuel; •availability and cost of financing; •fare levels; •geopolitical and other events, including war, acts of terrorism, outbreaks of epidemic diseases and natural disasters; •increases in operating costs, including labor costs and other general economic conditions affecting our lessees' operations; •labor difficulties; •governmental regulation and associated fees affecting the air transportation business; and •environmental regulations, including, but not limited to, restrictions on carbon emissions. Generally, airlines with high financial leverage are more likely than airlines with stronger balance sheets to seek operating leases. As a result, most of our existing lessees are not rated investment grade by the principal U.S. rating agencies and may suffer liquidity problems, and, at any point in time, may experience lease payment difficulties or be significantly in arrears in their obligations under our leases. Some lessees encountering financial difficulties may seek a reduction in their lease rates or other concessions, such as a decrease in their contribution toward maintenance obligations. Further or future downturns in the aviation industry could greatly exacerbate the weakened financial condition and liquidity problems of some of our lessees and further increase the risk of delayed, missed or reduced rental payments. We may not correctly assess the credit risk of each lessee or charge lease rates which correctly reflect related risks, and our lessees may not be able to continue to meet their financial and other obligations under our leases in the future. A delayed, missed or reduced rental payment from a lessee decreases our revenues and cash flow. Our default levels may increase over time if economic conditions deteriorate. If lessees of a significant number of our aircraft default on their leases, our financial results will be adversely affected. If our lessees encounter financial difficulties and we decide to restructure our leases, the restructuring would likely result in less favorable leases which could adversely affect our financial results. If a lessee is late in making payments, fails to make payments in full or in part under a lease or has advised us that it will fail to make payments in full or in part under a lease in the future, we may elect or be required to restructure the lease, which could result in less favorable terms or termination of a lease without receiving all or any of the past due amounts. We may be unable to agree upon acceptable terms for some or all of the requested restructurings and as a result may be forced to exercise our remedies under those leases. If we, in the exercise of our remedies, repossess an aircraft, we may not be able to re-lease the aircraft promptly at favorable rates, if at all. We expect that additional restructurings and/or repossessions with some lessees will occur in the future. If additional repossessions occur we will incur significant costs and expenses that are unlikely to be recouped and terms and conditions of possible lease restructurings may result in a significant reduction of lease revenue, all of which may adversely affect our financial results. We have incurred costs resulting from lessee defaults and may incur similar costs in the future. We may also suffer other adverse consequences as a result of a lessee default and the related termination of the lease and repossession of the related aircraft. Our rights upon a lessee default vary significantly depending upon the jurisdiction and the applicable law, including the need to obtain a 6 Table of Contents court order for repossession of the aircraft and/or consents for de-registration or re-export of the aircraft. When a defaulting lessee is in bankruptcy, protective administration, insolvency or similar proceedings, additional limitations may apply. Certain jurisdictions give rights to the trustee in bankruptcy or a similar officer to assume or reject the lease or to assign it to a third party, or entitle the lessee or another third party to retain possession of the aircraft without paying lease rentals or performing all or some of the obligations under the relevant lease. In addition, certain of our lessees are owned in whole, or in part, by government-related entities, which could complicate our efforts to repossess our aircraft in that government's jurisdiction. Accordingly, we may be delayed in, or prevented from, enforcing certain of our rights under a lease and in re-leasing the affected aircraft. If we repossess an aircraft, we will not necessarily be able to export or de-register and profitably redeploy the aircraft. For instance, where a lessee or other operator flies only domestic routes in the jurisdiction in which the aircraft is registered, repossession may be more difficult, especially if the jurisdiction permits the lessee or the other operator to resist de-registration. We may also incur significant costs in retrieving or recreating aircraft records required for registration of the aircraft, and in obtaining the certificate of airworthiness for an aircraft. If we incur significant costs repossessing our aircraft, are delayed in repossessing our aircraft or are unable to obtain possession of our aircraft as a result of lessee defaults, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. During 2013, two of our lessees, leasing three of our aircraft, defaulted. The total cost of these defaults in terms of lost revenue during off-lease periods, impairments and related technical costs, net of the release of deposits and maintenance reserves, totaled $10.5 million during 2013. As a result of the current economic environment, the highly competitive nature of the airline industry and increasing fuel prices, additional lessees might default on their lease obligations or file for bankruptcy in the future. If we are required to repossess an aircraft they lease, we may be required to incur significant unexpected costs. Those costs include legal and other expenses of court or other governmental proceedings, including the cost of posting security bonds or letters of credit necessary to effect repossession of the aircraft, particularly if the lessee is contesting the proceedings or is in bankruptcy. In addition, during these proceedings the relevant aircraft is not generating revenue. We may also incur substantial maintenance, refurbishment or repair costs that a defaulting lessee has failed to pay and that are necessary to put the aircraft in suitable condition for re-lease or sale. It may also be necessary to pay off liens, taxes and other governmental charges on the aircraft to obtain clear possession and to remarket the aircraft effectively, including, in some cases, liens that the lessee may have incurred in connection with the operation of its other aircraft. We may also incur other costs in connection with the physical possession of the aircraft. The business of leasing, financing and selling aircraft has historically experienced prolonged periods of oversupply during which lease rates and aircraft values, relating particularly to older and less fuel efficient aircraft, have declined, and any future oversupply could materially and adversely affect our financial results. In the past, the business of leasing, financing and selling aircraft has experienced prolonged periods of equipment shortages and oversupply. Over recent years, the business of leasing, financing and selling aircraft has experienced a market that had been characterized by an oversupply of certain older, less fuel-efficient aircraft. The oversupply of a specific type of aircraft typically depresses the lease rates for, and the value of, that type of aircraft. The supply and demand for aircraft is affected by various cyclical and non-cyclical factors that are outside of our control, including: •passenger and air cargo demand; •fuel costs and general economic conditions; •geopolitical events, including war, prolonged armed conflict and acts of terrorism; •outbreaks of communicable diseases and natural disasters; 7 Table of Contents •governmental regulation; •interest rates; •the availability and cost of financing; •airline restructurings and bankruptcies; •manufacturer production levels and technological innovation; •manufacturers merging or exiting the industry or ceasing to produce aircraft types; •retirement and obsolescence of aircraft models; •increases in production rates from manufacturers; •reintroduction into service of aircraft previously in storage; and •airport and air traffic control infrastructure constraints. During recent years, the airline industry has committed to a significant number of aircraft deliveries through order placements with manufacturers. In response, aircraft manufacturers have raised their production output. The increase in these production levels could result in an oversupply of aircraft if growth in projected airline traffic does not meet airline industry expectations. The value and lease rates of our aircraft could decline and this would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Aircraft values and lease rates have historically experienced sharp decreases due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, decreases in passenger air travel and air cargo demand, increases in fuel costs, government regulation and increases in interest rates. In addition to factors linked to the aviation industry generally, many other factors may affect the value and lease rates of our aircraft, including: •the particular maintenance, operating history and documentary records of the aircraft; •the number of operators using that type of aircraft; •the regulatory authority under which the aircraft is operated; •whether the aircraft is subject to a lease and, if so, whether the lease terms are favorable to the lessor; •the age of our aircraft; •any renegotiation of a lease on less favorable terms; •the negotiability of clear title free from mechanics liens and encumbrances; •any regulatory and legal requirements that must be satisfied before the aircraft can be purchased, sold or re-leased; •decrease in the credit-worthiness of our lessees; •compatibility of our aircraft configurations or specifications with other aircraft owned by operators of that type; •comparative value based on newly manufactured competitive aircraft; and •the availability of spare parts. Any decrease in the value and lease rates of aircraft which may result from the above factors or other factors not mentioned above, may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 8 Table of Contents Changes in demand and supply of aircraft could depress lease rates and the value of our aircraft portfolio. During the recent global recession, the airline industry substantially curtailed capacity. As traffic demand recovered from late 2009, the continued capacity control resulted in a substantial recovery in financial performance of the airline industry. Although year-on-year growth rates have begun to normalize, the gradual increase in production rates by aircraft manufacturers may increase the risk of renewed overcapacity in the market. The potential for deteriorating financial performance of the airline industry as a result of capacity growth exceeding traffic demand growth could result in lower demand for our aircraft. As a result, the values and lease rates for our aircraft might be negatively impacted. We were required to write-down the value of some of our assets during 2011, 2012 and 2013, and if economic conditions worsen again or further worsen, we may be required to make additional write-downs. We test long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets' carrying amounts are not recoverable from their undiscounted cash flows. We performed impairment analyses of our long-lived assets during the year 2013 and as of December 31, 2013. In these impairment analyses, we focused on aircraft older than 15 years, since the cash flows supporting our carrying values of those aircraft are more dependent upon current lease contracts, which leases are more sensitive to weakness in the global economic environment. In addition, we believe that residual values of older aircraft are more exposed to non-recoverable declines in value in the current economic environment. In the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized an aggregated impairment charge of $26.2 million in income from continuing operations. The impairment recognized related to two older A319 aircraft, two Boeing 737-700 aircraft and two older Boeing 747 freighters. The impairment on the Boeing 737-700 aircraft was triggered by the release of $9.9 million of maintenance reserve upon redelivery whereas the impairment on the two Boeing 747 freighters was triggered by the receipt of $17.7 million end-of-lease payments. The impairment on the two older A319 aircraft was the result of our annual assessment whereby we concluded that the net book values were no longer supportable based on the latest cash flow estimates including residual value proceeds. In the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012, we recognized aggregate impairment charges of $15.6 million and $12.6 million, respectively. If conditions significantly worsen again uncertainties may cause a potential adverse impact on our business. In particular, our estimates and assumptions regarding forecasted cash flows from our long-lived assets would need to be reassessed. This includes the duration of the economic downturn along with the timing and strength of the pending recovery, both of which are important variables for purposes of our long-lived asset impairment tests. Any of our assumptions may prove to be inaccurate which could adversely impact forecasted cash flows of certain long-lived assets, especially for aircraft older than 15 years. If so, it is possible that an impairment may be triggered for other long-lived assets in 2014 and that any such impairment amounts may be material. As of December 31, 2013, 13 aircraft were older than 15 years of age, with a net book value of $206.8 million which represented 2.6% of our total flight equipment held for operating lease. Our limited control over our joint ventures may delay or prevent us from implementing our business strategy which may adversely affect our financial results. We are currently joint venture partners in several joint ventures. Under the joint venture agreements, we share control over significant decisions with our joint venture partners. Since we have limited control over our joint ventures and may not be able to exercise control over any future joint venture, we may not be able to require our joint ventures to take actions that we believe are necessary to implement our business strategy. Accordingly, this limited control could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 9 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our financial results. We use floating rate debt to finance the acquisition of a significant portion of our aircraft and engines. As of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, we had $3.5 billion and $3.9 billion, respectively, of floating rate indebtedness outstanding. We incurred floating rate interest expense of $88.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2013. If interest rates increase, we would be obligated to make higher interest payments to our lenders. Our practice has been to protect ourselves against interest rate increases on a portion of our floating-rate liabilities by entering into derivative contracts, such as interest rate caps and interest rate swaps. We remain exposed, however, to changes in interest rates to the extent that our derivative contracts are not correlated to our financial liabilities (Please refer to pages 107-108 for details regarding our interest rate derivatives). In addition, we are exposed to the credit risk that the counter parties to our derivative contracts will default in their obligations. If we incur significant fixed rate debt in the future, increased interest rates prevailing in the market at the time of the incurrence or refinancing of such debt will also increase our interest expense. Decreases in interest rates may also adversely affect our interest revenue on cash deposits as well as lease revenues generated from leases with lease rates tied to floating interest rates. In the year ended December 31, 2013, 12.9% of our basic lease revenue was attributable to leases with lease rates tied to floating interest rates. Therefore, if interest rates were to decrease, our lease revenue would decrease. In addition, since our fixed rate leases are based, in part, on prevailing interest rates at the time we enter into the lease, if interest rates decrease, new fixed rate leases we enter into may be at lower lease rates and our lease revenue will be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2013, if interest rates were to increase by 1%, we would expect to incur an increase in interest expense on our floating rate indebtedness of approximately $34.2 million on an annualized basis, including the offsetting benefits of interest rate caps and swaps currently in effect, which would be partially offset by an increase in our interest revenue of approximately $3.0 million and lease revenue by approximately $8.0 million on an annualized basis. A decrease in interest rates would result in a saving in our interest expense, which would be partially offset by a reduction in the interest revenue and lease revenue. Our level of indebtedness requires significant debt service payments. As of December 31, 2013, our consolidated indebtedness was $6.2 billion and represented 66% of our total assets as of that date and our interest expense (including the impact of hedging activities) was $226.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Due to the capital intensive nature of our business and our strategy of expanding our aircraft portfolio, we expect that we will incur additional indebtedness in the future and continue to maintain these levels of indebtedness. If market conditions worsen and precipitate further declines in aircraft- and aviation-related markets, our operations may not generate sufficient cash to service our debt which will have a material adverse impact on us. Our level of indebtedness: •causes a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and therefore not available to fund our operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; •restricts the ability of some of our subsidiaries and joint ventures to make distributions to us; •may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; •may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and •may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. 10 Table of Contents In addition, if the ILFC Transaction is completed, we will assume ILFC's debt of approximately $21 billion and will incur additional debt, including approximately $3.0 billion of debt to finance the ILFC Transaction, which would further exacerbate the risks outlined above. We are indirectly subject to many of the economic and political risks associated with emerging markets, which could adversely affect our financial results. A significant number of our aircraft are leased to airlines in emerging market countries. As of December 31, 2013, we leased 47.1% of our aircraft, weighted by net book value, to airlines in emerging market countries. The emerging markets in which our aircraft are operated are Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, China, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Mexico, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Republic of Korea, Russia, Slovenia, Taiwan, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates and Vietnam. We also may lease aircraft to airlines in other emerging market countries in the future. Emerging market countries have less-developed economies that are more vulnerable to economic and political problems and may experience significant fluctuations in gross domestic product, interest rates and currency exchange rates, as well as civil disturbances, government instability, nationalization and expropriation of private assets and the imposition of taxes or other charges by government authorities. The occurrence of any of these events in markets served by our lessees and the resulting economic instability that may arise could adversely affect the value of our ownership interest in aircraft subject to lease in such countries, or the ability of our lessees that operate in these markets to meet their lease obligations. As a result, lessees that operate in emerging market countries may be more likely to default than lessees that operate in developed countries. In addition, legal systems in emerging market countries may be less developed, which could make it more difficult for us to enforce our legal rights in such countries. For these and other reasons, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected by economic and political developments in emerging market countries. We are exposed to significant regional political and economic risks due to the concentration of our lessees in certain geographical regions which could adversely affect our financial results. Through our lessees, we are exposed to local economic and political conditions. Such adverse economic and political conditions include additional regulation or, in extreme cases, requisition of our aircraft. The effect of these conditions on payments to us will be more or less pronounced, depending on the concentration of lessees in the region with adverse conditions. The airline industry is highly sensitive to general economic conditions. A recession or other worsening of economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the ability of our lessees to meet their financial and other obligations under our leases. Furthermore a disruption in the financial markets, terrorist attacks, high fuel prices or a weak local currency may increase the adverse impact on our lessees. Lease rental revenues from lessees based in Europe accounted for 35% of our lease revenues in 2013. Commercial airlines in Europe face, and can be expected to continue to face, increased competitive pressures, in part as a result of the deregulation of the airline industry by the European Union and the resulting expansion of low-cost carriers. European countries generally have relatively strict environmental regulations and traffic constraints that can restrict operational flexibility and decrease aircraft productivity, which could significantly increase operating costs of all aircraft, including our aircraft, thereby adversely affecting our lessees According to International Air Transport Association ("IATA"), airline passenger traffic in Europe expanded by 3.8% and freight traffic expanded by 1.8% in 2013 compared to 2012. The risk of another economic recession in Europe could adversely impact the financial health of some European airlines including our lessees. A reduction in traffic growth in Europe could lower demand and lease rates and our ability to lease and release our aircraft in Europe. 11 Table of Contents Lease rental revenues from lessees based in Asia/Pacific/Russia accounted for 32% of our lease revenues in 2013. In recent periods, Asia has been one of the highest growth areas for airline passenger traffic and freight traffic, which has resulted in strong demand for aircraft from the region. According to IATA, Asian/Pacific airline passenger traffic in 2013 increased by 7.1% compared to 2012. Many airlines in the Asia Pacific region generate a relatively large portion of their revenues from cargo traffic, which contracted regionally by 1% in 2013 and expanded just 1.4% globally in 2013, while global freight capacity increased 2.6%. As a result, if the downturn in the air freight market persists, it could adversely impact individual airline financial performance, including that of our lessees and it could adversely impact cargo aircraft demand and lease rates and our ability to lease and release our freighter aircraft. Lease rental revenues from lessees based in North America, accounted for 18% of our lease revenues in 2013. According to IATA, passenger traffic increased by 2.3% compared to 2012, while freight traffic contracted by 0.4% in 2013. The lack of growth in the North American market has been offset by capacity discipline among North American airlines, which increased by only 2% in 2013. The order backlog for North American carriers, however, has increased substantially in recent years, creating the potential for accelerated capacity growth. Continuing slow traffic growth in North America in combination with accelerated capacity growth in 2014 could adversely affect the financial health of some airlines in the region, including our lessees, which also would adversely impact aircraft demand and lease rates and our ability to lease and release our aircraft. Lease rental revenues from lessees based in Latin America accounted for 11% of our lease revenues in 2013. Latin American traffic was up 6.3% during 2013, supported by strong growth in Chile, Colombia and Peru, according to IATA. Growth in Latin America was constricted, however, in comparison to traffic growth in 2012, by economic adversity and subsequent subdued traffic growth in Brazil, where domestic traffic only expanded by 0.8%, causing Brazilian airlines to cut capacity by 3.3% in 2013. Continued adverse economic conditions in Brazil or weakening economic conditions in other Latin American countries could still negatively impact the financial health of some Latin American airlines, including our lessees. Lease rental revenues from lessees based in Africa/Middle East accounted for 4% of our lease revenues in 2013. In recent years the airline industry in the Middle East experienced tremendous growth as a result of high oil prices, strong economic growth, significant investment in attracting tourism and gradual deregulation of the airline industry. Rapid traffic growth in the Middle East continued in 2013 with passenger traffic growing 11.4% year on year while cargo traffic increased by 12.8% according to IATA. During 2013, the 12% passenger capacity increase in the Middle East already exceeded traffic growth. Due to the region's substantial aircraft order backlog, continued high-paced growth is required to prevent overcapacity. As such the scheduled capacity growth committed by airlines in this region through aircraft orders could have an adverse impact on the financial health of some Middle Eastern airlines, including our lessees. If we, or our lessees, fail to maintain our aircraft, their value may decline and we may not be able to lease or re-lease our aircraft at favorable rates, if at all, which would adversely affect our financial results. We may be exposed to increased maintenance costs for our leased aircraft associated with a lessee's failure to properly maintain the aircraft or pay supplemental maintenance rent. If an aircraft is not properly maintained, its market value may decline which would result in lower revenues from its lease or sale. Under our leases, our lessees are primarily responsible for maintaining the aircraft and complying with all governmental requirements applicable to the lessee and the aircraft, including operational, maintenance, government agency oversight, registration requirements and airworthiness directives. Although we require many of our lessees to pay us a supplemental maintenance rent, failure of a lessee to perform required maintenance during the term of a lease could result in a decrease in value of an aircraft, an inability to re-lease an aircraft at favorable rates, if at all, or a potential 12 Table of Contents grounding of an aircraft. Maintenance failures by a lessee would also likely require us to incur maintenance and modification costs upon the termination of the applicable lease, which could be substantial, to restore the aircraft to an acceptable condition prior to sale or re-leasing. Supplemental maintenance rent paid by our lessees may not be sufficient to fund our maintenance costs. Our lessees' failure to meet their obligations to pay supplemental maintenance rent or perform required scheduled maintenance or our inability to maintain our aircraft may materially and adversely affect our financial results. Strong competition from other aircraft lessors could adversely affect our financial results. The aircraft leasing industry is highly competitive. Our competition is comprised of major aircraft leasing companies including GE Capital Aviation Services ("GECAS"), ILFC, CIT Aerospace, Aviation Capital Group, Air Lease Corporation, SMBC Aviation Capital, AWAS Aviation Capital Limited, FLY Leasing Limited, BOC Aviation and AirCastle Ltd. On December 16, 2013, we agreed to acquire ILFC from AIG, with the acquisition subject to receipt of necessary regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. In addition, we may encounter competition from other entities such as: •airlines; •aircraft manufacturers; •financial institutions, including those seeking to dispose of re-possessed aircraft at distressed prices; •aircraft brokers; •public and private partnerships, investors and funds with more capital to invest in aircraft and engines; and •other aircraft leasing companies that we do not currently consider our major competitors. Some of these competitors currently have greater operating and financial resources than we. We may not always be able to compete successfully with such competitors and other entities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Aircraft have limited economically useful lives and depreciate over time, which can adversely affect our financial condition. As our aircraft age, they will depreciate and generally the aircraft will generate lower revenues and cash flows. As of December 31, 2013, 2.6% of our aircraft portfolio by net book value was older than 15 years. If we do not replace our older depreciated aircraft with newer aircraft, our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and cash flows will decline. This risk would increase if the ILFC Transaction is completed because ILFC has an older aircraft portfolio. In addition, if we dispose of an aircraft for a price that is less than the depreciated book value of the aircraft on our balance sheet, we will recognize a loss on the sale. The advent of superior aircraft and engine technology or the introduction of a new line of aircraft could cause our existing aircraft portfolio to become outdated and therefore less desirable, which could adversely affect our financial results. As manufacturers introduce technological innovations and new types of aircraft and engines, some of the aircraft and engines in our aircraft portfolio may become less desirable to potential lessees. In addition, the imposition of increased regulation regarding stringent noise or emissions restrictions may make some of our aircraft and engines less desirable in the marketplace. Any of these risks may 13 Table of Contents adversely affect our ability to lease or sell our aircraft on favorable terms, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. New aircraft manufacturers, such as Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation in Japan, Irkut Sukhoi Company (JSC) in Russia and Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, Ltd. in China could someday produce aircraft that compete with current offerings from Airbus, ATR, Boeing, Bombardier and Embraer. Additionally, new manufacturers may develop aircraft that compete with established aircraft types from Boeing and Airbus, and the new products could put downward price pressure on and decrease the marketability for aircraft from Boeing and Airbus. New aircraft types that are introduced into the market could be more attractive for the target lessees of our aircraft. Additionally, the market may not be able to absorb the scheduled production increases by Airbus and Boeing. If the additional capacity scheduled to be produced by the manufacturers exceeds the additional future requirement for capacity the resultant overcapacity could have a negative effect on aircraft values and lease rates. Also the financial community would be required to increase their lending volume to match the increase in aircraft production. As a result of the increased funding requirement for new deliveries, the cost of lending or the ability to obtain debt could be negatively affected if lending capacity does not increase in line with the increased aircraft production. Airbus and Boeing have launched new aircraft types, which could decrease the value and lease rates of aircraft we own. Airbus and Boeing have launched several new aircraft types in recent years, including the Boeing 787 family, the Boeing 737 MAX family, the Boeing 777X, the Airbus A320neo family and the Airbus A350 family. The first variant of the Boeing 787 was introduced in 2011, with the other new aircraft types scheduled to be introduced into service between 2014 and 2020. The availability of these new aircraft types may have an adverse effect on the residual value and future lease rates of current technology aircraft. The development of these new aircraft could decrease the desirability of current technology aircraft and thereby increase the supply of current technology aircraft in the marketplace. This increase in supply could, in turn, reduce both future residual values and lease rates for these types of aircraft. If our lessees' insurance coverage is insufficient, it could adversely affect our financial results. While we do not directly control the operation of any of our aircraft, by virtue of holding title to aircraft, directly or indirectly, in certain jurisdictions around the world, we could be held strictly liable for losses resulting from the operation of our aircraft, or may be held liable for those losses on other legal theories. We require our lessees to obtain specified levels of insurance and indemnify us for, and insure against, liabilities arising out of their use and operation of the aircraft. Following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, however, aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to airlines for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events. At the same time, aviation insurers significantly increased the premiums for third party war risk and terrorism liability insurance and coverage in general. As a result, the amount of third party war risk and terrorism liability insurance that is commercially available at any time may be below the amount stipulated in our leases. Our lessees' insurance or other coverage may not be sufficient to cover all claims that may be asserted against us arising from the operation of our aircraft by our lessees. Inadequate insurance coverage or default by lessees in fulfilling their indemnification or insurance obligations will reduce the insurance proceeds that would be received by us in the event we are sued and are required to make payments to claimants, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. 14 Table of Contents Our lessee insurance coverage is dependent on the financial condition of insurance companies. If insurance companies are unable to meet their obligations, it could adversely impact our financial results. If our lessees fail to appropriately discharge aircraft liens, we may be obligated to pay to discharge the aircraft liens, which could adversely affect our financial results. In the normal course of their business, our lessees are likely to incur aircraft and engine liens that secure the payment of airport fees and taxes, custom duties, air navigation charges, including charges imposed by Eurocontrol, landing charges, crew wages, repairer's charges, salvage or other liens that may attach to our aircraft. These liens may secure substantial sums that may, in certain jurisdictions or for certain types of liens, particularly liens on entire fleets of aircraft, exceed the value of the particular aircraft to which the liens have attached. Aircraft may also be subject to mechanical liens as a result of routine maintenance performed by third parties on behalf of our customers. Although the financial obligations relating to these liens are the responsibility of our lessees, if they fail to fulfill their obligations, the liens may attach to our aircraft and ultimately become our responsibility. In some jurisdictions, aircraft and engine liens may give the holder thereof the right to detain or, in limited cases, sell or cause the forfeiture of the aircraft. Until they are discharged, these liens could impair our ability to repossess, re-lease or sell our aircraft or engines. Our lessees may not comply with their obligations under their leases to discharge aircraft liens arising during the terms of their leases. If they do not, we may find it necessary to pay the claims secured by such aircraft liens in order to repossess the aircraft. Such payments would materially and adversely affect our financial results. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and customers who utilize our fleet management services, which may adversely affect our business interests. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and third-party aircraft owners, financiers and operating lessors who hire us to perform fleet management services such as leasing, re-leasing, lease management and sales services. Our servicing contracts require that we act in good faith and not unreasonably discriminate against serviced aircraft in favor of our owned aircraft. Nevertheless, competing with our fleet management customers may result in strained relationships with these customers, which may adversely affect our business interests. In certain countries, an engine affixed to an aircraft may become an accession to the aircraft and we may not be able to exercise our ownership rights over the engine. In some jurisdictions, an engine affixed to an aircraft may become an accession to the aircraft, so that the ownership rights of the owner of the aircraft supersede the ownership rights of the owner of the engine. If an aircraft is security for the owner's obligations to a third party, the security interest in the aircraft may supersede our rights as owner of the engine. This legal principle could limit our ability to repossess an engine in the event of an engine lease default while the aircraft with our engine installed remains in such jurisdiction. We would suffer a substantial loss if we were not able to repossess engines leased to lessees in these jurisdictions, which would materially and adversely affect our financial results. As of December 31, 2013, less than 0.5% of our flight equipment held for operating leases, by net book value, related to engines available for lease on a standalone basis. 15 Table of Contents Failure to obtain certain required licenses, certificates and approvals could adversely affect our ability to re-lease or sell aircraft, our ability to perform maintenance services or to provide cash management services, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Under our leases, we may be required in some instances to obtain specific licenses, consents or approvals for different aspects of the leases. These required items include consents from governmental or regulatory authorities for certain payments under the leases and for the import, re-export or deregistration of the aircraft. Subsequent changes in applicable law or administrative practice may increase such requirements. In addition, a governmental consent, once given, might be withdrawn. Furthermore, consents needed in connection with future re-leasing or sale of an aircraft may not be forthcoming. To perform some of our cash management services and insurance services from Ireland under our management arrangements with our joint ventures and securitization entities, we require a license from the Irish regulatory authorities, which we have obtained. A failure to maintain these licenses or certificates or obtain any required license or certificate, consent or approval, or the occurrence of any of the foregoing events, could adversely affect our ability to provide qualifying services or re-lease or sell our aircraft, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various risks and requirements associated with transacting business in foreign countries. Our international operations expose us to trade and economic sanctions and other restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments or organizations. The U.S. Departments of Justice, Commerce, State and Treasury and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of economic sanctions laws, export control laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), and other federal statutes and regulations, including those established by the Office of Foreign Asset Control ("OFAC"). Under these laws and regulations, the government may require export licenses, may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs, and may subject us to fines, penalties and other sanctions. A violation of these laws or regulations could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. We have implemented and maintain in effect policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance by us, our subsidiaries and our directors, officers, employees, consultants and agents with respect to FCPA, OFAC and other export control, anti-corruption, anti-terrorism and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. We cannot assure you, however, that our directors, officers, employees, consultants and agents will not engage in conduct for which we may be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA, OFAC and other export control, anti-corruption, anti-terrorism and anti-money laundering laws and regulations may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to operate in some countries is restricted by foreign regulations and controls on investments. Many countries restrict or control foreign investments to varying degrees, and additional or different restrictions or policies adverse to us may be imposed in the future. These restrictions and controls have limited, and may in the future restrict or preclude, our investment in joint ventures or the acquisition of businesses outside of the United States, or may increase the cost to us of entering into such transactions. Various governments, particularly in the Asia/Pacific region, require governmental approval before foreign persons may make investments in domestic businesses and also limit the extent of any such investments. Furthermore, various governments may require governmental approval for the repatriation of capital by, or the payment of dividends to, foreign investors. Restrictive policies regarding foreign investments may increase our costs of pursuing growth opportunities in foreign jurisdictions, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. 16 Table of Contents There is a limited number of aircraft and engine manufacturers and the failure of any manufacturer to meet its aircraft and engine delivery obligations to us could adversely affect our financial results. The supply of commercial jet aircraft is dominated by two airframe manufacturers, Boeing and Airbus, and three engine manufacturers, GE Aircraft Engines, Rolls Royce plc and Pratt & Whitney. As a result, we are dependent on these manufacturers' success in remaining financially stable, producing products and related components which meet the airlines' demands and fulfilling their contractual obligations to us. Should the manufacturers fail to respond appropriately to changes in the market environment or fail to fulfill their contractual obligations, we may experience: •missed or late delivery of aircraft and engines ordered by us and an inability to meet our contractual obligations to our customers, resulting in lost or delayed revenues, lower growth rates and strained customer relationships; •an inability to acquire aircraft and engines and related components on terms which will allow us to lease those aircraft and engines to customers at a profit, resulting in lower growth rates or a contraction in our aircraft portfolio; •a market environment with too many aircraft and engines available, creating downward pressure on demand for the aircraft and engines in our fleet and reduced market lease rates and sale prices; •poor customer support and/or reputational damage from the manufacturers of aircraft, engines and components resulting in reduced demand for a particular manufacturer's product, creating downward pressure on demand for those aircraft and engines in our fleet and reduced market lease rates and sale prices for those aircraft and engines; and •reduction in our competitiveness due to deep discounting by the manufacturers, which may lead to reduced market lease rates and sale prices and may affect our ability to remarket or sell some of the aircraft and engines in our portfolio. We and our customers are subject to various environmental regulations that may have an adverse impact on our financial results. Governmental regulations regarding aircraft and engine noise and emissions levels apply based on where the relevant airframe is registered, and where the aircraft is operated. For example, jurisdictions throughout the world have adopted noise regulations which require all aircraft to comply with noise level standards. In addition, the United States and the International Civil Aviation Organization, or ICAO, have adopted a more stringent set of standards for noise levels which apply to engines manufactured or certified beginning in 2006. Currently, United States regulations do not require any phase-out of aircraft that qualify with the older standards, but the European Union has established a framework for the imposition of operating limitations on aircraft that do not comply with the newer standards. These regulations could limit the economic life of our aircraft and engines, reduce their value, limit our ability to lease or sell the non-compliant aircraft and engines or, if engine modifications are permitted, require us to make significant additional investments in the aircraft and engines to make them compliant. In addition to more stringent noise restrictions, the United States, European Union and other jurisdictions are beginning to impose more stringent limits on the emission of nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide from engines. Although current emissions control laws generally apply to newer engines, new laws could be passed in the future that also impose limits on older engines, and therefore any new engines we purchase, as well as our older engines, could be subject to existing or new emissions limitations or indirect taxation. For example, the European Union issued a directive in January 2009 to include aviation within the scope of its greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme, thereby requiring that all flights arriving, departing or flying within any European Union country, 17 Table of Contents beginning on January 1, 2012, comply with the scheme and surrender allowances for emissions, regardless of the age of the engine used in the aircraft. Similar legislation is currently being proposed in the United States. Limitations on emissions such as the one in the European Union could favor younger more fuel efficient aircraft since they generally produce lower levels of emissions per passenger, which could adversely affect our ability to re-lease or otherwise dispose of less efficient aircraft on a timely basis, at favorable terms, or at all. This is an area of law that is rapidly changing and as of yet remains specific to certain jurisdictions. While we do not know at this time whether new emission control laws will be passed, and if passed what impact such laws might have on our business, any future emissions limitations could adversely affect us. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the United States, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of our employees. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, permit revocation or other damages. Many of these laws impose liability for clean-up of contamination that may exist at our facilities (even if we did not know of or were not responsible for the contamination) or related personal injuries or natural resource damages or costs relating to contamination at third party waste disposal sites where we have sent or may send waste. We cannot assure you that we will be in complete compliance with these laws, regulations or permits at all times. We may have liability under environmental laws or be subject to legal actions brought by governmental authorities or other parties for actual or alleged violations of, or liability under, environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or permits. We are the manager for several securitization vehicles and joint ventures and our financial results would be adversely affected if we were removed from these positions. We are the aircraft manager for various securitization vehicles, joint ventures and third parties and receive annual fees for these services. In 2013, we generated revenue of $20.7 million from providing aircraft management services to non-consolidated securitization vehicles and joint ventures and third parties. We may be removed as manager by the affirmative vote of a requisite number of holders of the securities issued by the securitization vehicles upon the occurrence of specified events and at specified times under our joint venture agreements. If we are removed as aircraft manager for any securitization vehicle or joint venture that generates a significant portion of our management fees, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. The departure of senior managers could adversely affect our financial results. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued service of our senior management personnel. For a description of the senior management team, see "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees". The departure of senior management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy. A cyber-attack that bypasses our information technology, or IT, security systems, causing an IT security breach, may lead to a material disruption of our IT systems and the loss of business information which may hinder our ability to conduct our business effectively and may result in lost revenues and additional costs. Parts of our business depend on the secure operation of our computer systems to manage, process, store, and transmit information associated with aircraft leasing. Like other global companies, we have, from time to time, experienced threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, internet network scans, systems failures and disruptions. A cyber-attack could adversely impact our daily operations and lead to the loss of sensitive information, including our own proprietary information and that of our customers, suppliers and employees. Such losses could harm our reputation and result in competitive disadvantages, litigation, regulatory enforcement actions, lost revenues, 18 Table of Contents additional costs and liability. While we devote substantial resources to maintaining adequate levels of cyber-security, our resources and technical sophistication may not be adequate to prevent all types of cyber-attacks. Risks Related to the Aviation Industry Interruptions in the capital markets could impair our lessees' ability to finance their operations which could prevent the lessees from complying with payment obligations to us. The global financial markets have been highly volatile and the availability of credit from financial markets and financial institutions can vary substantially depending on developments in the global financial markets. Many of our lessees have expanded their airline operations through borrowings and are leveraged. These lessees will depend on banks and the capital markets to provide working capital and to refinance existing indebtedness. To the extent such funding is unavailable or available only at high interest costs or on unfavorable terms, and to the extent financial markets do not allow equity financing as an alternative, our lessees operations and operating results may be adversely affected and they may not comply with their respective payment obligations to us. The global sovereign debt crisis could result in higher borrowing costs and more limited availability of credit, as well as impact the overall airline industry and the financial health of our lessees. On June 10, 2013, Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, Inc., or Standard & Poor's, affirmed its long-term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America of AA+, but revised the rating outlook to stable from negative. Previously, on August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor's lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America from AAA to AA+. While the government entered a partial shutdown on October 1, 2013 because of U.S. lawmakers' failure to reach an agreement on raising the debt ceiling, the government was re-opened 16 days later after lawmakers ratified current spending levels until January 15, 2014 and raised the debt ceiling to a level sufficient to accommodate normal borrowing until approximately February 13, 2014. On February 15, 2014, U.S. lawmakers suspended the debt ceiling through March 15, 2015. The affirmation reflected Standard & Poor's view of the strengths of the U.S. economy and monetary system, as well as the U.S. dollar's status as the world's key reserve currency. The ratings also take account the high level of U.S. external indebtedness, Standard & Poor's view of the effectiveness, stability, and predictability of U.S. policymaking and of political institutions and the U.S. fiscal performance. In addition, significant concerns regarding the sovereign debt of numerous other countries have developed and required some of these countries to seek emergency financing. Specifically, the debt crisis in certain European countries could cause the value of the Euro to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of our European customers. Many of the structural issues facing the Eurozone remain and problems could resurface that could have significant adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, particularly if they lead to sovereign debt default, significant bank failures or defaults and/or the exit of one or more countries from the European Monetary Union (the "EMU"). Financial market conditions could, however, materially worsen if, for example, consecutive Eurozone countries were to default on their sovereign debt, significant bank failures or defaults in these countries were to occur, and/or one or more of the members of the Eurozone were to exit the EMU. Further, the effects of the Eurozone debt crisis could be even more significant if they lead to a partial or complete break-up of the EMU. The partial or full break-up of the EMU would be unprecedented and its impact highly uncertain. The exit of one or more countries from the EMU or the dissolution of the EMU could lead to redenomination of certain obligations of obligors in exiting countries. Any such exit and redenomination would cause significant uncertainty with respect to outstanding obligations of counterparties and debtors in any exiting country, whether sovereign or otherwise, and lead to complex and lengthy disputes and litigation. 19 Table of Contents The downgrade of the credit rating of the United States and the ongoing European debt crisis have contributed to the instability in global credit markets. The sovereign debt crisis could further adversely impact the financial health of the global banking system, not only due to its exposure to the sovereign debt, but also by the imposition of stricter capital requirements, which could limit availability of credit. Further, the sovereign debt crisis could lower consumer confidence, which could impact global financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world. As a result, any combination of lower consumer confidence, disrupted global capital markets and/or reduced economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. Airline reorganizations could impair our lessees' ability to comply with their lease payment obligations to us. In recent years, several airlines have filed for protection under their local bankruptcy and insolvency laws and, over the past several years, certain airlines have gone into liquidation. Historically, airlines involved in reorganizations have undertaken substantial fare discounting to maintain cash flows and to encourage continued customer loyalty. The bankruptcies have led to the grounding of significant numbers of aircraft, rejection of leases and negotiated reductions in aircraft lease rentals, with the effect of depressing aircraft market values. Additional reorganizations or liquidations by airlines under applicable bankruptcy or reorganization laws or further rejection or abandonment of aircraft by airlines in bankruptcy proceedings may depress aircraft values and aircraft lease rates. Additional grounded aircraft and lower market values would adversely affect our ability to sell certain of our aircraft or re-lease other aircraft at favorable rates. A return to historically high fuel prices or continued rapid fluctuations in fuel prices and high fuel costs could affect the profitability of the aviation industry and our lessees' ability to meet their lease payment obligations to us, which would adversely affect our financial results. Fuel costs represent a major expense to companies operating in the aviation industry. Fuel prices have fluctuated widely depending primarily on international market conditions, geopolitical and environmental events and currency/exchange rates. Fuel costs are not within the control of lessees and significant increases in fuel costs or hedges that inaccurately assess the direction of fuel costs would materially and adversely affect their operating results. Factors such as natural disasters can significantly affect fuel availability and prices. In August and September 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita inflicted widespread damage along the Gulf Coast of the United States, causing significant disruptions to oil production, refinery operations and pipeline capacity in the region, and to oil production in the Gulf of Mexico. These disruptions resulted in decreased fuel availability and higher fuel prices. The perception of a structural shortage in oil supplies resulted in the 2008 oil price boom, and saw fuel prices increase to historical highs before declining substantially as a result of the 2008-09 global recession, the subsequent political unrest in North Africa and the fear of political unrest spreading to the large oil exporting countries in the Middle East resulted in rising fuel prices thereafter. A return to 2008 historically high fuel prices that are not hedged appropriately would have a material adverse impact on airlines' profitability. Swift movements in fuel prices when airlines have hedged their fuel costs can adversely affect profitability and liquidity as airlines may be required to post cash collateral under hedge agreements. Due to the competitive nature of the aviation industry, operators may be unable to pass on increases in fuel prices to their customers by increasing fares in a manner that fully offsets the increased fuel costs they may incur. In addition, they may not be able to manage this risk by appropriately hedging their exposure to fuel price fluctuations. If fuel prices return to historically high levels due to future terrorist attacks, acts of war, armed hostilities, natural disasters or for any other reason, they are likely to cause our lessees to incur higher costs and/or generate lower revenues, resulting in an adverse effect on their financial condition and liquidity. Consequently, these conditions may adversely affect our lessees' ability to make rental 20 Table of Contents and other lease payments, result in lease restructurings and/or aircraft repossessions, increase our costs of servicing and marketing our aircraft, impair our ability to re-lease them or otherwise dispose of them on a timely basis at favorable rates or terms, if at all, and reduce the proceeds received for such assets upon any disposition. Any of these events could adversely affect our financial results. If the effects of terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions continue to adversely affect the financial condition of the airlines, our lessees might not be able to meet their lease payment obligations, which would adversely affect our financial results. As a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States and subsequent terrorist attacks abroad, notably in the Middle East, Southeast Asia and Europe, increased security restrictions were implemented on air travel, costs for aircraft insurance and security measures have increased, passenger and cargo demand for air travel decreased and operators have faced and continue to face increased difficulties in acquiring war risk and other insurance at reasonable costs. In addition, war or armed hostilities, or the fear of such events could further exacerbate many of the problems experienced as a result of terrorist attacks. Uncertainty regarding the situation in the Ukraine, Iraq, Syria, the Israeli/Palestinian conflict, tension over the nuclear programs of Iran and North Korea, political instability in North Africa and the Middle East, and the dispute between Japan and China may lead to further instability in these regions. Future terrorist attacks, war or armed hostilities, or the fear of such events in the above or any other region, could further adversely affect the aviation industry and may have an adverse effect on the financial condition and liquidity of our lessees, aircraft values and rental rates, and may lead to lease restructurings or repossessions, all of which could adversely affect our financial results. Terrorist attacks and adverse geopolitical conditions have negatively impacted the aviation industry and concerns about such events could also result in: •higher costs to the airlines due to the increased security measures; •decreased passenger demand and revenue due to the inconvenience of additional security measures; •uncertainty of the price and availability of jet fuel and the cost and practicability of obtaining fuel hedges under current market conditions; •higher financing costs and difficulty in raising the desired amount of proceeds on favorable terms, if at all; •significantly higher costs of aviation insurance coverage for future claims caused by acts of war, terrorism, sabotage, hijacking and other similar perils, and the extent to which such insurance has been or will continue to be available; •inability of airlines to reduce their operating costs and conserve financial resources, taking into account the increased costs incurred as a consequence of terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions, including those referred to above; and •special charges recognized by some operators, such as those related to the impairment of aircraft and engines and other long lived assets stemming from the grounding of aircraft as a result of terrorist attacks, the economic slowdown and airline reorganizations. Future terrorist attacks, acts of war or armed hostilities may cause certain aviation insurance to become available only at significantly increased premiums, which may only provide reduced amounts of coverage that are insufficient to comply with the levels of insurance coverage currently required by aircraft lenders and lessors or by applicable government regulations, or to not be available at all. 21 Table of Contents Although the Aircraft Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act adopted in the United States on September 22, 2001 and similar programs instituted by the governments of other countries provide for limited government coverage under government programs for specified types of aviation insurance, these programs may not continue and governments may not pay under these programs in a timely fashion. Future terrorist attacks, acts of war or armed hostilities are likely to cause our lessees to incur higher costs and to generate lower revenues, which could result in an adverse effect on their financial condition and liquidity. Consequently, these conditions may affect their ability to make rental and other lease payments to us or obtain the types and amounts of insurance required by the applicable leases, which may in turn lead to aircraft groundings, may result in additional lease restructurings and repossessions, may increase our cost of re-leasing or selling the aircraft and may impair our ability to re-lease or otherwise dispose of them on a timely basis at favorable rates or on favorable terms, if at all, and may reduce the proceeds received for our aircraft upon any disposition. These results could adversely affect our financial results. The effects of epidemic diseases and natural disasters, such as extreme weather conditions, floods, earthquakes and volcano eruptions may adversely affect the airline industry in the future, which might cause our lessees to not be able to meet their lease payment obligations to us, which would adversely affect our financial results. The outbreak of epidemic diseases, such as previously experienced with Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and H1N1 (swine flu), could materially and adversely affect passenger demand for air travel. Similarly the lack of air travel demand and/or the inability of airlines to operate to or from certain regions due to severe weather conditions and natural disasters including floods, earthquakes and volcano eruptions could impact the financial health of certain airlines including our lessees. These consequences could result in our lessees' inability to satisfy their lease payment obligations to us, which in turn would adversely affect our financial results. Additionally the potential reduction in air travel demand could result in lower demand for aircraft and consequently lower market values that would adversely affect our ability to sell certain of our aircraft or re-lease other aircraft at favorable rates. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure If the ownership of our ordinary shares continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent minority shareholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest. Currently, our largest shareholder is Waha which owns 26.2% of our ordinary shares. If we complete the ILFC Transaction, AIG will be our largest shareholder and will own approximately 46% of our ordinary shares and will be entitled, pursuant to a shareholder agreement, to elect two members of our board of directors. Waha, and AIG, if the ILFC Transaction is completed, may be able to significantly influence fundamental corporate matters and transactions, including the appointment of our directors, mergers, amalgamations, consolidations or acquisitions, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, the amendment of our articles of association and our dissolution. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent acts that would be favored by our other shareholders, such as a change of control transaction that would result in the payment of a premium to our other shareholders. In addition, this concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares if the perception among investors exists that owning shares in a company with a significant shareholder is not desirable. 22 Table of Contents We are a Netherlands public limited liability company ("naamloze vennootschap" or "N.V.") and it may be difficult to obtain or enforce judgments against us or our executive officers, some of our directors and some of our named experts in the United States. We were incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands and, as such, the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and the civil liability of our directors will be governed by the laws of The Netherlands and our articles of association. The rights of shareholders under the laws of The Netherlands may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. Some of the named experts referred to in this annual report are not residents of the United States, and most of our directors and our executive officers and most of our assets and the assets of our directors are located outside the United States. In addition, under our articles of association, all lawsuits against us and our directors and executive officers shall be governed by the laws of The Netherlands and must be brought exclusively before the Courts of Amsterdam, The Netherlands. As a result, you may not be able to serve process on us or on such persons in the United States or obtain or enforce judgments from U.S. courts against them or us based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to whether the courts of The Netherlands courts would enforce certain civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws in original actions and enforce claims for punitive damages. Under our articles of association, we indemnify and hold our directors, officers and employees harmless against all claims and suits brought against them, subject to limited exceptions. Under our articles of association, to the extent allowed by law, the rights and obligations among or between us, any of our current or former directors, officers and employees and any current or former shareholder shall be governed exclusively by the laws of The Netherlands and subject to the jurisdiction of The Netherlands courts, unless such rights or obligations do not relate to or arise out of their capacities listed above. Although there is doubt as to whether U.S. courts would enforce such provision in an action brought in the United States under U.S. securities laws, such provision could make judgments obtained outside of The Netherlands more difficult to enforce against our assets in The Netherlands or jurisdictions that would apply Netherlands law. Our international operations expose us to geopolitical, economic and legal risks associated with a global business. We conduct our business in many countries, and we anticipate that revenue from our international operations, particularly from the Asia/Pacific region, will continue to account for a significant amount of our future revenue. There are risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including: •general political and economic instability in international markets; •limitations in the repatriation of our assets, including cash; •expropriation of our international assets; •different liability standards and legal systems that may be less developed and less predictable than those in the United States; and •laws of countries that do not protect our intellectual property and international rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If our subsidiaries do not make distributions to us we will not be able to pay dividends. Substantially all of our assets are held by and our revenues are generated by our subsidiaries. While we do not currently, or intend to, pay dividends, we will be limited in our ability to pay dividends unless we receive dividends or other cash flow from our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our owned aircraft are held through special purpose subsidiaries or finance structures which borrow funds 23 Table of Contents to finance or refinance the aircraft. The terms of such financings place restrictions on distributions of funds to us. If these limitations prevent distributions to us or our subsidiaries do not generate positive cash flows, we will be limited in our ability to pay dividends and may be unable to transfer funds between subsidiaries if required to support our subsidiaries. Our financial reporting for lease revenue may be significantly impacted by a proposed new accounting standard for lease accounting. In 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a second Exposure Draft proposing substantial changes to existing lease accounting. This second Exposure Draft sets out a new accounting standard for lessee accounting under which a lessee would recognize a "right-of-use" asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and a liability representing its obligation to pay lease rentals over the lease term. A lessor would account for its leases under either a "receivable and residual" approach or continue an accounting approach similar to today's operating lease accounting. When assessing how to subsequently account for a lease, a lessee and a lessor would classify a lease as either "Type A" or "Type B" on the basis of whether or not a lessee is expected to consume more than an insignificant portion of the economic benefits embedded in the underlying asset. Type A leases are leases where the lessee is expected to consume more than an insignificant portion of the economic benefits embedded in a leased asset. Type B leases are leases where the lessee is not expected to consume more than an insignificant portion of the economic benefits embedded in a leased asset. The second Exposure Draft in 2013 also proposes a practical expedient, under which an entity would classify a lease largely on the basis of the nature of the underlying asset such that most leases of property would be Type B leases and most leases of non-property would be Type A leases. The FASB received significant feedback on the second Exposure Draft and it is possible that an alternative approach will be included in a final standard, possibly without any changes to lessor accounting. The proposals do not contain an effective date for the proposed changes; however, we believe it is unlikely that a new lease accounting standard will be effective prior to 2017. At present, we are unable to assess the effects an adoption of the new lease standard will have on our financial statements. If the proposals are adopted as included in the second Exposure Draft in 2013, we believe the presentation of our financial statements, and those of our lessees, will be materially impacted. Risks Related to Taxation We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We cannot yet determine whether we will be classified as a PFIC for the 2014 fiscal year. The determination as to whether a foreign corporation is a PFIC is a complex determination based on all of the relevant facts and circumstances and depends on the classification of various assets and income under PFIC rules. In our case, the determination is further complicated by the application of the PFIC rules to leasing companies and to joint ventures and financing structures common in the aircraft leasing industry. It is unclear how some of these rules apply to us. Further, this determination must be tested annually and our circumstances may change in any given year. We do not intend to make decisions regarding the purchase and sale of aircraft with the specific purpose of reducing the likelihood of our becoming a PFIC. Accordingly, our business plan (including the ILFC Transaction) may result in our engaging in activities that could cause us to become a PFIC. If we are or become a PFIC, U.S. shareholders may be subject to increased U.S. federal income taxes on a sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares and on the receipt of certain distributions and will be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax reporting requirements. See "Item 10. Additional Information—U.S. Tax Considerations" for a more detailed discussion of the consequences to you if we are treated as a PFIC and a discussion of certain elections that may be available to mitigate the effects of that treatment. We urge you to consult your own tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to your particular circumstances. 24 Table of Contents We may become subject to income or other taxes in jurisdictions which would adversely affect our financial results. We and our subsidiaries are subject to the income tax laws of Ireland, The Netherlands, Sweden and the United States and other jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are incorporated or based. Our effective tax rate in any period is impacted by the source and the amount of earnings among our different tax jurisdictions. A change in the division of our earnings among our tax jurisdictions could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and our financial results. In addition, we or our subsidiaries may be subject to additional income or other taxes in these and other jurisdictions by reason of the management and control of our subsidiaries, our activities and operations, where our aircraft operate or where the lessees of our aircraft (or others in possession of our aircraft) are located. Although we have adopted guidelines and operating procedures to ensure our subsidiaries are appropriately managed and controlled, we may be subject to such taxes in the future and such taxes may be substantial. The imposition of such taxes could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may incur current tax liabilities in our primary operating jurisdictions in the future. We expect to make current tax payments in some of the jurisdictions where we do business in the normal course of our operations. Our ability to defer the payment of some level of income taxes to future periods is dependent upon the continued benefit of accelerated tax depreciation on our flight equipment in some jurisdictions, the continued deductibility of external and intercompany financing arrangements and the application of tax losses prior to their expiration in certain tax jurisdictions, among other factors. The level of current tax payments we make in any of our primary operating jurisdictions could adversely affect our cash flows and have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may become subject to additional Irish taxes based on the extent of our operations carried on in Ireland. Our Irish tax resident subsidiaries are currently subject to Irish corporate income tax on trading income at a rate of 12.5%, on capital gains at 33%, and on other income at 25%. We expect that substantially all of our Irish income will be treated as trading income for tax purposes in future periods. As of December 31, 2013, we had significant Irish tax losses available to carry forward against our trading income. The continued application of the 12.5% tax rate to trading income generated in our Irish tax resident subsidiaries and the ability to carry forward Irish tax losses to shelter future taxable trading income depends in part on the extent and nature of activities carried on in Ireland both in the past and in the future. AerCap Ireland Limited and its Irish tax resident subsidiaries intend to carry on their activities in Ireland so that the 12.5% rate of tax applicable to trading income will apply and that they will be entitled to shelter future income with tax losses that arose from the same trading activity. We may not continue to be entitled to apply our loss carry-forwards against future taxable trading income in Ireland. We may fail to qualify for benefits under one or more tax treaties. We do not expect that our subsidiaries located outside of the United States will have any material U.S. federal income tax liability by reason of activities we carry out in the United States and the lease of assets to lessees that operate in the United States. This conclusion will depend, in part, on continued qualification for the benefits of income tax treaties between the United States and other countries in which we are subject to tax (particularly The Netherlands and Ireland). That in turn may depend on, among others, the nature and level of activities carried on by us and our subsidiaries in each jurisdiction, the identity of the owners of equity interests in subsidiaries that are not wholly owned and the identities of the direct and indirect owners of our indebtedness. 25 Table of Contents The nature of our activities may be such that our subsidiaries may not continue to qualify for the benefits under income tax treaties with the United States and that may not otherwise qualify for treaty benefits. Failure to so qualify could result in the imposition of U.S. federal taxes which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Risks Related to the ILFC Transaction We may be unable to satisfy the conditions or obtain the approvals required to complete the ILFC Transaction or such approvals may contain material restrictions or conditions. The consummation of the ILFC Transaction is subject to numerous conditions, including (i) the approval by our shareholders, which was received on February 13, 2014, and (ii) the receipt of certain regulatory approvals. We cannot assure you that the ILFC Transaction will be consummated on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, or at all. We have expended and will continue to expend management's time and resources and incur expenses due to legal, advisory and financial services fees related to the ILFC Transaction. Governmental agencies may not approve the ILFC Transaction or the related transactions necessary to complete it, or may impose conditions to any such approval or require changes to the terms of the ILFC Transaction. In addition, any relevant regulatory body may impose requirements on us subsequent to the completion of the ILFC Transaction, and we may be subject to additional compliance requirements subsequent to the completion of the ILFC Transaction. Any such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the ILFC Transaction, imposing costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the ILFC Transaction or otherwise reducing the anticipated benefits of the ILFC Transaction. Any condition or change may result in burdensome conditions on ILFC and/or us under the acquisition agreement and might cause AIG and/or us to restructure or terminate the ILFC Transaction or the related transactions. If completed, the ILFC Transaction may not be successful or achieve its anticipated benefits. If the ILFC Transaction is completed, we may not successfully realize anticipated growth or cost-savings opportunities or integrate our business and operations with those of ILFC. After the ILFC Transaction, we will have significantly more revenue, expenses, assets and employees than we did prior to the ILFC Transaction. In the ILFC Transaction, we will also be assuming all of the liabilities of ILFC and taking on other obligations. We may not successfully or cost-effectively integrate ILFC's business and operations into our business and operations. Even if the combined company is able to integrate ILFC's businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities or cost-savings that we currently expect from the ILFC Transaction within the anticipated time frame, or at all. The ILFC Transaction may prove disruptive and could result in the combined business failing to meet our expectations. The process of integrating our operations with ILFC may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. If the ILFC Transaction is completed, our future operations and cash flows will depend largely upon our ability to operate the combined company efficiently, achieve the strategic operating objectives for the combined business and realize significant cost savings and synergies. Our management team may encounter unforeseen difficulties in managing the integration. In order to successfully combine AerCap and ILFC and operate the combined company, our management team will need to focus on realizing anticipated synergies and cost savings on a timely basis while maintaining the efficiency of our operations. Any substantial diversion of management attention to difficulties in operating the combined business could affect our revenues and ability to achieve operational, financial and strategic objectives. 26 Table of Contents The ILFC Transaction could adversely impact our relationship with our customers and may result in the departure of key personnel. If completed, the ILFC Transaction could cause disruptions in our business. For example, our customers may refrain from leasing or re-leasing our aircraft until they determine whether the ILFC Transaction will affect our business, including, but not limited to, the pricing of our leases, the availability of certain aircraft, and our customer support. Our customers may also choose to lease aircraft and purchase services from our competitors until they determine whether the ILFC Transaction will affect our business or our relationship with them. Uncertainty concerning potential changes to us and our business could also harm our ability to enter into agreements with new customers. In addition, key personnel may depart for a variety of reasons, including perceived uncertainty regarding the effect of the ILFC Transaction on their employment. Failure to complete the ILFC Transaction could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares as well as our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the ILFC Transaction is not completed for any reason, the price of our ordinary shares may decline to the extent that the market price of our ordinary shares reflects positive market assumptions that the ILFC Transaction will be completed and the related benefits will be realized. In addition, significant expenses such as legal, advisory and financial services, many of which generally will be incurred regardless of whether the ILFC Transaction is completed, must be paid. Under the acquisition agreement, under certain limited circumstances, we must pay ILFC a termination fee. Investors holding our ordinary shares immediately prior to the completion of the ILFC Transaction will, in the aggregate, have a significantly reduced ownership and voting interest in us after the ILFC Transaction and will exercise less influence over management. Investors holding our ordinary shares immediately prior to the completion of the ILFC Transaction will, in the aggregate, own a significantly smaller percentage of the combined company immediately after the completion of the ILFC Transaction. Immediately following the completion of the ILFC Transaction, AIG will hold approximately 46% of our ordinary shares, and our existing shareholders, including Waha, will hold approximately 54% of our ordinary shares. The ordinary shares received by AIG will be subject to certain voting restrictions and standstill provisions. Furthermore, pursuant to the terms of the acquisition agreement, AIG will be entitled to nominate two directors for election to our board of directors. Consequently, existing shareholders, collectively, will be able to exercise less influence over the management and policies of the combined company than they are able to exercise over the management and our policies immediately prior to the completion of the ILFC Transaction. After the completion of the ILFC Transaction, sales of our ordinary shares may negatively affect the market price thereof. Immediately following the completion of the ILFC Transaction, it is expected that AIG will hold approximately 46% of our ordinary shares, and our existing shareholders, including Waha, will hold approximately 54% of our ordinary shares. The ordinary shares to be issued in the ILFC Transaction to AIG will be subject to a lock-up period which will expire in stages over a 9 to 15 month periods, following the closing of the ILFC Transaction. Sales by AIG of these ordinary shares, or the perception in the market that these sales could occur, following the expiration of the lock-up period may negatively affect the price of our ordinary shares following the ILFC Transaction. 27 Table of Contents 