D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Any major financial or economic crisis, or perceived threat of such a crisis, including a significant decrease in business and consumer confidence, may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any actual or perceived threat of a financial or economic crisis in China could have a material and adverse impact on our business and results of operations. It is very difficult to predict how the PRC economy may develop in the future and whether it might experience a financial or economic crisis in a manner and scale similar to what the United States and other developed countries have experienced in recent years. Any slowdown in China’s economic development could lead to tighter credit markets, increased market volatility, sudden drops in business and consumer confidence and dramatic changes in business and consumer behaviors. The PRC economy was negatively affected by global financial crises in the past and may be further negatively impacted by economic uncertainties in Europe and the United States. Recently, there has been increasing concerns that the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product is slowing, which weighs on enterprises in China, including us. In response to uncertain economic conditions, employers may defer, reduce or stop hiring new employees. To the extent that any fluctuations in the Chinese economy significantly affect employers’ demand for our services or change their spending habits, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition and may suffer from a loss of users and customers as a result. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. We face constant pressure to attract and retain users and customers, expand the market for our products and services and incorporate new capabilities and technologies. We face competition in our various lines of services from competitors who focus exclusively on recruitment and career-related services, such as 51job.com, and from those that offer recruitment as part of their services, such as 58.com. Other large internet companies, social networking services websites and classified advertisement websites have also entered the market for online recruitment services. In addition, we face competition from professional networking websites and existing participants in the offline recruitment industry who may develop online recruitment services and products. We compete with these entities for both users and customers. From time to time, customers may decide not to renew their contracts upon expiration for various reasons. Users may also decide to switch to our competitors’ services. Some of our competitors or potential competitors have longer operating histories and may have greater resources, capabilities and expertise in management, technology, finance, product development, sales, marketing and other areas than we have. They may use their experience and resources to compete with us in a variety of ways, including by competing more heavily for users and customers, investing more in research and development and making acquisitions. If we are unable to compete effectively, successfully and at reasonable cost against our existing and future competitors, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents If internet penetration rates in China do not continue to grow or if online recruitment services do not achieve broad acceptance in China as a recruitment channel, our online recruitment services business may be materially and adversely affected. We rely on the internet for a majority of our revenues. Currently, internet access in China tends to be more expensive, slower, and subject to many social and political uncertainties, and suffers from a more limited capacity of software, hardware and network infrastructure than in many developed countries. As a result, internet penetration rates are lower in China than in many other developed countries. Also, many of our potential users, particularly smaller companies, have not historically utilized the internet as a recruiting tool, and not all job seekers use the internet to look for jobs. Our future results of operations also depend upon the increase in acceptance and use of the internet for the provision of recruitment services in China. If internet penetration rates in China do not continue to grow or internet-based recruiting does not gain wider acceptance, our business, prospects and results of operations could be materially and adversely harmed. If we fail to maintain and enhance our brand, our business, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand are of significant importance to the success of our business. A well-recognized brand is critical to increasing the number and the level of engagement of our users and, in turn, enhancing our attractiveness to customers. We have conducted and may continue to conduct various marketing and brand promotion activities, including print and television advertisements. We cannot assure you, however, that these activities will be successful or that we will be able to achieve the brand promotion effect we expect. In China, we market our services under the brand “ ” or “Zhilian Zhaopin” in Chinese pinyin. However, the last two Chinese characters of our Chinese brand, means “hire” or “recruit” in Chinese and is the generic description of the services we provide. As a result, is not eligible for intellectual property protection under the PRC law. Competitors may use the Chinese characters in their marketing efforts, potentially diluting the strength of our brand. In addition, any negative publicity relating to our products or services, regardless of its veracity, could harm our brand and the perception of our brand in the market. If our brand is harmed, we may not be able to continue to attract a growing user base, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to improve our user experience, product offerings and technology platform, we may not be able to attract and retain users and customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain users and customers. Our customers are the primary source of our revenues. A key factor in attracting and retaining customers is our ability to grow our resume database and attract and retain high-quality users. A key factor in attracting and retaining users, in turn, is maintaining and increasing the number of customers using our services and the quantity and quality of job postings on our website. To satisfy both our users and customers, we need to continue to improve the experience for both users and customers as well as innovate and introduce products and services that users and customers find useful and that cause them to return to our website and use our services more frequently. This includes continuing to improve our technology platform to optimize recruitment search results, tailoring our database to additional geographic and market segments and improving the user-friendliness of our website. In addition, we need to adapt our services, expand and improve our delivery platform to keep up with the changing user preferences. For example, with the growing propensity for our users to use smartphones as their main job searching devices, we need to further optimize our mobile applications and continue to modify and update them to successfully manage the transition to mobile devices of users of our products and services. It is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in innovating and introducing new products and services, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of our solutions. 6 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that our initiatives to improve our user experience will always be successful. We also cannot predict whether our new products or service offerings and delivery methods will be well received by users and customers, or whether improving our technology platform or introducing new service delivery channels will be successful or sufficient to offset the costs incurred to offer these services. If we are unable to increase and retain our users and customers, or maintain and increase the quantity or quality of resumes and job postings, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties that companies in evolving industries may encounter. In addition to the impact of economic uncertainty in China resulting from the global financial crisis, our results of operations for the past two years were primarily affected by costs and expenses required to grow our customer and user base, promote our brand, develop our products and services and operate our websites. We expect that we will continue to be subject to the effects of general economic conditions in China and to incur product development, sales and marketing expenses and other costs to launch new services and grow our customer and user bases. We anticipate that expenses associated with our sales force will continue to grow as we expand into new markets. We may incur net losses in the future and you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties that are often involved for companies in a rapidly evolving industry. The market for online recruitment services in China is relatively new and may not develop as expected, if at all. In addition, the success of other recruitment services companies both globally and in China may not be indicative of our future financial performance. Our business may suffer if we do not successfully manage our current and potential future growth. We have grown significantly in recent years and we intend to continue to expand the scope and geographic reach of the services we provide. Our total revenues increased from RMB821.5 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 to RMB908.9 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013 and to RMB1,079.8 million (US$174.1 million) in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. Our anticipated future growth will likely place significant demand on our management and operations. Our success in managing our growth will depend, to a significant degree, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of senior management to operate effectively, and on our ability to improve and develop our financial and management information systems, controls and procedures. In addition, we will likely have to successfully adapt our existing systems and introduce new systems, expand, train and manage our employees and improve and expand our sales and marketing capabilities. If we are unable to properly and prudently manage our operations as they continue to grow, or if the quality of our services deteriorates due to mismanagement, our brand name and reputation could be severely harmed, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain and expand our scale of operations and generate a sufficient amount of revenues to offset the associated fixed and variable costs, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Online businesses of our nature tend to involve certain fixed cost bases, and our ability to achieve desired operating margins in our recruitment business depends largely on our success in maintaining a scale of operations and generating a sufficient amount of revenues to offset the associated fixed and variable costs. Our fixed costs typically include compensation of employees for our general administration functions, data storage and bandwidth expenses and office rental expenses. Our variable costs typically include campus recruitment subcontracting costs, print publishing and distribution costs and candidate assessment sub-contracting costs. Once we establish the technology and network infrastructure to support an online business model, the incremental cost of adding new job postings and resumes online will be relatively insignificant and we can serve additional customers and users with decreasing average cost as our online recruiting services business expands. If we are unable to maintain economies of scale, our operating margin may decrease and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If user traffic to our website declines for any reason, our business and results of operations may be harmed. Our ability to attract and maintain user traffic to our website is critical for our continuing growth. If user traffic to our website declines for any reason, our business and results of operations may be harmed. We depend in part on various internet search engines and portals to direct a significant amount of user traffic to our website. However, the amount of user traffic directed to our website is not entirely within our control. Our competitors’ search engine optimization efforts may result in their websites receiving a higher search result page ranking than ours. Internet search engines could revise their methodologies, which may adversely affect the placement of our search result page ranking. Any such changes could decrease user traffic to our website and adversely affect the growth in our user base, which may in turn harm our business and operating results. 7 Table of Contents Any disruption in internet access, telecommunications networks or our technology platform may cause slow response times or otherwise impair our users’ experience, which may in turn reduce user traffic to our website and significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our online recruitment business is highly dependent on the performance and reliability of China’s internet infrastructure, accessibility of bandwidth and servers to our service providers’ networks and the continuing performance, reliability and availability of our technology platform. Compared to more developed countries, internet access in China is subject to greater uncertainties. Telecommunications capacity constraints in China may impede further development of the internet to the extent that users experience delays, transmission errors and other difficulties. We rely on major Chinese telecommunication companies and other third-party data center service providers to provide us with bandwidth, data storage and other services. We may not have access to comparable alternative networks or services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems. Any disruption in internet access or in the internet generally could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, we may not timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology and network infrastructure to ensure that our website is accessible within an acceptable load time, which may have a material and adverse impact on our business prospects and results of operations. We may experience website disruptions, outages and other website performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our website simultaneously and denial of service or fraud or security attacks. In addition, we may experience slow response times or system failures due to a failure of our information storage, retrieval, processing and management capabilities. Slow response times or system failures may drive our users away, reduce the attractiveness of our products and services or discourage customers from posting jobs on our website. If we experience technical problems in delivering our services over the internet either at a national or regional level, we could experience reduced demand for our services, lower revenues and increased costs. We depend upon talented employees, including our senior management, to grow and operate our business, and if we are unable to retain and motivate our personnel and attract new talent, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our success depends on our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain talented employees. Our ability to execute and manage our operations efficiently is dependent upon contributions from all of our employees, and in particular upon our senior management team led by Mr. Evan Sheng Guo, our chief executive officer, and Mr. James Jianmin Guo, our chief financial officer. Competition for senior management and key personnel is intense and the pool of qualified candidates is to an extent limited. From time to time, some of our senior officers may choose to leave our company for various reasons, including change of interests or career development plans, compensation, or working relations with our board or with other team members, which could result in management turnover. If we are unable to retain the services of our current senior management team or other key personnel or properly manage the working relationship among our management and employees, this may mean we will become exposed to legal or administrative proceedings or adverse publicity and our reputation may be harmed and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we face significant competition for qualified middle management and personnel with relevant experience and expertise. Some of our competitors, especially new market entrants, have attempted to recruit our employees and, in some cases, succeeded in attracting our employees by offering higher compensation and other benefits. Training of new employees with no prior relevant experience could be time-consuming and require a significant amount of resources. We may also need to increase the compensation we pay in order to retain our skilled employees. If competition in our industry further intensifies, it may be more difficult for us to hire, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. If we do not succeed in attracting additional highly skilled personnel or retaining or motivating our existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively or at all and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents If our key performance indicators are inaccurate, our ability to form appropriate corporate growth strategies may be impaired and our business, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We assess our operating performance using a set of key performance indicators, which include the number of unique customers, registered users, completed resumes in our database and job postings on our website. Capturing accurate data is subject to various limitations. We have established controls to systematically remove stale job postings from our website, including removing from our website job postings posted by customers whose contracts with us have expired or job postings that we determine to be disingenuous or illegitimate based on user complaints and our internal control procedures. However, customers may not always remove stale job postings available on our website on a timely basis, and we may not be able to detect and remove all disingenuous or illegitimate job postings. It is also possible a job posting may include duplicative job openings. In addition, users, who generally do not pay for our services, may post resumes and/or job applications and never return to complete the process or update their resumes. In addition, users may upload multiple resumes under separate accounts, leading to double counting. As a result, we cannot assure you that such key operating performance indicators always reflect our actual operating performance or our data collection technologies and tools always capture accurate data. Similarly, we may also incorrectly assess our key operating performance indicators and in turn make incorrect operational and strategic decisions. Failure to capture accurate data or an incorrect assessment of this data may materially harm our business and operating results and have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. We may be the subject of allegations, harassing or other detrimental conduct by third parties, which could harm our reputation and cause us to lose market share and customers and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. We have been subject to allegations by third parties or purported former employees, negative internet postings and other adverse public exposure on our business, operations and staff compensation. We may also become the target of harassment or other detrimental conduct by third parties or disgruntled former or current employees. Such conduct may include complaints, anonymous or otherwise, to regulatory agencies, media or other organizations. We may be subject to government or regulatory investigation or other proceedings as a result of such third-party conduct and may be required to spend significant time and incur substantial costs to address such third-party conduct, and there is no assurance that we will be able to conclusively refute each of the allegations within a reasonable period of time, or at all. Additionally, allegations, directly or indirectly against us, may be posted on the internet, including social media platforms by anyone, whether or not related to us, on an anonymous basis. Any negative publicity about us or our management can be quickly and widely disseminated. Social media platforms and devices immediately publish the content of their subscribers’ and participants’ posts, often without filters or checks on the accuracy of the content posted. Information posted may be inaccurate and adverse to us, and it may harm our reputation, business or prospects. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. Our reputation may be negatively affected as a result of the public dissemination of negative and potentially false information about our business and operations, which in turn may cause us to lose market share, users or customers, and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. Concerns about our collection and use of personal data and other privacy-related matters could damage our reputation and deter customers and users from using our services. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operations. The PRC Constitution, the PRC Criminal Law and the General Principles of the PRC Civil Law protect individual privacy in general. In particular, Amendment 7 to the PRC Criminal Law prohibits institutions, companies and their employees in the telecommunications and other industries from selling or otherwise illegally disclosing a citizen’s personal information obtained during the course of performing duties or providing services. Our internal policy also requires our employees to protect the personal data of our users, and employees who violate such policy are subject to disciplinary actions, including dismissal. While we strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own privacy policies, and we believe we are in compliance with the applicable PRC laws and regulations on data protection, any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or private individuals, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Moreover, failure or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could result in a loss of confidence in us by customers and users, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We are exposed to potential legal liability associated with the recruitment process, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are exposed to potential claims associated with the recruitment process, including claims by customers and users. In addition, PRC laws and regulations prohibit companies from producing, distributing or publishing any advertisement that contains any content that violates PRC laws and regulations or is reactionary, obscene, superstitious, absurd or fraudulent. PRC laws and regulations also prohibit human resources service providers from publishing fake recruitment information. We require customers to submit their government-issued business licenses to us before we allow posting of their job openings on our website in order to verify the employers’ identities. Nevertheless, we have limited means to determine whether a job posting is genuine or legitimate. For example, customers may fail to remove postings for positions that have been filled or may keep multiple job postings open for the same position, and companies may use our websites to market their brands and post positions that are not available. Also, while we require customers to submit their government-issued business licenses, we cannot assure you that the supporting documentation provided to us is genuine. Once we receive and verify complaints regarding disingenuous or illegitimate job postings, we remove them from our website. Although the number of job postings that were discovered to be disingenuous or illegitimate in the past has been insignificant and we have not faced any formal legal actions against us brought by users or any government entity, if we are found to fail to protect users from disingenuous or illegitimate job postings, we may be subject to civil actions and our reputation may be harmed, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are found to be in violation of applicable PRC laws and regulations, we may be subject to other penalties. At the same time, we have limited means to determine the genuineness of the information in the resumes our users upload to our platform. Although employers are expected to independently verify the credentials of the users who they are interested in hiring, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to claims by customers in connection with fraudulent user resumes. Furthermore, for our executive search services, if we recommend a candidate who subsequently proves unsuitable for the position, it is possible that the relevant customer may seek to hold us liable for any loss suffered by it by claiming negligence or that we have breached our contract. We may also be held liable for claims by candidates against us alleging our failure to maintain the confidentiality of their employment search or discrimination or other violations of employment law or regulations by our customers. Finally, customers or users may allege that our services failed to comply with laws or regulations relating to employment or other matters. We have not experienced any material claims during the past three years. However, should any such claims be brought against us, regardless of their merit, we may be forced to participate in time-consuming and costly litigation or investigation, which could divert significant management and staff attention and damage our reputation and brand names, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. We do not maintain insurance coverage for liabilities arising from claims by customers, users or third parties. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection laws in the PRC, as well as confidentiality agreements and procedures, to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, third parties may obtain and use without our authorization our intellectual property, which includes trademarks related to our brand, products and services, patent applications, registered domain names, copyrights in software and creative content, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights and licenses. 10 Table of Contents Historically, the legal system and courts of the PRC have not protected intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system and courts of the United States. Companies operating in the PRC continue to face an elevated risk of intellectual property infringement as compared to other jurisdictions such as the United States. Furthermore, the validity, application, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights for many internet-related activities, such as internet commercial methods patents, are uncertain and still evolving, which may make it more difficult for us to protect our intellectual property, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be vulnerable to intellectual property infringement claims brought against us by others. We rely on third-party intellectual property to operate our business to some extent, such as licenses to use software and copyrights. Although we have never experienced any material intellectual property claims against us in the past, as we face increasing competition and as litigation becomes more common in China in resolving commercial disputes, we face a higher risk of being subject to intellectual property infringement claims. A successful infringement claim against us could result in monetary liability or a material disruption in the conduct of our business. Although we require our employees not to infringe others’ intellectual property, we cannot be certain that our products, services, content and brand names do not or will not infringe on valid patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. As a result, due to diversion of management time, expenses required to defend against any claim and the potential liability associated with any lawsuit, any significant litigation could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were found to have infringed on the intellectual property rights of a third party, we could be liable to that party for license fees, royalty payments, lost profits or other damages, and the owner of the intellectual property may be able to obtain injunctive relief to prevent us from using the technology, software or brand name in the future. If the amount of these payments were significant, if we were prevented from incorporating certain technology or software into our products or services or if we were prevented from using our brand name, our business could be significantly harmed. We may not be able to successfully halt the operations of copycat websites or misappropriation of our data. From time to time, third parties have misappropriated our data through website scraping, robots or other means and aggregated this data on their websites with data from other companies. In addition, “copycat” websites may attempt to imitate the functionality of our website. Although none of these events have caused any material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, we cannot assure you that similar events will not occur on a larger scale and materially and adversely impact our results of operations. If we become aware of such websites, we would employ technological or legal measures in an attempt to halt their operations. However, we may not be able to detect all such websites in a timely manner and, even if we could, technological and legal measures may be insufficient to stop their operations. In some cases, our available remedies may not be adequate to protect us against such websites. Regardless of whether we can successfully enforce our rights against these websites, any measures that we may take could require us to expend significant financial or other resources. We are subject to risks related to our third party vendors, which may negatively impact our business and results of operations. We rely on third parties for certain of our services, such as campus recruitment, print advertising services and assessment services. We provide campus recruitment services to customers seeking to recruit college and university students and our services typically include selecting campuses, organizing recruiting events, collecting and managing resumes and conducting interviews and assessment tests with potential candidates. Our campus recruitment services are often provided together with our online and other recruitment services. For our campus recruitment business, we need to maintain good relationships with the schools from which customers plan to recruit students, which typically provide us with the site for any recruiting activities, as well as other third-party vendors, such as printing agencies. For our assessment services, we utilize third-party test designers to create our assessment tests and third-party interviewers to provide evaluations. In addition, we also rely on local newspapers for the distribution of our print recruitment advertisements. 11 Table of Contents In general, we rely on the operations of our third-party vendors and may not have any control over the costs of the services they provide. Third-party service providers may raise their prices, which may not be commercially reasonable to us. Our existing vendors may not continue to provide the high-quality services that they currently do. To maintain good working relationships with colleges and universities, our team would need to maintain active communications with them, provide free training and lectures on job searches to students, and proactively reach out to students and student employment offices, which efforts may not always yield our intended results. If we are forced to seek other providers, there is no assurance that we will be able to find alternative providers willing or able to provide comparable high-quality services and there is no assurance that such providers will not charge us higher prices for their services. If the prices that we are required to pay third-party vendors for services rise significantly or we are unable to find suitable providers that offer comparable high-quality services, the results of our operations could be adversely affected. Computer viruses, undetected software errors and hacking may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce the use of our services and damage our reputation and brand names. Our online systems, including our zhaopin.com website, and our other software applications, products and systems could contain undetected errors, or “bugs,” that could adversely affect their performance. Additionally, we regularly update and enhance our website and our other online systems and introduce new versions of our software products and applications. The occurrence of errors in any such update or enhancement may cause disruptions in our services and may, as a result, cause us to lose market share, damage our reputation and brand name and materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, computer viruses and hacking may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions, loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. While we currently employ various antivirus and computer protection software in our operations, we cannot assure you that such protections will successfully prevent hacking or the transmission of any computer virus, which could result in significant damage to our hardware and software systems and databases, disruptions to our business activities, including to our e-mail and other communications systems, breaches of security and the inadvertent disclosure of confidential or sensitive information, interruptions in access to our website through the use of “denial of service” or similar attacks and other material adverse effects on our operations. In 2012, we experienced temporary disruption of services because our internet data center service provider experienced distributed denial-of-services attacks, which lasted for approximately three hours. Although we have requested that our internet data center service provider to take initiatives to prevent recurrence of similar events, we cannot assure you that similar events will not happen again in the future. We may incur significant costs to protect our systems and equipment against the threat of, and to repair any damage caused by, computer viruses and hacking. Moreover, if a computer virus or hacking affects our systems and is highly publicized, our reputation and brand names could be materially damaged and usage of our services may decrease. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We have entered into strategic alliances and joint ventures in the past and may pursue strategic alliances, joint ventures and strategic acquisitions in the future. If we are unable to find suitable acquisitions or partners or if we fail to achieve expected benefits from such acquisitions or partnerships, our business, growth rates and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may enter into negotiations or agreements relating to potential strategic alliances, joint ventures or strategic acquisitions in the future. If we are unable to identify alliances, joint ventures or acquisitions, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, growth rates and results of operations. Even if we do identify appropriate targets, the success of any material acquisition will depend upon a number of factors, including: • our ability to acquire businesses on a cost-effective basis; 12 Table of Contents • our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively; and • our ability to retain and motivate key personnel and to retain the clients of acquired firms. Any such alliance, joint venture or acquisition may require a significant commitment of management time, capital investment and other resources. We may be unable to consummate such transactions, we may not be able to effectively integrate an acquired business or we may be required to incur restructuring and other charges to complete a transaction. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we use our equity securities as consideration for transactions, we may dilute the value of your ADSs. Real or perceived inaccuracies of our user metrics may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business and operating results. We calculate the number of daily unique visitors based on the number of different cookies or device IDs from which a website or a mobile application of ours is visited during a given day based on our internal data, which has not been independently verified. There are inherent challenges in measuring our daily unique visitors accurately. For example, we cannot obtain user traffic data on webpages or websites where we have not placed Java script codes and thus do not have cookies. Furthermore, if the Java script code is placed at the bottom of a webpage and users leave the page before it is fully loaded to trigger the code, the unique visitor data would not be recorded. In addition, for users who use an internet browser that blocks cookies, we may not be able to obtain the user data for these users. Finally, user devices with poor internet connectivity may fail to trigger the Java script code to record the unique visitor data. On the other hand, a user who visits our websites as well as our mobile applications on a given day may be counted as multiple daily unique visitors due to the different cookies and IDs of the devices used to visit our websites and mobile applications. Our measures of calculating daily unique visitors may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly titled metrics used by our competitors or other parties due to differences in methodology. If customers, employers or investors do not perceive our user metrics to be accurate representations of our user base, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our user metrics, our reputation may be harmed, which may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our independent registered public accounting firm has identified a material weakness and other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud may be adversely affected, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely impacted. Prior to our initial public offering in June 2014, we had been a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal control and procedures over financial reporting. In the course of auditing our consolidated financial statements for the two years ended June 30, 2013, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified one material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. As defined in the standards established by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a “material weakness” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented, or detected on a timely basis. The material weakness identified relates to the lack of sufficient financial reporting and accounting personnel with appropriate knowledge of U.S. GAAP and SEC reporting requirements to properly address complex U.S. GAAP accounting issues and to prepare and review our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures to fulfill U.S. GAAP and SEC financial reporting requirements. Subsequent to these findings, we have taken initiatives to further improve our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedure.” However, the implementation of these initiatives may not fully address the material weakness and deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. 13 Table of Contents We are a public company in the United States that is subject to the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, requires that we include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 20-F starting from the fiscal year ending June 30, 2015. In addition, once we cease to be an emerging growth company as such term is defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm, after conducting its own independent testing, may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. In addition, our reporting obligations as a public company may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. We may be unable to complete our evaluation testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the course of documenting and testing our internal control procedures, in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, we may identify other weaknesses and deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as these standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, we could suffer material misstatements in our financial statements and fail to meet our reporting obligations, which would likely cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could in turn limit our access to capital markets, harm our results of operations, and lead to a decline in the trading price of our ADSs. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subject us to potential delisting from the stock exchange on which we list, regulatory investigations and civil or criminal sanctions. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods. Because we recognize most of the revenues from our online recruitment services over the terms of the relevant agreements, a significant downturn in these businesses may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We recognize revenues from our online recruitment services over the terms of the relevant agreements, which typically vary from one month to one year. As a result, a significant portion of the revenues we report in each quarter is generated from agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed agreements in any quarter may not significantly impact our revenues in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our fixed costs in response to reduced revenues. Accordingly, the effect of significant declines in the sales of these products and services may not be reflected in our short-term results of operations. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results of operations difficult to predict and may cause our quarterly results of operations to fall short of expectations. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate depending upon a number of factors, many of which are out of our control. Seasonal fluctuations and industry cyclicality have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our online recruitment services and other services. We generally generate less revenue during the national holidays in China due to the slowdown of business during the holidays. In the periods following the Chinese New Year holiday and towards the end of a calendar year, we historically experienced an increase in recruitment activity. The Chinese New Year holiday is based on the lunar calendar, varies from year to year and typically lasts for two weeks, which affects our third quarter results and their comparability to financial results of the same quarter in prior years. During seasonal peak periods, demand for recruitment advertising and other human resource related services may or may not rise significantly depending on the needs of customers as well as their perceptions of the job market. We also have observed seasonal campus recruitment activity by customers in the first and second quarter of each fiscal year. In addition, employers’ spending in China has historically been cyclical, reflecting the overall economic conditions as well as the demand for human resource services and recruitment patterns of employers. For these and other reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be useful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause the price of our ADSs to fluctuate widely. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to comply with the restrictions contained in our loan agreements, an event of default could occur under the terms of such agreements, which could cause repayment of such debt to be accelerated and affect our liquidity. Our existing loan agreements require that the proceeds shall not be used or reinvested in China. If we are unable to comply with this requirement, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements. In the event of a default under these agreements, the banks could terminate their commitments to lend to us, accelerate the loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable or terminate the agreements, whichever the case may be. We cannot assure you that our assets and cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full all of our indebtedness, or that we would be able to find alternative financing in time. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, we cannot assure you that it would be on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. We have granted, and may continue to grant, stock options and other forms of share-based incentive awards, which may result in significant share-based compensation expenses and dilution to your interests. Under our currently effective stock option plan, the maximum number of shares in respect of which stock option awards may be granted is 5,523,574 as of the date of this annual report. As of August 31, 2014, options to purchase a total of 17,043,336 ordinary shares of our company are outstanding under our terminated or expired stock option plans. See “Item 6.B. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Compensation.” For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014, we recorded RMB30.2 million (US$4.9 million) in share-based compensation expenses. We believe share-based incentive awards enhance our ability to attract and retain key personnel and employees, and we will continue to grant stock options and other share-based awards to employees in the future. If our share-based compensation expenses continue to be significant, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Future grants and exercises of stock options or other forms of share-based compensation will result in dilution to your interests in our company. If we fail to obtain or maintain all required licenses, permits and approvals or if we are required to take actions that are time-consuming or costly, our business operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are required to obtain applicable licenses, permits and approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to conduct our business. The government authorities may continue to pass new rules regulating the internet sector. They may require us to obtain additional licenses, permits or approvals so that we can continue to operate our existing businesses or otherwise prohibit our operation of the types of businesses to which the new requirements apply. In addition, new regulations or new interpretations of existing regulations may increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering services and products over the internet and through mobile operators and expose us to potential penalties and fines. Pursuant to the PRC Regulations on the Administration of Talents Market, companies that purport to engage in human resources related services need to obtain the human resources service license. Companies conducting human resources related services without the human resources service license may be ordered to cease operations and a fine of up to RMB30,000 per entity may be imposed, by local human resources bureaus. As of the date of this annual report, 24 out of 28 operating branch offices of Beijing Wangpin have obtained human resources permits, or HR permits. Our Wuxi branch office is in the process of applying HR permits. In addition, our Kunming, Taiyuan and Zhengzhou branch offices have not obtained their respective HR permits. With respect to our Taiyuan branch office, the authority in Taiyuan requested that at least five employees must pass a related exam but it is uncertain when the exam will be held. As a result, we have not been able to obtain HR permits for that branch office. With respect to our other branch offices, the relevant local governmental authorities do not issue any HR permits at the moment or have any procedures to accept and approve the HR permits applications for the branch offices of our joint venture. As of the date of this annual report, we cannot predict with reasonable certainty when the government authorities will start accepting applications and issue HR permits. Such branch offices with no HR permits contributed 3.6% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. As of the date of this annual report, no penalty has been imposed by local human resources bureaus on us. In addition, these branch offices may also be deemed to be engaging in services beyond their authorized business scope because of their lack of the HR permits, in which cases local administrations of industry and commerce, or local AICs, may order such branch offices to rectify, fine such branch offices in an amount ranging from RMB10,000 to RMB100,000 per entity, confiscate a portion of their income, or, in serious cases, revoke the business licenses of the entities. In 2014, Beijing Wangpin newly established a branch office in Guiyang, Nanchang, Foshan and Yantai, respectively. These four branch offices are contemplated to conduct human resource related business in the future but as of the date of this annual report they do not yet have any business operation and consequently are not required to possess HR permits at the moment. Prior to commencing human resource related services, these four branch offices will apply for and obtain HR permits accordingly. We cannot assure you that these branch offices will obtain HR permits in time, if at all. 15 Table of Contents Furthermore, we historically made available to human resources professionals a magazine, “Chief Human Resources Officer,” in Chinese for free to our customers. However, we were investigated by the relevant authorities and received a fine of RMB1,000 in 2013 for engaging in the publishing and distributing magazines without the requisite license and were required to take remedial actions. As a result, we decided to cease the publication and distribution of this magazine until the necessary publication permit is obtained. We cannot assure you that all of our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities will conduct their business in strict compliance with their authorized business scopes and with all necessary operating permits. If any of them are deemed by governmental authorities to be operating without appropriate permits or outside of their authorized scopes of business or otherwise fail to comply with relevant laws and regulations, we may be subject to penalties and our business and results of operation may be materially and adversely affected. There may be some defects with respect to the establishment of our indirect subsidiary, Guangdong Zhilian Culture & Media Co., Ltd., in China. Although the scope of business license of Guangdong Zhilian Culture & Media Co., Ltd. enables it to conduct its current businesses, it was established without obtaining the prior approval from the relevant government authorities that regulate the relevant industries. We have not received any notice of warning nor have we been subject to penalties or other disciplinary actions by the relevant governmental authorities with respect to these potential defects. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant governmental authorities would not require us to obtain the approvals or the permits from government authorities at proper levels to cure the defects, or take any other actions retrospectively in the future. If the relevant governmental authorities require us to cure such defects, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such approvals or the permits from governmental authorities at proper levels, in a timely manner or at all. Increases in labor costs in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our profitability. China’s economy has experienced significant growth, leading to inflation and increased labor costs. China’s consumer price index, the broadest measure of inflation, rose 2.5% in December 2013 from the level it was in December 2012. China’s overall economy and the average wage in the PRC are expected to continue to grow. As a result, the average wage level for our employees also increased in recent years. If inflation and the cost of labor in China continue to increase and we are unable to pass on these increased labor costs to our customers by increasing prices for our services, our profitability and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Some of our leased property interests may be defective and we may be forced to relocate operations affected by such defects, which could cause significant disruption to our business. As of the date of this annual report, we had leased properties in Beijing and 33 other cities in China. According to PRC laws, rules and regulations, in situations where a tenant lacks evidence of the landlord’s title or right to lease, the validity of a lease agreement is uncertain and may be subject to challenge by third parties. The lessor of our executive offices in Beijing, where most of our employees are located, holds proper ownership title certificates. With respect to 12 of our 54 leases outside Beijing, the lessors failed to provide property title certificates or other legal instruments proving their respective title ownership, and only a few of them agreed to indemnify us for damages arising from the lessor’s lack of title. These 12 leases provide a total of 8,046.34 square meters of office space for our local business, or 17.8% of our total leased office space. Prior to signing leases, we typically require the lessors to provide their government-issued title certificates to the leased properties. If the lessors do not have title certificates, we rely on other evidences of ownership, such as the property purchase agreement if the lessor recently purchased the property and has not yet obtained a title certificate from local authorities or a construction permit or a property selling permit if we lease properties directly from developers. 16 Table of Contents We do not believe that such failure will affect the performance of these leases. However, we cannot assure you that such defects will be remediated in a timely manner or at all. Our business may be interrupted and additional relocation costs may be incurred if we are required to relocate operations from premises affected by such defects. Moreover, if our lease agreements are challenged by third parties, it could result in diversion of management attention and cause us to incur costs associated with defending such actions, even if such challenges are ultimately determined in our favor. We have limited business insurance coverage. Insurance companies in China currently do not offer as extensive an array of insurance products as insurance companies do in countries with more developed economies. In line with general industry practice in China, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance to cover our operations. Any uninsured occurrence of business disruption may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face risks related to health epidemics and other natural disasters. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 flu, H7N9 or other avian flus, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic or outbreak. China reported a number of cases of SARS in 2003, which resulted in the closure of many businesses by the PRC government to prevent transmission. In recent years, there have been reports of occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. In 2009 and 2014, the global spread of H1N1 flu and H7N9 avian flu, respectively, resulted in several confirmed infections and deaths in China. Restrictions on travel resulting from any prolonged outbreak of H1N1 flu, H7N9 and other avian flus, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak could adversely affect our ability to market our services to new and existing customers and users throughout China. Our business operations could be disrupted if one of our employees is suspected of having H1N1 flu, H7N9 and other avian flus, SARS or another illness related to a health epidemic, which could require that a certain number of our employees be quarantined and/or our offices be disinfected. In addition, our results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent that H1N1 flu, H7N9 and other avian flus, SARS or another health epidemic harms the Chinese economy in general. We are also vulnerable to natural disasters and other calamities such as fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, war, riots, terrorist acts or similar events or acts of God. Any of the foregoing events may give rise to server interruptions, breakdowns, system failures, technology platform failures or internet failures, which could cause the loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware as well as adversely affect our ability to provide services to our customers and users. In addition, a severe disaster could affect the operations or financial condition of our customers, users and suppliers, which could harm our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government determines that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our business in China do not comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. PRC laws and regulations currently place certain restrictions on foreign ownership of companies that engage in internet content, advertising and human resources related business. Specifically, foreign ownership in an internet content service provider or other value-added telecommunications service providers may not exceed 50%. PRC laws and regulations also restrict foreign ownership of companies that conduct advertising business by requiring a Sino-foreign joint venture’s foreign investor to have at least a two-year track record with advertising operations as its main business outside China, and a wholly foreign-owned enterprise’s foreign investor to have at least a three-year track record with advertising operations as its main business outside China. In addition, the PRC government imposed restrictions on foreign ownership in entities that provide human resources related services in 2003. Foreign ownership in entities that provide human resources related services was restricted to 49%, beginning in November 2003, unless the foreign investor is from Hong Kong or Macau, in which case no restriction is imposed. 17 Table of Contents In order to comply with the relevant PRC laws and regulations, we conduct our operations in China through (i) our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries, (ii) our joint venture, Beijing Wangpin and (iii) contractual arrangements among our wholly owned PRC subsidiary, Zhilian Wangpin, and our consolidated affiliated entities in the PRC and their respective shareholders. To the extent permissible under the PRC laws and regulations, we provide services through our three wholly owned subsidiaries in China, Zhilian Wangpin and Zhilian Yipin. The business scope set forth in the business license of Zhilian Wangpin includes research and development of internet technology and computer software; technology consulting, technical services and technology transfer, computer technology training; and sale of self-manufactured products. The business scope set forth in the business license of Zhilian Yipin includes research and development of internet technology and computer software; production of computer software; technology consulting, technical services and technology transfer; computer technology training; and sale of self-manufactured products. Although the current PRC laws and regulations restrict foreign ownership in entities that provide human resources related services to 49% unless the foreign shareholder is incorporated in Hong Kong or Macau, this restriction does not apply to our joint venture, which is 90% owned by us and 10% owned by Zhilian Sanke. We have been advised by Commerce & Finance Law Offices, our PRC legal counsel, that we may continue to operate our human resources related services through Beijing Wangpin under the current equity structure because our joint venture was set up in 2000 and received its human resources service license prior to 2003. The current human resources service license is valid for a period of three years until March 31, 2016 and may be subsequently renewed with the relevant authorities. Our contractual arrangements enable us to receive substantially all the economic benefits from, and exercise effective control over, our consolidated affiliated entities and consolidate their results of operations. For a detailed discussion of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4.C. Information on the Company—Organizational Structure.” Although we believe our contractual arrangements are in compliance with current PRC regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will agree that these contractual arrangements comply with existing PRC laws and regulations or with PRC laws and regulations that may be adopted in the future. PRC laws and regulations governing the validity of these contractual arrangements are uncertain and the relevant government authorities have broad discretion in interpreting these laws and regulations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities will ultimately take a view that is consistent with the opinion of our PRC legal counsel. If the corporate structure and contractual arrangements through which we conduct our business in China are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, we would be subject to potential actions by the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, which actions could include: • revoking or refusing to grant or renew the business and operating licenses required to conduct our operations in China; • restricting or prohibiting transactions between our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities; • imposing fines or other requirements which we or our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities may find difficult or impossible to comply with; • requiring us or our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities to alter our ownership structure or operations; and 18 Table of Contents • restricting or prohibiting the use of any proceeds from our public offering to finance our business and operations in China. The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business in China, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For risks related to our ICP license, see “—We may be adversely affected by the complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation on internet businesses and companies.” Our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. Any failure by our consolidated affiliated entities or their respective shareholders to perform their obligations under our contractual arrangements with them may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their respective shareholders to operate a part of our business in China. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4.C. Information on the Company—Organizational Structure.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over our consolidated affiliated entities as direct ownership. If we had direct ownership of these consolidated affiliated entities, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in their respective boards of directors, which in turn could affect changes at the management level, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations. Under the current contractual arrangements, we rely on the performance by our consolidated affiliated entities and their respective shareholders of their respective obligations under the contracts to exercise control over our consolidated affiliated entities. For example, our consolidated affiliated entities and their respective shareholders could breach their contractual arrangements with us by, among other things, failing to operate our business in an acceptable manner or taking other actions that are detrimental to our interests. Our consolidated affiliated entities and their respective shareholders may fail to take certain actions required for our business or follow our instructions despite their contractual obligations to do so. If our consolidated affiliated entities or their respective shareholders fail to perform their obligations under the contractual arrangements with us, we may have to restructure our business operations, and/or incur substantial costs and resources to enforce our rights under the contracts and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages, which may not be effective. For example, we terminated the contractual arrangement with a former consolidated affiliated entity, Henan Wangpin Advertising Co., Ltd., or Henan Wangpin, in 2012, partly because a former non-executive employee in Henan who is a direct equity holder of Henan Wangpin refused to transfer his equity interest in this entity to an individual designated by us despite his contractual obligations to do so. Henan Wangpin accounted for approximately 1.5% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 and was deconsolidated since May 2012. We have conducted our business through our newly established branch office of our joint venture in Henan Province since 2012, and the former employee who is a registered owner of Henan Wangpin does not hold any equity interest in our company or any of our other consolidated affiliated entities. Although we have not experienced any material adverse impact on our business or results of operations due to the above changes, if the shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities were to refuse to transfer their equity interests in these entities to us or our designee when and if we request so, or if they were otherwise to act in bad faith against us, then we may have to take legal actions to compel them to perform their contractual obligations, or they may bring claims against us to demand their economic and other rights in our consolidated affiliated entities by virtue of the fact that they are direct equity holders of these entities. PRC laws and regulations governing the validity of our contractual arrangements are uncertain and the government authorities, including courts, have broad discretion in interpreting these laws and regulations. See “—Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure—If the PRC government determines that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our business in China do not comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties” and “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us.” In addition, the shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities may not act in the best interests of our company or may not perform their obligations under these contracts. 19 Table of Contents All the material agreements under our contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes under the agreements through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal system in the PRC is not as developed as some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. Under PRC law, rulings by arbitrators are final, parties cannot appeal the arbitration results in courts, and the prevailing parties may only enforce the arbitration awards in PRC courts through arbitration award recognition proceedings, which would cause additional expenses and delay. In the event we are unable to enforce our contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exercise effective control over our affiliated entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be materially and adversely affected. Perfection of the pledges in our equity pledge agreements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders may be adversely affected if these equity pledges are not properly recorded. Three of our consolidated affiliated entities have not registered their equity pledges. Under the equity pledge agreements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their PRC shareholders, the shareholders have pledged to us all of their respective equity interests in the consolidated affiliated entities. The equity interests are pledged to secure the performance by our consolidated affiliated entities and their PRC shareholders under our contractual arrangements, such as the loan agreements, the business operations agreements and exclusive technology consulting and service agreements. We conduct our human resources business mostly through the branch offices of Beijing Wangpin, our joint venture, instead of relying on contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliates entities. We are in the process of liquidating two subsidiaries of Zhilian Wangpin, the subsidiary of Shenzhen Xijier in Dongguan and 12 consolidated affiliated entities. As of the date of this annual report, such subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities have no material business operations. We will not register the pledge agreements for these entities which are in the liquidation process. In addition, Harbin Zhilian Wangcai Advertising Co., Ltd. has registered its equity pledge with the relevant local administration for industry and commerce while Zhilian Sanke, Shenyang Zhilian Wangpin Advertising Co., Ltd. and Guangzhou Houbo Information Technology Co., Ltd. have not made such registrations. Three of our consolidated affiliated entities have not registered their equity pledges, though we are preparing the necessary documents to register all the equity pledges by the shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities with the relevant local authorities. It is difficult to predict how long it will take to complete these equity pledge registrations or whether they could be completed at all. See “Item 4.C. Information on the Company—Organizational Structure.” For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2013 and 2014, we derived 18.8%, 13.1% and 8.5% of our total revenues from our consolidated affiliated entities, respectively. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2013 and 2014, the consolidated affiliated entities that have not registered their equity pledges, Shenyang Zhilian Wangpin Advertising Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Houbo Information Technology Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries, and Zhilian Sanke, in the aggregate, contributed 0.5%, 2.4% and 5.1% of our total revenues, respectively. As of the date of this annual report, three of our consolidated affiliated entities that have not registered equity pledges have total registered capital of RMB1.7 million (US$0.3 million). The registered capital amount is the amount required by the PRC State Administration of Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, to be stated in the application for registration of the equity interest pledges. However, the registered capital amount does not reflect the fair market value of the equity interests that are pledged under the equity pledge agreements; rather, the registered capital amount reflects the amount of capital required to be contributed to the consolidated affiliated entity under its articles of association by the holders of its equity interests. The value secured by equity pledges is not limited to the amount of the registered capital stated on the application form. Instead, under the equity pledge agreements, it covers all debts and liabilities arising from the relevant principal agreements under our contractual arrangements. The lack of registration of the equity pledges does not affect the validity of the equity pledge agreements or our ability to enforce the agreements against the current shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities. However, the equity pledges, which form part of the contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities, will not be deemed validly created security interests under the PRC Property Rights Law until they are registered. Until the equity pledges are registered, we may not be able to successfully enforce these pledges, and will not be able to seek remedies against any third party who acquires the equity interests in the two consolidated affiliated entities in good faith. Should a third party acquire the equity interests in good faith, we may lose control of these businesses and may not be able to consolidate the assets, liabilities and results of operations of these entities. 20 Table of Contents Further, under PRC law and the equity pledge agreements, in the event of a default under our contractual arrangements, our primary remedy would be to engage in a public auction or sale of the shares and not a direct transfer of the pledged equity interest to us if we choose to enforce the pledge. Such an auction or sale may not result in our receipt of full value of the equity or the business of the entities. Under our contractual arrangements, the PRC shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities have agreed to pledge all their equity interests therein as collateral to us. If we exercise the option to acquire equity ownership of our consolidated affiliates, the ownership transfer shall be approved or filed with PRC governmental authorities and subject to taxation, which may result in substantial costs. Pursuant to the contractual arrangements, Zhilian Wangpin (or its designee) has the exclusive right to purchase all or any part of the equity interests in our consolidated affiliates from the respective shareholders for a price being the higher of (i) the registered capital of such consolidated affiliates, or (ii) the minimum price as permitted by the then applicable PRC laws. The equity transfer shall be subject to the approvals from or filings with the MOFCOM, the MIIT, the SAIC and/or their local competent branches. In addition, the equity transfer price may be subject to review and tax adjustment by the relevant tax authority. The shareholders of our consolidated affiliates will be subject to PRC individual income tax on the difference between the equity transfer price and the then current registered capital of our consolidated affiliates. The shareholders of our consolidated affiliates will pay, after deducting such tax, the remaining amount to Zhilian Wangpin under the contractual arrangements. The amount to be received by Zhilian Wangpin may also be subject to enterprise income tax. Such tax amounts could be substantial. The shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We do not have any arrangements in place to address such potential conflicts. We do not have any equity interest in any of our consolidated affiliated entities except for Harbin Zhilian Wangcai Advertising Co., Ltd. With respect to our principal consolidated affiliated entities, Zhilian Sanke and Guangzhou Houbo Information Technology Co., Ltd. are jointly owned by Mr. Xin Wang and Mr. Yuanwei Xie; Harbin Zhilian Wangcai Advertising Co., Ltd is jointly owned by Zhilian Wangpin and Mr. Hao Liu; and Shenyang Zhilian Wangpin Advertising Co., Ltd. is jointly owned by Mr. Hao Liu and Mr. Xin Wang. Mr. Hao Liu is a director of our company. Mr. Yuanwei Xie and Mr. Xin Wang are nominee shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities and employees of SEEK Limited, which is the parent company of SEEK International Investments Pty Ltd., or SEEK, our largest shareholder as of the date of this annual report. Mr. Wang and Mr. Xie became nominee shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities in 2014 through equity interest transfers by the previous nominee shareholders. For the equity interest transfers to Mr. Wang and Mr. Xie to become effective against third parties, the transfers need to be registered with the local branches of the SAIC. As of the date of this annual report, the registration of such transfers related to Zhilian Sanke and Guangzhou Houbo Information Technology Co., Ltd. is still in process. The time needed to complete such registration varies and we cannot predict when the registration will be complete. In addition, the local branches of the SAIC may require the physical presence of both the transferor and transferee at the same time in their office before they register any transfer. As a result, lack of full cooperation by the nominee shareholders may delay or prevent the completion of the registration process. Although these individuals are contractually obligated, or obligated as a result of their fiduciary duty to our company, to act in good faith and in our best interest, they still have potential conflicts of interest with us. For example, occasions may arise when the fiduciary duties these individuals owe to us under Cayman Islands law conflict with the fiduciary duties they owe to our PRC entities under PRC law. Under Cayman Islands law, a director is not released from his or her fiduciary duties owed to us as a director of our company, and his or her obligation to discharge such duties is not affected by any other duties that such director owes or interests which such director may have, including as a director or shareholder of another company, such as our consolidated affiliated entities. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these individuals will act in the best interests of our company or such conflicts will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individuals may breach, cause our consolidated affiliated entities to breach or refuse to renew, the existing contractual arrangements with us. Currently, we do not have any arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest between these individuals and our company. We rely on these individuals to abide by the laws of the Cayman Islands and China, which provide that directors owe a fiduciary duty to the company that requires them to act in good faith and in the best interests of the company and not to use their positions for personal gains. There are, however, no specific regulations under the PRC or Cayman Islands laws with respect to the potential conflicts of interest. If we cannot resolve any conflict of interest or dispute between us and the beneficial owners of our consolidated affiliated entities, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could disrupt our business, distract management and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. 21 Table of Contents The shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities may be involved in personal disputes with third parties or other incidents that may have an adverse effect on their respective equity interests in the relevant consolidated affiliated entities and the validity or enforceability of our contractual arrangements with the relevant entity and its shareholders. For example, in the event that any of the shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities divorces his or her spouse, the spouse may claim that the equity interest of the relevant consolidated affiliated entities held by such shareholder is part of their community property and should be divided between such shareholder and spouse. If such claim is supported by the court, the relevant equity interest may be obtained by the shareholder’s spouse or another third party who is not subject to obligations under our contractual arrangements, which could result in our losing effective control over the relevant consolidated affiliated entity. Similarly, if any of the equity interests of our consolidated affiliated entities is inherited by a third party on whom the current contractual arrangements are not binding, we could lose our control over the relevant consolidated affiliated entity or have to maintain such control at unpredictable cost, which could cause significant disruption to our business, operations and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Although under our current contractual arrangements, (i) the spouses of each of the shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities have executed spousal consent letters, under which they agree that they will not take any actions or raise any claims to interfere with the performance by their spouses of the obligations under these contractual arrangements, including claiming community property ownership on the equity interest, and they renounce any and all right and interest related to the equity interest that they may be entitled to under applicable laws and (ii) it is expressly provided that all these agreements and the rights and obligations thereunder shall be equally effective and binding on the heirs and successors of the contract parties, we cannot assure you that these undertakings and arrangements will be complied with or effectively enforced. In the case any of them is breached or becomes unenforceable and leads to legal proceedings, it could disrupt our business, distract management and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. Contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and result in adverse tax consequences to us. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenged by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements among Zhilian Wangpin, our wholly owned subsidiary in China, our consolidated affiliated entities in China and their respective shareholders were not entered into on an arm’s length basis and consequently adjust our consolidated affiliated entities’ income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by our consolidated affiliated entities, which could in turn increase their tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties upon our consolidated affiliated entities for unpaid taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if our consolidated affiliated entities’ tax liabilities increase or if they are subject to late payment fees or other penalties. We may rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could limit our ability to pay dividends to holders of our ADSs and ordinary shares. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities, which are limited liability companies established in China. We may rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any existing or future indebtedness and to pay our operating expenses. We currently do not plan to declare and pay dividends to holders of our ADSs and ordinary shares. 22 Table of Contents The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. In particular, regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Except for joint ventures, which can set aside reserve funds at their boards of directors’ own discretion, PRC companies are required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of their registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, PRC companies may allocate a portion of their after-tax profit to their staff welfare and bonus fund at the discretion of their boards of directors. In October 2013, we were paid a cash dividend of RMB224.1 million by Beijing Wangpin, our joint venture. Our other PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entities historically have not allocated any of their after-tax profits to staff welfare and bonus funds, since there is no legal requirement to do so, but they may nevertheless decide to set aside such funds in the future. There is no maximum amount of after-tax profit that a company may contribute to such funds. Any direct or indirect limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries, including our joint venture, to distribute dividends and other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to make investments or acquisitions at the holding company level, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, has promulgated regulations, including the Notice on Relevant Issues Relating to Domestic Residents’ Investment and Financing and Round-Trip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles (“SAFE Circular No. 37”)which became effective and replaced the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for PRC Residents Engaging in Financing and Roundtrip Investments via Overseas Special Purpose Vehicles(“SAFE Circular No. 75”)in July 2014, to require PRC residents, including PRC institutions and individuals, to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, for the purpose of overseas investment and financing, with such PRC residents’ legally owned assets or equity interests in domestic enterprises or offshore assets or interests, referred to in SAFE Circular No. 37 as a “special purpose vehicle.” SAFE Circular No. 37 further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as increase or decrease of capital contributed by PRC individual residents, share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material event. In the event that a PRC resident holding interests in a special purpose vehicle fails to fulfill the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that special purpose vehicle may be prohibited from making profit distributions to the offshore parent and from carrying out subsequent cross-border foreign exchange activities, and the special purpose vehicle may be restricted in their ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiary. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. We may not at all times be fully aware or informed of the identities of all of our beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents, and we may not always be able to compel our beneficial owners to comply with SAFE Circular No. 37. In addition, in practice, different local SAFE branches may have different views and procedures on the application and implementation of SAFE regulations, and since Circular No. 37 was recently issued, there remains uncertainty with respect to its implementation. Therefore, we cannot assure you that these individuals or any other direct or indirect shareholders or beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents will be able to successfully complete the registration or update the registration of their direct and indirect equity interest as required. The failure or inability of our PRC resident beneficial owners to make any required registrations or comply with these requirements may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into or provide loans (including using the proceeds from our initial public offering) to our China operations, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute profits to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on our business. Substantially all of our assets and business operations are located in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The economy in China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • degree of government involvement; • level of development; • rate of economic growth; • control of foreign exchange rates and currency conversion; • access to financing; and • allocation of resources. Although China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy since the 1970s, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over China’s economy through resource allocation, foreign exchange control, monetary policies and administrative regulations of certain industries and entities. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the reliance on market forces to promote economic reform, reduce state ownership of productive assets and establish corporate governance structures in business enterprises. Nevertheless, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the government could materially and adversely affect our business. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven geographically, among various sectors of the economy and during different periods. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, that any growth will be steady and uniform or that any slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system, prior court decisions in a civil law system may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always consistent, and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties, which may limit the available legal protections. In addition, the PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing or enforcing statutory rules and contractual terms, and it may be more difficult to predict the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we may enjoy in the PRC than under some more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may affect our judgment on the relevance of legal requirements and our decisions on the measures and actions to be taken to fully comply therewith, and may affect our ability to enforce our contractual or tort rights. Such uncertainties may therefore increase our operating expenses and costs and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all, and which may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of any of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. Such uncertainties, including uncertainty over the scope and effect of our contractual, property (including intellectual property) and procedural rights, and any failure to respond to changes in the regulatory environment in China could materially and adversely affect our business and impede our ability to continue our operations. We may be adversely affected by the complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation on internet businesses and companies. The PRC government extensively regulates the internet industry, including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the internet industry. These internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to PRC regulation of internet businesses include, but are not limited to, the following: • The evolving PRC regulatory system for the internet industry may lead to the establishment of new regulatory agencies. Further, new laws, regulations or policies may be promulgated or announced that will regulate internet activities, including online recruitment and online advertising businesses. If these new laws, regulations or policies are promulgated, additional licenses may be required for our operations. If our operations do not comply with these new regulations after they become effective, or if we fail to obtain any licenses required under these new laws and regulations, we could be subject to penalties and our business operation could be disrupted. • There are uncertainties relating to the regulation of the internet industry in China, including evolving licensing requirements. This means that permits, licenses or operations at some of our companies may be subject to challenge, or we may fail to obtain or renew permits or licenses that applicable regulators may deem necessary for our operations. If we fail to maintain or obtain the required permits or licenses, we may be subject to various penalties, including fines and discontinuation of, or restriction on, our operations. Any such penalty may disrupt our business operations and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, audio and video content accessible from our website is hosted on, and delivered through, a third-party website, which has an internet audio/video program transmission license. If this business arrangement is challenged by the PRC government, we may need to apply for the internet audio/video program transmission license. We may not be able to obtain such license in a timely manner or at all. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview” for more details. • The interpretation and application of existing or future PRC laws, regulations and policies relating to the internet industry have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, internet businesses in China, including our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing licenses or obtain any new licenses required under any existing or new laws or regulations. There are also risks that we may be found to violate existing or future laws and regulations given the uncertainty and complexity of China’s regulation of internet businesses. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may limit the use of the proceeds we received from our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement for our expansion or operations. In utilizing the proceeds we receive from our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement, as an offshore holding company with PRC subsidiaries, we may (i) make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, (ii) establish new PRC subsidiaries and make capital contributions to these new PRC subsidiaries, (iii) make loans to our PRC subsidiaries or our consolidated affiliated entities or (iv) acquire offshore entities with business operations in China in an offshore transaction. However, most of these uses are subject to approvals and certain limitations on capital amount. For example: • capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, whether existing or newly established, must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local bureaus; 25 Table of Contents • loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries, including our joint venture, to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE or its local bureaus; and • loans by us to our consolidated affiliated entities, as well as the settlements of such loans, must be approved by SAFE or its local bureaus. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of Renminbi funds converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested company. The approved use of such Renminbi funds may not be changed without approval from SAFE. Renminbi funds converted from foreign exchange may not be used to repay loans in Renminbi if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. We expect that the PRC regulations of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may continue to limit our use of proceeds of our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement. There are no costs associated with registering loans or capital contributions with relevant PRC governmental authorities, other than nominal processing charges. Under PRC laws and regulations, the PRC governmental authorities are required to process such approvals or registrations or deny our application within a prescribed period. The actual time taken, however, may be longer due to administrative delay. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to our future plans to use the U.S. dollar proceeds we receive from our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement for our expansion and operations in China. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and ability to fund and expand our business. Our PRC subsidiaries’ business licenses do not specifically authorize equity investments and, as a result, we are prohibited from using Renminbi converted from foreign currency denominated capital to establish new subsidiaries, increase the registered capital of our current subsidiaries or invest in other companies in China. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency denominated capital into Renminbi and restricting the use of such converted Renminbi. Circular 142 provides that a foreign-invested company can only use Renminbi converted from foreign currency denominated capital for purposes within the business scope specified in its business license, as approved by the applicable governmental authorities. Our PRC subsidiaries, including our joint venture, have used Renminbi converted from foreign currency denominated capital to pay advertising expenses, pay salaries and benefits to employees and fund other operational needs, all of which are within the approved business scope of our PRC subsidiaries’ business licenses. In addition, Circular 142 provides that a foreign-invested company may not use such converted Renminbi for equity investments in the PRC unless its business license specifically includes equity investments within its business scope. Currently, none of our PRC subsidiaries, all of which are foreign-invested enterprises, has an approved business scope that includes equity investments. Furthermore, SAFE promulgated a circular on November 9, 2010, or Circular 59, which requires the authenticity of settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings to be closely examined and the net proceeds to be settled in the manner described in the offering documents. To strengthen Circular 142, SAFE promulgated a “Circular on Further Clarifying and Regulating Relevant Issues Concerning the Administration of Foreign Exchange under Capital Account”, or Circular 45, on November 16, 2011, which expressly prohibits a foreign-invested company from converting its registered capital in foreign exchange currency into Renminbi for the purpose of making domestic equity investments, granting certain entrusted loans, repayment of inter-company loans, and repayment of bank loans that have been transferred to a third party. Furthermore, Circular 45 generally prohibits foreign-invested entities from converting registered capital in foreign exchange into Renminbi for payment of various types of cash deposits. As a result, Circular 142 and Circular 45 may significantly restrict our ability to transfer capital to our consolidated affiliated entities through our PRC subsidiaries, including our joint venture, which may adversely affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to expand their business operations and may impact our planned use of proceeds. 26 Table of Contents In August 2014, the SAFE promulgated the Circular on Issues concerning the Pilot Reform of the Administrative Approach Regarding the Settlement of the Foreign Exchange Capitals of Foreign-invested Enterprises in Certain Areas (“SAFE Circular 36”), which launched a pilot reform of the administration of the settlement of the foreign exchange capitals of foreign-invested enterprises in certain designated areas from August 4, 2014. However, the SAFE Circular 36 continues to prohibit foreign-invested enterprises from using the Renminbi fund converted from its foreign exchange capitals for expenditure beyond its business scope. Under the pilot program, some of the restrictions under SAFE Circular 142 will not apply to the settlement of the foreign exchange capitals of the foreign-invested enterprises established within the designate areas. Our PRC subsidiaries are not established within the designated areas. As a result, although we may finance our PRC subsidiaries, including our joint venture, through shareholder loans or capital contributions after obtaining approval from, and completing registration with, the applicable PRC governmental authorities, such capital can only be used for approved business purposes specified in the business licenses of our PRC subsidiaries, and none of our PRC subsidiaries is allowed to use such funds to make any equity investment in the PRC by means of establishing new subsidiaries, increasing the registered capital of our current subsidiaries or acquiring an equity interest in other entities in China. Any violation of Circulars above may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines. This limitation could adversely affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to expand their business operations and may impact our planned use of proceeds. For example, we may not be able to use our proceeds for strategic investment or acquisition in China through our PRC subsidiaries. Our global income and the dividends that we may receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC taxes under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and non-PRC shareholders may be subject to PRC tax on dividends and gains which may reduce returns on investments in our shares or ADSs. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes, i.e., it is required to pay enterprise income tax on income derived from sources inside and outside China at a tax rate of 25%, although the dividends paid to one resident enterprise from another may qualify as “tax-exempt income.” The implementation regulations of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law define a “de facto management body” as a body that has substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and properties of an enterprise, and provides that if the foreign enterprise is deemed to be PRC resident enterprise, dividends and other income obtained by the shareholder from the deemed PRC resident enterprise will be considered PRC-source income and subject to PRC withholding tax, which may be further reduced depending on provision in the double taxation agreement between China and the relevant countries. A circular issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009, or “Circular,” specifies that certain foreign enterprises controlled by a PRC company or a PRC company group will be classified as PRC “resident enterprises” if the following requirements are satisfied: (i) the senior management and core management departments in charge of its daily operations function are mainly in the PRC; (ii) its financial and human resources decisions are subject to determination or approval by persons or bodies in the PRC; (iii) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, and minutes and files of its board and shareholders’ meetings are located or kept in the PRC; and (iv) at least half of the enterprise’s directors with voting rights or senior management reside in the PRC. Although the Circular only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises and not those controlled by PRC individuals or by foreign individual or enterprise, the determining criteria set forth in the Circular may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC individuals. 27 Table of Contents We do not believe that Zhaopin Limited is a PRC resident enterprise because it does not meet the above conditions. Zhaopin Limited is a company incorporated outside the PRC, and keeps its respective key assets and records, including resolutions of board of directors and resolutions of shareholders, outside of the PRC. In addition, we are not aware of any offshore holding companies with similar corporate structures to ours that have been deemed to be PRC “resident enterprises” by the PRC tax authorities. Therefore, we do not believe Zhaopin Limited should be treated as a “resident enterprise” for PRC tax purposes. However, as the tax resident status of an enterprise is subject to determination by the PRC tax authorities and uncertainties remain with respect to the interpretation of the term “de facto management body” as applicable to our offshore entities, we may be considered a resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to the enterprise income tax at 25% on our global income. If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiary, a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Moreover, the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC resident enterprise shareholders, a 10% PRC tax is imposed on gains derived by our non-PRC resident enterprise shareholders from transferring our shares or ADSs (unless the holder is eligible for a treaty that provides a reduced rate), a 20% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC resident individual shareholders and a 20% PRC tax is imposed on gains derived by our non-PRC resident individual shareholders from transferring our ordinary shares or our ADSs (unless the holder is eligible for a treaty that provides a reduced rate), in each case, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by the relevant PRC authorities. This could have the effect of increasing our and our shareholders’ effective income tax rates and may require us to deduct withholding tax from any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders. In addition to the uncertainty regarding how the new “resident enterprise” classification may apply, it is also possible that the rules may change in the future, possibly with retroactive effect. If we are required under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders or our shareholders and ADS holders are subject to PRC tax on gains derived from transferring our ordinary shares or ADSs, your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We face uncertainties with respect to application of the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfer by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises. Pursuant to the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or SAT Circular 698, issued by the State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, in December 2009, with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008, where a non-resident enterprise transfers the equity interests of a PRC resident enterprise indirectly by disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: (i) has an effective tax rate of less than 12.5% or (ii) does not impose income tax on foreign income of its residents, the non-resident enterprise, being the transferor, shall report to the competent tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise this Indirect Transfer. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authority may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. SAT Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price that does not comply with arm’s length principles, the relevant tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. On March 28, 2011, SAT released the SAT Public Notice (2011) No. 24, or SAT Public Notice 24, to clarify several issues related to Circular 698. SAT Public Notice 24 became effective on April 1, 2011. According to SAT Public Notice 24, the term “effective tax” refers to the effective tax on the gain derived from disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company; and the term “does not impose income tax” refers to the cases where the gain derived from disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company is not subject to income tax in the country or region where the overseas holding company is a resident. 28 Table of Contents There is uncertainty as to the application of SAT Circular 698. For example, while the term “Indirect Transfer” is not clearly defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with the PRC. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or made any formal declaration as to the process and format for reporting an Indirect Transfer to the competent tax authority of the relevant PRC resident enterprise. In addition, there are not any formal declarations concerning how to determine whether a foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement in order to reduce, avoid or defer PRC tax. SAT Circular 698 may be determined by the tax authorities to be applicable to our private equity financing transactions and historical restructuring where non-resident investors were involved, if any of such transactions were determined by the tax authorities to lack reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, we and our non-resident investors may become at risk of being taxed by virtue of SAT Circular 698 in connection with our past restructuring and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with SAT Circular 698 or to establish that we and our non-resident enterprise investors should not be taxed by virtue of SAT Circular 698, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or such non-resident investors’ investments in us. Although SAT Circular 698 contains an exemption for transfers of publicly traded stock in a PRC resident enterprise, we do not believe Zhaopin Limited is a PRC resident enterprise and such exemption should not be applicable to the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs. If we are regarded as a non-PRC resident enterprise, PRC tax authorities may deem any future transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs by our shareholders or holders of ADSs to be subject to these regulations, which may subject such shareholders or holders of ADSs to additional reporting obligations or tax burdens. If such shareholders or holders of ADSs fail to comply with these circulars, the PRC tax authorities may take actions, including requesting us to assist in their investigations, which could have a negative impact on our business operations. Discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in China could adversely affect our overall results of operations. The current PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law imposes a uniform enterprise income tax rate of 25% on all domestic enterprises, including foreign-invested enterprises, unless they qualify for certain exceptions. The PRC enterprise income tax is calculated based on the taxable income determined under the PRC laws and accounting standards. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules permit “high and new technology enterprises strongly encouraged by the state”, or HNTE, which independently own core intellectual property and meet certain other criteria stipulated in the implementation rules to enjoy a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15%, subject to periodical review of the qualification of HNTE, and approval of relevant taxation administration and other criteria specified in relevant laws and regulations. Beijing Wangpin received HNTE qualification approval from relevant government authorities in November 2011 and filed its HNTE status with the local tax bureau in March 2012, upon which Beijing Wangpin is entitled to enjoy the preferential tax rate of 15% from 2011 to 2013. Beijing Wangpin’s continued qualification as an HNTE will be subject to review by the relevant PRC government authorities every three years and it is required to conduct annual filing with relevant authorities within the effective period of HNTE qualification. Beijing Wangpin is in process of application of HNTE qualification renewal as of the date of this report. There is no assurance that Beijing Wangpin will continue to be accredited as an HNTE, or the current favorable tax policies available to us will not be withdrawn or revoked by the PRC government authorities or become less favorable. If the current preferential tax treatment is no longer available to us in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow range. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. There remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to substantially liberalize its currency policy, which could result in further appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. 29 Table of Contents Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in Renminbi. At the Cayman Islands holding company level, we may rely on dividends and other fees paid to us by our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities in China. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, net revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would make any new Renminbi-denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for such purposes. Conversely, a significant depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may significantly reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings, which in turn could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. If we decide to convert Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Very limited hedging options are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to adequately hedge our exposure. In addition, our currency exchange loss may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Under our current corporate structure, the income of our Cayman Islands holding company is primarily derived from a share of the earnings from our PRC subsidiaries. Revenues of our PRC subsidiaries are all denominated in Renminbi. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency-denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, for any PRC company, dividends can be declared and paid only out of the retained earnings of that company under PRC law. Furthermore, approval from SAFE or its local branch is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses, such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. Specifically, under the existing exchange restrictions, without a prior approval of SAFE, cash generated from the operations of our subsidiaries in China may be used to pay dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to our company and pay employees of our PRC subsidiaries who are located outside China in a currency other than the Renminbi. With a prior approval from SAFE, cash generated from the operations of our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities may be used to pay off debt in a currency other than the Renminbi owed by our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities to entities outside China, and make other capital expenditures outside China in a currency other than the Renminbi. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Failure to comply with the registration requirements for employee stock incentive plans may subject our PRC equity incentive plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. On February 15, 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notice on Foreign Exchange Administration of PRC Residents Participating in Share Incentive Plans of Offshore Listed Companies, or Circular 7, which superseded the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals issued by SAFE in January 2007. Circular 7 regulates the foreign exchange matters associated with employee stock incentive plans or similar plans permitted under applicable laws and regulations granted to PRC residents by companies whose shares are listed on offshore stock exchanges. 30 Table of Contents Pursuant to Circular 7, all PRC residents participating in share incentive plans of offshore listed companies are required to, through their employers, jointly retain qualified PRC agents to register with SAFE. PRC residents include PRC nationals or foreign citizens having been consecutively residing in PRC for not less than one year who act as directors, supervisors, senior management personnel or other employees of PRC entities affiliated with such offshore listed company. A qualified PRC agent may be a PRC entity involved in the share incentive plan or a PRC institution eligible for assets trusteeship, which is lawfully selected to handle various foreign exchange matters related with share incentive plans and apply annually for a quota for conversion and/or payment of foreign currencies in connection with the PRC residents’ exercise of the employee stock options. The foreign exchange proceeds received by PRC residents from sale of shares under share incentive plans granted by offshore listed companies must be remitted to bank accounts in China opened by their employers or PRC agents. We and our PRC resident employees or other personnel who participate in our stock option plans are subject to these regulations since our initial public offering were completed. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation—Regulation of Foreign Currency Exchange and Dividend Distribution—Circular 7.” Failure to make adequate contributions to various employee benefit plans as required by PRC regulations may subject us to penalties. Companies operating in China are required to participate in various government sponsored employee benefit plans, including certain social insurance, housing funds and other welfare-oriented payment obligations, and contribute to the plans in amounts equal to certain percentages of salaries, including bonuses and allowances, of our employees up to a maximum amount specified by the local government from time to time at locations where we operate our businesses. The requirement of employee benefit plans has not been implemented consistently by the local governments in China given the different levels of economic development in different locations. From time to time, we did not make full contributions to the social security and housing funds for all employees. We did not pay, or were not able to pay, certain past social security and housing fund contributions in strict compliance with the relevant PRC regulations for and on behalf of our employees due to differences in local regulations and inconsistent implementation or interpretation by local authorities in the PRC and different levels of acceptance of the housing fund system by our employees. As of June 30, 2014, we have recorded RMB39.9 million of accruals for estimated underpaid amounts in our financial statements. We may be required to make up the contributions for these plans as well as pay late fees and fines. If we are subject to late fees or fines in relation to the underpaid employee benefits, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If the custodians or authorized users of our controlling non-tangible assets, including corporate chops and seals, fail to fulfill their responsibilities or misappropriate or misuse these assets, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. In China, a company chop or seal usually serves as the legal representation of the company towards third parties even when unaccompanied by a signature. Under PRC law, legal documents for corporate transactions, including contracts and leases that our business relies on, are executed using “corporate chops,” which are instruments that contain either the official seal of the signing entity or the signature of a legal representative whose designation is registered and filed with SAIC. Our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities generally execute legal documents with corporate chops. One or more of our corporate chops may be used to, among other things, execute commercial sales or purchase contracts, procurement contracts and office leases, open bank accounts, issue checks and issue invoices. We believe that we have sufficient controls in place over access to and use of the chops. Our chops are kept securely with our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer or city managers of our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated affiliated entities, as applicable. In addition, some of our contract management employees are authorized to maintain contract chops and apply them to sales contracts with our customers. Use of chops requires proper approvals in accordance with our internal control procedures. The custodians are required to maintain a log to keep a detailed record of each use of the chops. However, we cannot assure you that unauthorized access to or use of those chops can be prevented. Our designated employees who hold the corporate chops could abuse their authority by, for example, binding us to contracts against our interests or intentions, which could result in economic harm, disruption of our operations or other damages to us as a result of any contractual obligations, or resulting disputes, that might arise. If the party contracting with us did not act in good faith under such circumstances, then we could incur costs to nullify such contracts. Such corporate or legal action could involve significant time and resources, while distracting management from our operations. In addition, we may not be able to recover corporate assets that are sold or transferred out of our control in the event of such a misappropriation if a transferee relies on the apparent authority of the representative and acts in good faith. 31 Table of Contents If a designated employee uses a chop in an effort to obtain control over one or more of our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities, we would need to take legal action to seek the return of the applicable chop(s), apply for a new chop(s) with the relevant authorities or otherwise seek legal redress for the violation of their duties. During any period where we lose effective control of the corporate activities of one or more of PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities as a result of such misuse or misappropriation, the business activities of the affected entity could be disrupted and we could lose the economic benefits of that aspect of our business. To the extent those chops are stolen or are used by unauthorized persons or for unauthorized purposes, the corporate governance of these entities could be severely and adversely compromised and the operations of these entities could be significantly and adversely impacted. The financial statements included in this annual report are audited by an auditor who is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the SEC and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in the People’s Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. In May 2013, PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audits and quality control procedures of any auditors operating in China, including our auditor. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. The outcome of the administrative proceedings brought by the SEC against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the SEC’s Rules of Practice against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ work papers related to their audits of certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) authorizes the SEC to deny any person, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC if found by the SEC, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, to have willfully violated any such laws or rules and regulations. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, sanctioning these accounting firms and suspending them from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. On February 12, 2014, the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms appealed the initial administrative law decision to the SEC. The initial administrative law decision will not take effect until and unless it is endorsed by the SEC. The Big Four PRC-based accounting firms can then further appeal the final decision of the SEC through the federal appellate courts. While we cannot predict the outcome of the SEC’s review nor that of any subsequent appeal process, if the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, were denied, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC, and we are unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm which can audit and issue a report on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements for financial statements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to delisting of our ADSs from the New York Stock Exchange or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our ADSs We are an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain whether the special accommodations applicable to emerging growth companies will make our ADSs less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act effective on April 5, 2012, or the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. Most of such requirements relate to disclosures that we would only be required to make if we cease to be a foreign private issuer in the future. Nevertheless, as a foreign private issuer that is an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for up to five fiscal years after the date of our initial public offering. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of our fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of at least US$1 billion; (ii) the last day of our fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, which has completed in June 2014; (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than US$1 billion in non-convertible debt; or (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer” under the Exchange Act. When we are no longer deemed to be an emerging growth company, we will not be entitled to the exemption provided in the JOBS Act discussed above. We cannot predict if investors will find our ADSs less attractive as a result of our reliance on exemptions under the JOBS Act. If some investors find our ADSs less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ADSs. The market price of our ADSs may be volatile. The trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely due to factors beyond our control. This may happen because of broad market and industry factors, such as the performance and fluctuation in the market prices or the underperformance or declining financial results of other companies based in China that have listed their securities in the United States in recent years. The securities of some of these companies have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings, including, in some cases, substantial price declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of other Chinese companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward Chinese companies listed in the United States, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or matters of other Chinese companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have conducted any inappropriate activities. In addition, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to our operating performance, which may have a material and adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. In addition, the market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the performance or market valuation of other human resources service companies; 33 Table of Contents • announcements by us or our competitors of material acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of our executive officers; • intellectual property litigation; • release or expiration of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; • substantial sale of ordinary shares upon exercise of our stock option awards; and • economic, regulatory or political conditions in China. If securities or industry analysts publish negative reports about our business, the price and trading volume of our securities could decline. The trading market for our securities depends, in part, on the research reports and ratings that securities or industry analysts or ratings agencies publish about us, our business and the human resources services market in China in general. We do not have any control over these analysts or agencies. If one or more of the analysts or agencies who cover us downgrades us or our securities, the price of our securities may decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price of our securities or trading volume to decline. Our dual-class voting structure will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to four votes per share. Each Class B ordinary share is convertible into one Class A ordinary share at any time by the holder thereof in the manner set out in our memorandum and articles of association. Class A ordinary shares are not convertible into Class B ordinary shares under any circumstances. Upon any transfer of Class B ordinary shares by a holder thereof to any person or entity which is not an affiliate of such holder, such Class B ordinary shares shall be automatically and immediately converted into the equal number of Class A ordinary shares in the manner set out in our memorandum and articles of association. Due to the disparate voting powers attached to these two classes of ordinary shares, our pre-IPO shareholders have decisive influence over matters requiring shareholders’ approval, including appointment of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or our assets. Substantial future sales or the expectation of substantial sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. We have ordinary shares outstanding, including ordinary shares represented by ADSs. Except for ADSs sold pursuant to the directed share program, which are subject to a 180-day lock-up period beginning from June 11, 2014, all the ADSs sold in our initial public offering are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act . The remaining ordinary shares outstanding will be available for sale upon the expiration of the 180-day lockup period beginning from June 11, 2014 and, in the case of the ordinary shares that certain option holders will receive when they exercise their share options, subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. Any or all of these shares (other than those held by certain option holders) may be released prior to expiration of the lock-up period at the discretion of the underwriters. To the extent shares are released before the expiration of the lock-up period and these shares are sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. In addition, in connection with the Concurrent Private Placement, we entered into a registration rights agreement with PCV Belge SCS, pursuant to which we granted it Form F-3 registration rights and the piggyback registration rights. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act may result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. 34 Table of Contents We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act, and as such we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. domestic public companies. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain provisions of the securities rules and regulations in the United States that are applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents, or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time; and • the selective disclosure rules by issuers of material nonpublic information under Regulation FD. We are required to file an annual report on Form 20-F within four months of the end of each fiscal year. We intend to publish our results on a quarterly basis as press releases, distributed pursuant to the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE. Press releases relating to financial results and material events will also be furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. However, the information we are required to file with or furnish to the SEC are less extensive and less frequently compared to that required to be filed with the SEC by U.S. domestic issuers. We rely on certain exemptions from corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, which may afford less protection to the holders of our ADSs. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, by virtue of being a foreign private issuer. We are required to provide a brief description of the significant differences between our corporate governance practices and the corporate governance practices required to be followed by U.S. domestic companies under NYSE rules. The standards applicable to us are considerably different than the standards applied to U.S. domestic issuers. The significantly different standards applicable to us do not require us to, among other things: • have a majority of the board be independent (other than due to the requirements for the audit committee under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act); • have a minimum of three members or a person with accounting or related financial management expertise in our audit committee; • have a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee; • have regularly scheduled executive sessions with only non-management directors; and • have at least one executive session of solely independent directors each year. 35 Table of Contents SEEK, our largest shareholder as of the date of this annual report, is entitled to appoint or remove any number of directors such that SEEK Designated Directors (as such term is defined in our memorandum and articles of association) constitute a majority of our board of directors. The foregoing right will terminate at such time as SEEK and its affiliates, in the aggregate, possess less than fifty percent of the total voting power of our issued and outstanding voting shares for a period of 180 consecutive days. As of the date of this annual report, we do not plan to establish a nominating and corporate governance committee. We rely on the home country practice with respect to the majority independent board requirement and the nominating and corporate governance committee requirement under the NYSE rules. As a result, you will not be provided with the benefits of all the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. We are controlled by a small number of our pre-IPO shareholders, whose interests may differ from other shareholders, and our board of directors has the power to discourage a change of control. As of August 31, 2014, SEEK beneficially owns 68,259,876 Class B ordinary shares, or 66.7% of our total outstanding ordinary shares representing 75.5% of the total voting power. Accordingly, SEEK currently has and is expected to continue to have a controlling interest in our company and have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. SEEK will also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. Without the consent of SEEK, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. In addition, our directors and officers could violate their fiduciary duties by diverting business opportunities from us to themselves or others. The interests of our largest shareholders may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. The concentration in ownership of our ordinary shares may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our articles of association contain provisions that limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares. These preferred shares may have better voting rights than our ordinary shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise, and could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be diluted. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights as our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying Class A ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is 14 days. To allow ADS holders to act through the depositary to exercise their rights, we typically provide 30 days’ notice. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your Class A ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote, where such failure or other actions result from reasons beyond their control. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting unless you withdraw your ordinary shares by canceling your ADSs. 36 Table of Contents You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if such distribution is illegal or if any required government approval cannot be obtained in order to make such distribution available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful, inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future and you may have to rely on price appreciation of our ADSs for any return on your investment. We currently intend to retain most, if not all, of our available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not rely on an investment in our ADSs as a source of future dividend income. Our board of directors has complete discretion as to whether to distribute dividends. Even if our board of directors decides to declare and pay dividends, the timing, amount and form of future dividends, if any, will depend on, among other things, our future results of operations and cash flow, our capital requirements and surplus, the amount of distributions, if any, received by us from our subsidiaries, our financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Accordingly, the return on your investment in our ADSs will likely depend entirely upon any future price appreciation of our ADSs. There is no guarantee that our ADSs will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased the ADSs. You may not realize a return on your investment in our ADSs and you may even lose your entire investment in our ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. 37 Table of Contents We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States investors in the ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our assets, which may be determined based, in part, on the market value of our ordinary shares and ADSs, and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC. Under U.S. federal income tax law, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of our assets (based on the average quarterly value of our assets during the taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Based on our current income and assets and projections as to the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs, we do not expect to be classified as a PFIC for the current taxable year or in the foreseeable future. While we do not anticipate being a PFIC, changes in the composition of our income or assets or the value of our assets may cause us to become a PFIC for the current or any subsequent taxable year. Although the law in this regard is not entirely clear, we treat our consolidated affiliated entities as being owned by us for United States federal income tax purposes, because we control their management decisions and we are entitled to substantially all of the economic benefits associated with these entities, and, as a result, we consolidate their results of operations in our consolidated U.S. GAAP financial statements. If it were determined, however, that we are not the owner of our consolidated affiliated entities for United States federal income tax purposes, we may be treated as a PFIC for the current and any subsequent taxable years. Because of the uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and because PFIC status is a factual determination made annually after the close of each taxable year on the basis of the composition of our income and the value of our active versus passive assets, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year. The overall level of our passive assets may also be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend our liquid assets and the cash raised in our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement. Under circumstances where revenues from activities that produce passive income significantly increase relative to our revenues from activities that produce non-passive income or where, and if we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for active purposes, our risk of being classified as a PFIC may substantially increase. If we were to be or become a PFIC, a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10.F. Additional Information—Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—General”) may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under United States federal income tax rules. Each U.S. Holder is urged to consult its tax advisor concerning the United States federal income tax consequences of purchasing, holding and disposing of ADSs or ordinary shares if we are or become a PFIC, including the possibility of making a mark-to-market election or “deemed sale” election and the unavailability of the election to treat us as a qualified electing fund. For more information, see “Item 10.F. Additional Information—Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. 38 Table of Contents We have been advised by our Cayman Islands legal counsel that the courts of the Cayman Islands are unlikely (i) to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any State; and (ii) in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, to impose liabilities against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any State, so far as the liabilities imposed by those provisions are penal in nature. In those circumstances, although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, the courts of the Cayman Islands will recognize and enforce a foreign money judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits based on the principle that a judgment of a competent foreign court imposes upon the judgment debtor an obligation to pay the sum for which judgment has been given provided certain conditions are met. For a foreign judgment to be enforced in the Cayman Islands, such judgment must be final and conclusive and for a liquidated sum, and must not be in respect of taxes or a fine or penalty, inconsistent with a Cayman Islands judgment in respect of the same matter, impeachable on the grounds of fraud or obtained in a manner, and or be of a kind the enforcement of which is, contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands (awards of punitive or multiple damages may well be held to be contrary to public policy). A Cayman Islands court may stay enforcement proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. There is recent Privy Council authority (which is binding on the Cayman Islands court) in the context of a reorganization plan approved by a New York bankruptcy court which suggests that due to the universal nature of bankruptcy/insolvency proceedings, foreign money judgments obtained in foreign bankruptcy/insolvency proceedings may be enforced without applying the principles outlined above. However, a more recent English Supreme court authority (which is highly persuasive but not binding on the Cayman Islands court), has expressly rejected that approach in the context of a default judgment obtained in an adversary proceeding brought in the New York Bankruptcy court by the receivers of the bankruptcy debtor against a third party, and which would not have been enforceable upon the application of the traditional common law principles summarized above and held that foreign money judgments obtained in bankruptcy/insolvency proceedings should be enforced by applying the principles set out above, and not by the simple exercise of the court’s discretion. Those cases have now been considered by the Cayman Islands court. The Cayman Islands court was not asked to consider the specific question of whether a judgment of a bankruptcy court in an adversary proceeding would be enforceable in the Cayman Islands, but it did endorse the need for active assistance of overseas bankruptcy proceedings. Our Cayman Islands legal counsel understands that the Cayman Islands court’s decision in that case has been appealed and it remains the case that the law regarding the enforcement of bankruptcy/insolvency related judgments is still in a state of uncertainty. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. We have also been advised by our Cayman Islands legal counsel that, under Cayman Islands law, the register of members (shareholders) is prima facie evidence of title to shares and this register would not record a third party interest in such shares. However, there is a risk that the register does not reflect the correct legal positions of the members (shareholders) because there are certain limited circumstances where an application may be made to a Cayman Islands court for a determination on whether the register of members reflects the correct legal position. Further, Cayman Islands courts have the power to order that the register of members maintained by a company should be rectified where they consider that the register of members is not accurate. As far as we are aware, such applications are rarely made in the Cayman Islands, but if this were to occur in respect of the ordinary shares, then the validity of such shares may be subject to re-examination by a Cayman Islands court. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us, our management or the experts named in this annual report. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. It may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us in the Cayman Islands if you believe your rights under the U.S. securities laws have been infringed. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state and it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 39 Table of Contents We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company, particularly after we cease to qualify as an emerging growth company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NYSE, impose various requirements on the corporate governance practices of public companies. As a company with less than US$1.0 billion in revenues for our last fiscal year, we qualify as an “emerging growth company” pursuant to the JOBS Act. An emerging growth company may take advantage of specified reduced reporting and other requirements that are otherwise applicable generally to public companies. These provisions include exemption from the auditor attestation requirement under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the assessment of the emerging growth company’s internal control over financial reporting. The JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company does not need to comply with any new or revised financial accounting standards until such date that a private company is otherwise required to comply with such new or revised accounting standards. However, we have elected to “opt out” of this provision and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards as required when they are adopted for public companies. This decision to opt out of the extended transition period under the JOBS Act is irrevocable. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. After we are no longer an emerging growth company, we expect to incur significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the other rules and regulations of the SEC. In the past, shareholders of a public company often brought securities class action suits against the company following periods of instability in the market price of that company’s securities. If we were to be involved in a class action suit, it could divert a significant amount of our management’s attention and other resources from our business and operations, which could harm our results of operations and require us to incur significant expenses to defend the suit. Any such class action suit, whether or not successful, could harm our reputation and restrict our ability to raise capital in the future. In addition, if a claim is successfully made against us, we may be required to pay significant damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 