Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading “Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements” before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks in our business Our operating margins are narrow. Our predecessor’s total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, were $4.8 billion; and our predecessor’s cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation) and operating expenses for the same period totaled $4.5 billion. Fuel sales in particular generate low gross margins. Our predecessor’s fuel sales for the year ended December 31, 2006, were $3.9 billion and our predecessor generated a gross profit on fuel sales of $144 million. A small percentage decline in our future revenues or increase in our future expenses, especially revenues and expenses related to fuel, may have a material adverse effect upon our income or may cause us to experience losses. An interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. To mitigate the risks arising from fuel price volatility, we generally maintain limited inventories of fuel. Accordingly, an interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. Interruptions in fuel supplies may be caused by local conditions, such as a malfunction in a particular pipeline or terminal, or by national or international conditions, such as government rationing, acts of terrorism, war and the like. Any limitation in available fuel supplies which caused a decline in truck freight shipments or which caused a limit on the fuel we can offer for sale may have a material adverse effect on our sales of fuel and non-fuel products and services or may cause us to experience losses. Our storage and dispensing of petroleum products create the potential for environmental damages, and compliance with environmental laws may be costly. Our business is subject to laws relating to the protection of the environment. The travel centers we operate include fueling areas, truck repair and maintenance facilities and tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous substances, all of which create the potential for environmental damage. As a result, we regularly incur environmental clean up costs. Our predecessor’s balance sheet as of December 31, 2006, included an accrued liability of $10.8 million for environmental remediation costs. Because of the uncertainties associated with environmental expenditures, it is possible that future expenditures could be substantially higher than this amount. Environmental laws expose us to the possibility that we may become liable to reimburse the government or third parties for damages and costs they incur in connection with environmental hazards. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations may be enacted or how existing laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our products or activities in the future; more stringent laws, more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws in the future could cause us to experience losses. 20 In addition, under the lease between us and Hospitality Trust, we have agreed to indemnify Hospitality Trust from all environmental liabilities it may incur arising at any of our travel centers during the term of the lease. We have limited control of our franchisees. Ten travel centers which we lease from Hospitality Trust are subleased to franchisees. An additional 13 travel centers are owned and operated by franchisees. The rent and royalties we receive from these franchisees represent a significant part of our net income. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the rent and royalty revenues generated from these franchisee relationships was $10.0 million. Various laws and our existing franchise contracts limit the control we may exercise over our franchisees’ business activities. A failure by our franchisees to pay rents and royalties to us may have a material adverse effect upon our financial results or may cause us to experience losses. Risks arising from our formation and certain relationships We have been recently reorganized. We are a recently reorganized business. Our board and senior management include persons associated with Hospitality Trust and its affiliates and with Reit Management as well as former executives of our predecessor. This management team has no prior experience working together and they may not be able to do so successfully. Although we have implemented a retention bonus plan for our executives who are former employees of our predecessor, we can provide no assurance that we will in fact retain any or all of these persons. The restructuring of our business prior to the spin off will result in costs and cash outlays which are significantly higher than those of our predecessor and may result in a prolonged period of substantial losses. On a pro forma basis for the year ended December 31, 2006, we incurred expenses of $176.8 million under the terms of our lease agreement and our management and shared services agreement. This amount is significantly higher than the depreciation, which is a non-cash expense, and interest expenses that were incurred by our predecessor that we will avoid after the spin off transaction. In addition, our lease agreement with Hospitality Trust requires us to make capital expenditures to maintain the travel centers we lease and the expenditures we make for improvements that are in excess of the $125 million that we may draw from Hospitality Trust will either be paid by us directly without reimbursement or, if they are reimbursed by Hospitality Trust, increase our rent expense. These additional expenses and cash outlays may result in future substantial losses and negative cash flow. If we incur material losses or negative cash flow, and these losses or negative cash flows persist over a substantial period of time, we may suffer material negative impacts on our business, including but not limited to our ability to maintain our travel centers and make payments under our lease agreement with Hospitality Properties, and the market price of our common shares may decline substantially. Our creation was, and our continuing business will be, subject to conflicts of interest with Hospitality Trust and Reit Management. Our creation was, and our continuing business will be, subject to conflicts of interest, as follows: · Two of our directors were trustees of Hospitality Trust at the time we were created. · We have five directors, one of whom, Barry M. Portnoy, also is a trustee of Hospitality Trust and the majority owner of Reit Management, one of whom, Arthur G. Koumantzelis, is a former trustee of Hospitality Trust, and one of whom, Thomas M. O’Brien, is a former executive officer of Hospitality Trust. · Mr. O’Brien, who serves as our President and Chief Executive Officer, is also an employee of Reit Management. Another Reit Management employee, John R. Hoadley, is our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Reit Management is the manager for Hospitality Trust and we purchase services from Reit Management pursuant to our management and shared services agreement. 21 These conflicts may have caused, and in the future may cause, adverse effects on our business, including: · Our lease with Hospitality Trust may be on terms less favorable to us than a lease which was the result of arm’s length negotiations. · The terms of our management and shared services agreement with Reit Management may be less favorable to us than could be achieved on an arm’s length basis. · Future business dealings between us and Hospitality Trust, Reit Management and their affiliates may be on terms less favorable to us than could be achieved on an arm’s length basis. · We may have to compete with Hospitality Trust, Reit Management and their affiliates for the time and attention of Messrs. Portnoy, O’Brien and Hoadley. Our lease with Hospitality Trust requires that we indemnify Hospitality Trust from various liabilities. Our lease with Hospitality Trust requires that we pay for, and indemnify Hospitality Trust from, liabilities associated with the ownership or operation of our leased travel centers which may arise during the term of our lease. Accordingly our business will be subject to all our business operating risks and all the risks associated with real estate including: · costs associated with uninsured damages, including damages for which insurance may be unavailable or unavailable on commercially reasonable terms; · costs and damages arising from pending and future litigation; · costs that may be required for maintenance and repair of the travel centers; and · costs due to compliance with and changes in laws and other regulations, including environmental laws and the Americans with Disabilities Act. Our relationships with Hospitality Trust and Reit Management may limit the growth of our business. In connection with the spin off, we entered agreements which prohibit us from acquiring or financing real estate in competition with Hospitality Trust or other affiliates of Reit Management, unless those investment opportunities are first offered to Hospitality Trust or those other entities. These restrictions may make it difficult or impossible for us to alter our business strategy to include investments in real estate. Also, because our lease with Hospitality Trust limits our ability to incur debt, ends in 2022 and prohibits ownership of more than 9.8% of our shares by any party, we may be unable to independently finance future growth opportunities. Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions may prevent you from receiving a takeover premium. Our limited liability company agreement, or LLC agreement, places restrictions on the ability of any person or group to acquire beneficial ownership of more than 9.8% (in number of shares, vote or value, whichever is most restrictive) of any class or series of our equity securities. The terms of our lease with Hospitality Trust and our management and shared services agreement with Reit Management provide that our rights under these agreements may be cancelled by Hospitality Trust and Reit Management, respectively, upon the acquisition by any person or group of more than 9.8% of our voting shares, and upon other change in control events, as defined in those agreements. If the breach of these ownership limitations causes a lease default, shareholders causing the default may 22 become liable to us or to other shareholders for damages. These agreements and other provisions in our limited liability company agreement may increase the difficulty of acquiring control of us by means of a tender offer, open market purchases, a proxy fight or otherwise. Other provisions in our governing documents which may deter takeover proposals include the following: · staggered terms for members of our board of directors; · the power of our board of directors, without a shareholders’ vote, to authorize and issue additional shares and classes or series of shares on terms that it determines; · a 75% shareholder vote and cause requirements for removal of directors; and · advance notice procedures with respect to nominations of directors and shareholder proposals. For any of these reasons, shareholders may be unable to cause a change of control of us or to realize a change of control premium for their common shares. We may be unable to meet financial reporting and internal control standards for a publicly owned company. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is the process designed by, or under the supervision of, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and effected by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and dispositions of assets; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with the authorization of our management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. We may identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2007, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, our management will be required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and, beginning for the year ending December 31, 2008, we will be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to our management’s assessment and the design and operating 23 effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to either identify a material weakness or otherwise conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the value of our shares could be adversely affected which, in turn, could harm our business, have an adverse effect on our future ability to raise capital and cause the price of our traded securities to decline. 