ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information included in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are directly dependent upon the condition of the aerospace industry, which is closely tied to global economic conditions, and if the volatility in the global financial markets were to result in a slowdown in the current economic recovery or a return to a recession, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Demand for the products and services we offer are directly tied to the delivery of new aircraft, aircraft utilization, and repair of existing aircraft, which, in turn, are impacted by global economic conditions. For example 2009, revenue passenger miles, or RPMs, on commercial aircraft declined due to the global recession. During the same period, the industry experienced declines in large commercial, regional and business jet deliveries. While demand for commercial and regional jets has fully recovered, business jet orders and deliveries have recovered more slowly. A slowdown in the current economic recovery, or a return to a recession, would negatively impact the aerospace industry, and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Military spending, including spending on the products we sell, is dependent upon national defense budgets, and a reduction in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During the year ended September 30, 2014, approximately 37% of our net sales were related to military aircraft. The military market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the U.S. Department of Defense, or DoD, budget. Future DoD budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy by the current and future presidential administrations and Congress, the U.S. Government's budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the U.S. military presence in overseas operations and possible political pressure to reduce U.S. Government military spending, each of which could cause the DoD budget to decline. A decline in U.S. military expenditures could result in a reduction in military aircraft production, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, military spending may be negatively impacted by the Budget Control Act of 2011, or the Budget Control Act, which was passed in August 2011. The Budget Control Act established limits on U.S. government discretionary spending, including a reduction of defense spending by approximately $490 billion between the 2012 and 2021 U.S. government fiscal years, and also provided that the defense budget would face "sequestration" cuts of up to an additional $500 billion during that same period to the extent that discretionary spending limits were exceeded. The impact of sequestration was reduced with respect to the government's 2014 and 2015 fiscal years, in exchange for extending sequestration into fiscal years 2022 and 2023, following the enactment of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 on December 26, 2013. Sequestration is currently scheduled to resume in the government's 2016 fiscal year. We are unable to predict the impact the cuts associated with Sequestration will ultimately have on funding for the military programs which we support. However, such cuts could result in 13 Table of Contents reductions, delays or cancellations of these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the U.S. Government directly and as a subcontractor, which could lead to a reduction in our net sales from, or the profitability of our supply arrangements with, the U.S. Government. Companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to U.S. Government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. We contract directly with the U.S. Government and are also a subcontractor to customers contracting with the U.S. Government. Accordingly, the U.S. Government may unilaterally suspend or prohibit us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts or audit our contract- related costs and fees. In addition, most of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts can be terminated by the U.S. Government or the contracting party, as applicable, at its convenience. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. In addition, we are subject to U.S. government inquiries and investigations, including periodic audits of costs that we determine are reimbursable under government contracts. U.S. government agencies routinely audit government contractors to review performance under contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of and compliance with internal control systems and policies. Any costs found to be misclassified or inaccurately allocated to a specific contract are not reimbursable, and to the extent already reimbursed, must be refunded. Also, any inadequacies in our systems and policies could result in payments being withheld, penalties and reduced future business. We are also subject to the federal False Claims Act, which provides for substantial civil penalties and treble damages where a contractor presents a false or fraudulent claim to the government for payment. Actions under the False Claims Act may be brought by the government or by other persons on behalf of the government (who may then share in any recovery). We do not have guaranteed future sales of the products we sell and when we enter into Contracts with our customers we generally take the risk of cost overruns, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and operating margins may be negatively affected if we purchase more products than our customers require, product costs increase unexpectedly, we experience high start-up costs on new Contracts or our Contracts are terminated. A majority of our Contracts are long-term, fixed-price agreements with no guarantee of future sales volumes, and they may be terminated for convenience on short notice by our customers, often without meaningful penalties, provided that we are reimbursed for the cost of any inventory specifically procured for the customer. In addition, we purchase inventory based on our forecasts of anticipated future customer demand. As a result, we may take the risk of having excess inventory in the event that our customers do not place orders consistent with our forecasts, particularly with respect to inventory that has a more limited shelf-life. We also run the risk of not being able to pass along or otherwise recover unexpected increases in our product costs, including as a result of commodity price increases, which may increase above our established prices at the time we entered into the Contract and established prices for products we provide. When we are awarded new Contracts, particularly JIT contracts, we may incur high costs, including salary and overtime costs to hire and train on-site personnel, in the start-up phase of our performance. In the event that we purchase more products than our customers require, product costs increase unexpectedly, we experience high start-up costs on new Contracts or our Contracts are terminated, our business, financial condition, results of operations and operating margins could be negatively affected. 14 Table of Contents If we lose significant customers, significant customers materially reduce their purchase orders or significant programs on which we rely are delayed, scaled back or eliminated, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our top ten customers for the year ended September 30, 2014 accounted for approximately 45% of our net sales. During fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012 no individual customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales. A reduction in purchasing by or loss of one of our larger customers for any reason, such as changes in manufacturing or procurement practices, loss of a customer as a result of the acquisition of such customer by a purchaser who does not fully utilize a distribution model or uses a competitor, in-sourcing by customers, a transfer of business to a competitor, an economic downturn, failure to adequately service our clients, decreased production or a strike, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As an example of changes in manufacturing practices that could impact us, OEMs such as Boeing and Airbus are currently incorporating an increasing amount of composite materials in the aircraft they manufacture. Aircraft utilizing composite materials generally require the use of significantly fewer C class aerospace parts than new aircraft made of more traditional non-composite materials, although the parts used are generally higher priced than C class aerospace parts used in non-composite aircraft structures. As Boeing, Airbus and other customers increase their reliance on composite materials, they may materially reduce their purchase orders from us. As an example of the potential loss of business due to customer in-sourcing, it is our understanding that Boeing is undertaking an initiative to cause its first and second tier suppliers to source certain Boeing-specific materials, including fasteners, directly from Boeing, rather than through distributors such as us. If Boeing's initiative is broadly implemented, a portion of our sales to these Boeing suppliers, and consequently our business, financial condition and results of operations, could be adversely affected. While we believe that we have a diversified customer and aircraft program base, we expect to derive a significant portion of our net sales from certain aerospace programs in their early production stages. In particular, our future growth will be dependent, in part, upon our sales to various OEMs and subcontractors related to the Boeing 787 and the Lockheed Martin Joint Strike Fighter, or JSF. If production of any of the programs we support is terminated or delayed, or if our sales to customers affiliated with these programs are reduced or eliminated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. For example, the Boeing 787 program was grounded by a Federal Aviation Administration order in 2013 as a result of battery related issues. If additional safety risks or other quality concerns were to result slowed or suspended production of the 787 program in the future, it could have an adverse effect on our future earnings and result in a potential write-off of inventory currently on hand. In addition, during fiscal year 2014, we modified and extended a contract with an existing customer that may result in up to a $50 million reduction in net sales to the customer during fiscal year 2015 compared to fiscal year 2014 We operate in a highly competitive market and our failure to compete effectively may negatively impact our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies, including divisions of larger companies and certain of our suppliers, some of which may have significantly greater financial resources than we do, and therefore may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements than we can. Our competitors consist of both U.S. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. We believe that our ability to compete depends on superior customer service and support, on-time delivery, sufficient inventory availability, competitive pricing and effective quality assurance programs. 15 Table of Contents In order to remain competitive, we may have to adjust the prices of some of the products and services we sell and continue investing in our procurement, supply-chain management and sales and marketing functions, the costs of which could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we face competition for our Contract customers from both competitors in our industry and the in-sourcing of supply-chain management by our customers themselves. If any of our Contract customers decides to in-source the services we provide or switch to one of our competitors, we would be adversely affected. We may be unable to effectively manage our inventory as we grow, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods and intend to continue to grow our business by increasing our product offerings and expanding our customer base. Due to the lead times required by many of our suppliers, we typically order products in advance of expected sales, and the volume of such orders may be significant as a result of our growth strategy. Lead times generally range from several weeks up to two years, depending on industry conditions, which make it difficult to successfully manage our inventory as we plan for expected growth. For example, we believe that the strategic inventory purchases we made during fiscal 2013 and 2014, combined with lower than expected demand, negatively impacted our cash flows. In the future, if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory as we attempt to grow our business, our cash flows may be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If suppliers are unable to supply us with the products we sell in a timely manner, in adequate quantities and/or at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to meet the demands of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inventory is primarily sourced directly from producers and manufacturing firms, and we depend on the availability of large supplies of the products we sell. Our largest supplier for the year ended September 30, 2014 was Precision Castparts. During fiscal 2014, approximately 15% of the products we purchased were from Precision Castparts and 15% were purchased from Alcoa Fastening Systems. In addition, our ten largest suppliers during fiscal 2014 accounted for approximately 43% of our purchases. These manufacturers and producers may experience capacity constraints that result in their being unable to supply us with products in a timely manner, in adequate quantities and/or at a reasonable cost. Contributing factors to manufacturer capacity constraints include, among other things, industry or customer demands in excess of machine capacity, labor shortages and changes in raw material flows. Any significant interruption in the supply of these products or termination of our relationship with any of our suppliers could result in us being unable to meet the demands of our customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly dependent on complex information technology. The provision and application of IT is an increasingly critical aspect of our business. Among other things, our IT systems must frequently interact with those of our customers, suppliers and logistics providers. Our future success will depend on our continued ability to employ IT systems that meet our customers' demands. The failure or disruption of the hardware or software that supports our IT systems, including redundancy systems, could significantly harm our ability to service our customers and cause economic losses for which we could be held liable and which could damage our reputation. Our competitors may have or may develop IT systems that permit them to be more cost effective and otherwise better situated to meet customer demands than IT systems we are able to acquire or develop. Larger competitors may be able to develop or license IT systems more cost effectively than we 16 Table of Contents can by spreading the cost across a larger revenue base, and competitors with greater financial resources may be able to acquire or develop IT systems that we cannot afford. If we fail to meet the demands of our customers or protect against disruptions of our IT systems, we may lose customers, which could seriously harm our business and adversely affect our operating results and operating cash flow. We may be unable to retain personnel who are key to our operations. Our success, among other things, is dependent on our ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified senior management and other key personnel. Competition for key personnel is intense, and our ability to attract and retain key personnel is dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. The inability to hire, develop and retain these key employees may adversely affect our operations. There are risks inherent in international operations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While the majority of our operations are based in the United States, we have significant international operations, with facilities in Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Malaysia, Mexico, Philippines, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea, Turkey and the United Kingdom, and customers throughout North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. For the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, 43% and 42% of our net sales were derived from customers located outside the United States, respectively. Our international operations are subject to, without limitation, the following risks: • the burden of complying with multiple and possibly conflicting laws and any unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • political risks, including risks of loss due to civil disturbances, acts of terrorism, acts of war, guerilla activities and insurrection; • unstable economic, financial and market conditions and increased expenses as a result of inflation, or higher interest rates; • difficulties in enforcement of third-party contractual obligations and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; and • potentially adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws, requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries and restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries. In addition, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies affect the dollar value of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries, with these fluctuations being included in a separate component of stockholders' equity. At September 30, 2014, we reported a cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment of approximately $0.6 million in stockholders' equity as a result of foreign currency adjustments, and we may incur additional adjustments in future periods. In addition, operating results of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars for purposes of our statement of comprehensive income at average monthly exchange rates. Moreover, to the extent that our net sales are not denominated in the same currency as our expenses, our net earnings could be materially adversely affected. For example, a portion of labor, material and overhead costs for our facilities in the United Kingdom, Germany, France and Italy are incurred in British Pounds or Euros, but in certain cases the 17 Table of Contents related net sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar or other currencies could result in material fluctuations in foreign currency translation amounts or the U.S. dollar value of transactions and, as a result, our net earnings could be materially adversely affected. Although we at times engage in hedging transactions to manage or reduce our foreign exchange risk, our attempts to manage our foreign currency exchange risk may not be successful and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. During fiscal 2012 and 2013, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the British pound resulted in a negative impact on net sales of approximately $2.1 million and $1.5 million, respectively. During fiscal 2014, the U.S. dollar weakened slightly against the pound, resulting a positive impact on net sales of approximately $15.5 million. Our international operations also cause our business to be subject to the U.S. Export Control regime and similar regulations in other countries, in particular in the United Kingdom. In the United States, items of a commercial nature are generally subject to regulatory control by the U.S. Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security and to Export Administration Regulations, and other international trade regulations may apply as well. Additionally, we are not permitted to export some of the products we sell. In the future, regulatory authorities may require us to obtain export licenses or other export authorizations to export the products we sell abroad, depending upon the nature of items being exported, as well as the country to which the export is to be made. We cannot assure you that any of our applications for export licenses or other authorizations will be granted or approved. Furthermore, the export license and export authorization process is often time-consuming. Violation of export control regulations could subject us to fines and other penalties, such as losing the ability to export for a period of years, which would limit our sales and significantly hinder our attempts to expand our business internationally. Our international operations require us to comply with anti-corruption and trade control laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions, and our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions, and our failure to successfully comply with these rules and regulations may expose us to liabilities. These laws and regulations apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict our operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities. In particular, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and, in some cases, the UK Bribery Act 2010, or Bribery Act. These laws generally prohibit us from corruptly providing anything of value, directly or indirectly, to government officials for the purposes of improperly influencing official decisions or improperly obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. Some laws, such as the Bribery Act, also prohibit commercial bribery and the acceptance of bribes, and the FCPA further requires publicly traded companies to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the transactions of the Company. As part of our business, we may deal with governments and state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered government officials for purposes of the FCPA, the Bribery Act or other applicable anti-corruption laws. In addition, some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have elevated levels of corruption. As a result of the above activities, we are exposed to the risk of violating anti-corruption laws. As an exporter, we must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the export of products, services and technology from the United States and other countries having jurisdiction over our operations. In the U.S., these laws include, among others, the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (EAR) administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) administered by the U.S. Department of 18 Table of Contents State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC), and trade sanctions, regulations and embargoes administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control. These laws and regulations may require us to obtain individual validated licenses from the relevant agency to export, re-export, or transfer commodities, software, technology, or services to certain jurisdictions. Violations of these legal requirements are punishable by criminal fines and imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions, debarment from government contracts, seizure and forfeiture of unlawful attempted exports, and/or denial of export privileges, as well as other remedial measures. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist us and our personnel to comply with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our customers were to become insolvent or experience substantial financial difficulties, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If any of the customers with whom we do business becomes insolvent or experiences substantial financial difficulties we may be unable to timely collect amounts owed to us by such customers and may not be able to sell the inventory we have purchased for such customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our suppliers or our customers may experience damage to or disruptions at our or their facilities caused by natural disasters and other factors, which may result in our business, financial condition and results of operations being adversely affected. Several of our facilities or those of our suppliers and customers could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, hurricanes, fire, power loss, telecommunication and information systems failure or other similar events. Should insurance be insufficient to recover all such losses or should we be unable to reestablish our operations, or if our customers or suppliers were to experience material disruptions in their operations as a result of such events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are dependent on access to and the performance of third-party package delivery companies. Our ability to provide efficient distribution of the products we sell to our customers is an integral component of our overall business strategy. We do not maintain our own delivery networks, and instead rely on third-party package delivery companies. We cannot assure you that we will always be able to ensure access to preferred delivery companies or that these companies will continue to meet our needs or provide reasonable pricing terms. In addition, if the package delivery companies on which we rely experience delays resulting from inclement weather or other disruptions, we may be unable to maintain products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant labor dispute involving us or one or more of our customers or suppliers, or a labor dispute that otherwise affects our operations, could reduce our net sales and harm our profitability. Labor disputes involving us or one or more of our customers or suppliers could affect our operations. If our customers or suppliers are unable to negotiate new labor agreements and our customers' or suppliers' plants experience slowdowns or closures as a result, our net sales and profitability could be negatively impacted. 19 Table of Contents While our employees are not currently unionized, they may attempt to form unions in the future, and the employees of our customers, suppliers and other service providers may be, or may in the future be, unionized. We cannot assure you that there will not be any strike, lock out or material labor dispute with respect to our business or those of our customers or suppliers in the future that materially affects our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be materially adversely affected by high fuel prices. Fluctuations in the global supply of crude oil and the possibility of changes in government policies on the production, transportation and marketing of jet fuel make it impossible to predict the future availability and price of jet fuel. In the event there is an outbreak or escalation of hostilities or other conflicts or significant disruptions in oil production or delivery in oil-producing areas or elsewhere, there could be reductions in the production or importation of crude oil and significant increases in the cost of jet fuel. If there were major reductions in the availability of jet fuel or significant increases in its cost, commercial airlines would face increased operating costs. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, airlines are often unable to pass on increases in fuel prices to customers by increasing fares. As a result, an increase in jet fuel could result in a decrease in net income from either lower margins or, if airlines increase ticket fares, lower net sales from reduced airline travel. Decreases in airline profitability could decrease the demand for new commercial aircraft, resulting in delays of or reductions in deliveries of commercial aircraft that utilize the products we sell, and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our financial results may fluctuate from period-to-period, making quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our business, financial condition and results of operations less reliable indicators of our future performance. There are many factors, such as the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry, fluctuations in our ad hoc sales, delays in major aircraft programs, downward pressure on sales prices and changes in the volume of our customers' orders that could cause our financial results to fluctuate from period-to-period. For example, during the year ended September 30, 2014, approximately 28% of our net sales were derived from ad hoc sales. The prices we charge for ad hoc sales are typically higher than the prices under our Contract sales. However, ad hoc customers may not continue to purchase the same amount of products from us as they have in the past, so we cannot assure you that in any given year we will be able to generate similar net sales from our ad hoc customers as we did in the past. We are also actively working to transition customers from ad hoc purchases to Contracts, which may also result in a reduction in ad hoc purchases. In addition, our acquisition of Haas is expected to continue to lower our ad hoc sales as a percentage of net sales. A significant diminution in our ad hoc sales in any given period could result in fluctuations in our financial results and operating margins. As a result of these factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. We will continue to incur a significant increase in costs as a result of operating as a publicly traded company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance requirements and investor needs. As a publicly traded company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the New York Stock Exchange have imposed various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will continue to result in increased legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we believe these rules and regulations make it 20 Table of Contents more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain appropriate levels of director and officer liability insurance. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could result in a material misstatement to our annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended September 30, 2014, we have concluded that there is a material weakness relating to our internal control over financial reporting. The material weakness we identified relates to a lack of a sufficient complement of accounting and financial reporting personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge and experience commensurate with our financial reporting requirements as of September 30, 2014. We have concluded this material weakness was a direct result of the heightened level of activity associated with the integration of the Haas acquisition, combined with the loss of one senior accounting employee due to attrition and the absence of another key accounting employee due to an illness, both of which impacted the execution of our controls during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of September 30, 2014. As described in "Part II—Item 9A—Controls and Procedures" we have begun, and are currently in the process of, remediating the material weakness. However, the measures we have taken and expect to take to improve our internal controls may not be sufficient to address the issue, and we may need to take additional measures to ensure that our internal controls are effective or to ensure that the identified material weakness will not result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements. If we fail to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to implement remediation measures and enhancements for internal controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Further, any material weakness or unsuccessful remediation could affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements. As a result, our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all could be materially and adversely affected, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, our strategic alternatives, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. In addition, perceptions of us among customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others could also be adversely affected. We can give no assurances that the measures we have taken to date, or any future measures we may take, will remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair and accurate presentation of our financial statements included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. We are subject to health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, any violation of which could subject us to significant liabilities and penalties. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and human health and safety, and the handling, transportation, storage, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, including potentially with respect to historical chemical blending and other activities that pre-dated the purchase 21 Table of Contents of the Haas business by Wesco. Actual or alleged violations of EHS laws, or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on operations and substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as, under some EHS laws, the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. Furthermore, we may be liable for the costs of investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination on or from our operations or at off-site locations, including potentially with respect to historical chemical blending and other activities that pre-dated the purchase of the Haas business by Wesco. We may therefore incur additional costs and expenditures beyond those currently anticipated to address all such known and unknown situations under existing and future EHS laws. Governmental, regulatory and societal demands for increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection could result in increased pressure for more stringent regulatory control with respect to the chemical industry. Changes in the Company's regulatory environment, particularly, but not limited to, in the United States, the European Union, Canada and China, could lead to heightened regulatory scrutiny and could adversely impact our ability to supply certain products to and provide supply chain management services to our customers. For instance, the European Union's Registration, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals and analogous non-European Union laws and regulations, or other similar laws and regulations, could result in compliance obligations, fines, ongoing monitoring and other future business activity restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, these concerns could influence public perceptions regarding our operations and our ability to attract and retain customers and employees. Moreover, changes in EHS regulations could inhibit or interrupt our operations, or require us to modify our facilities or operations. Accordingly, environmental or regulatory matters may cause us to incur significant unanticipated losses, costs, capital expenditures or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability. Such losses, costs, capital expenditures or liabilities will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose requirements on our operations. As a result, these losses, costs, capital expenditures or liabilities may be more than currently anticipated. Our operations involve risks associated with the handling, transportation, storage and disposal of chemical products that may increase our operating costs and reduce our profitability. Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our own operations as well as the safety of our customers' operations when we are supplying chemicals and/or providing related supply chain management services, our business is subject to hazards inherent in the handling, transportation, storage and disposal of chemical products. These hazards include: chemical spills, storage tank leaks, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other hazards incident to the handling, transportation, storage and disposal of dangerous chemicals. We are also potentially subject to other hazards, including natural disasters and severe weather; explosions and fires; transportation problems, including interruptions, spills and leaks; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtimes; labor difficulties; and other risks. Many potential hazards can cause bodily injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of our own or our customers' operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities. Furthermore, we are subject to present and future claims with respect to our employees when working within our own operations or when supplying chemicals to and/or providing chemical management services at our customer's operations, other persons, including potentially our customers and their employees, workers' compensation and other matters. We maintain property, business interruption, products liability and casualty insurance policies which we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices, as well as insurance policies covering other types of risks, including pollution legal liability insurance, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. Each of these insurance policies is subject to customary exclusions, deductibles and coverage limits, in accordance with industry standards 22 Table of Contents and practices. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. If the temperature control systems on which we rely fail, certain of the chemical products we sell may become "non-conforming" while in storage or in transit, and as a result, we may be responsible for providing replacement products to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of the chemical products we sell are sensitive to temperature. Our storage facilities and the vehicles maintained by the third-party delivery companies on whom we rely utilize sophisticated temperature control systems to ensure safe storage and handling of these products. If these temperature control systems fail, products that are sensitive to temperature may become non-conforming to the customer's specifications, and we may be responsible for providing replacement products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reputation and/or our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if one of the products we sell causes an aircraft to crash. We may be exposed to liabilities for personal injury, death or property damage as a result of the failure of a product we have sold. We typically agree to indemnify our customers against certain liabilities resulting from the products we sell. Although we may seek third-party indemnification from our suppliers in the event of a product failure, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in doing so and may ultimately be held liable. While we maintain liability insurance to protect us in these situations, our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. We also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any liability for which third-party indemnification is not available that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a crash caused by one of the products we have sold could damage our reputation for selling quality products. We believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft products and believe our reputation for quality assurance is a significant competitive strength. If a crash were to be caused by one of the products we sold, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. We sell products to a highly regulated industry and our business may be adversely affected if our suppliers or customers lose government approvals, if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. The aerospace industry is highly regulated in the United States and in other countries. The FAA prescribes standards and other requirements for aircraft components in the U.S. and comparable agencies, such as the European Aviation Safety Agency, the Civil Aviation Administration of China and the Japanese Civil Aviation Bureau, regulate these matters in other countries. Our suppliers and customers must generally be certified by the FAA, the DoD and similar agencies in foreign countries. If any of our suppliers' government certifications are revoked, we would be less likely to buy such supplier's products, and, as a result, would need to locate a suitable alternate supply of such products, which we may be unable to accomplish on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If any of our customers' government certifications are revoked, their demand for the products we sell would decline. In each case, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents In addition, if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, our suppliers and customers may incur significant expenses to comply with such new regulations or heightened industry oversight. In the case of our suppliers, these expenses may be passed on to us in the form of price increases, which we may be unable to pass along to our customers. In the case of our customers, these expenses may limit their ability to purchase products from us. In each case, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully integrate Haas in a timely fashion or at all and may encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating the two businesses. On February 28, 2014, we completed the acquisition of Haas. Prior to the acquisition, Wesco and Haas were independent organizations, each utilizing different systems, controls, processes and procedures. Following completion of the acquisition of Haas, our ability to fully realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Haas will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the Haas business. The combination of two independent enterprises is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The overall integration may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, loss of client relationships, expenditure of resources and distraction of management and personnel. The difficulties of combining the operations include: • we may not realize any or all of the potential benefits of the acquisition of Haas that could result from combining the businesses of Wesco and Haas; • the acquisition of Haas could have an adverse impact on our relationships with employees, customers and suppliers, and prospective customers or other third parties may delay or decline entering into agreements with us as a result of the acquisition; • management's attention may be diverted to integration matters; • we may devote significant resources to integration; • we may not be able to achieve anticipated cost savings and synergies; • we may have difficulties integrating financial accounting systems, internal controls and standards, procedures and policies (including with respect to Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance); • the assumptions both Wesco and Haas have made regarding critical accounting estimates could be incorrect; and • integration of our IT systems. We may be unable to successfully consummate or integrate future acquisitions, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may consider future acquisitions, some of which could be material to us. Depending upon the acquisition opportunities available, we may need to raise additional funds through the capital markets or arrange for additional debt financing in order to consummate such acquisitions. We may be unable to raise the capital required for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms or at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our total assets include substantial intangible assets, and the write-off of a significant portion of our intangible assets would negatively affect our financial results. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets. At September 30, 2014, goodwill and intangible assets, net represented approximately 45% of our total assets. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of acquired businesses over the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed resulting from acquisitions, including the acquisition by affiliates of The Carlyle Group, or Carlyle. Intangible assets represent trade names, customer backlogs, non-compete agreements and 24 Table of Contents customer relationships. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there has been impairment in the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. If our testing identifies impairment under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, the impairment charge we calculate would result in a charge to operating earnings. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill and unamortized identified intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, which could be material. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business. As of September 30, 2014, our total long-term indebtedness outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities (as defined in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Reserves—Credit Facilities—Senior Secured Credit Facilities") was approximately $1,102.7 million, which was approximately 52.5% of our total capitalization. In addition, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the senior secured credit facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. In addition, all of our debt under the senior secured credit facilities bears interest at floating rates. Accordingly, in the event that interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. Our level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facilities or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. If we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital and cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing any such actions or that any actions we take will allow us to stay in compliance with the terms of our indebtedness. 25 Table of Contents The terms of the senior secured credit facilities and other debt instruments may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The senior secured credit facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. The senior secured credit facilities include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; • pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; • make investments; • sell assets; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; • incur or allow existing liens; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale leaseback transactions; • change fiscal periods; • enter into agreements that restrict the granting of liens or the making of subsidiary distributions; • create unrestricted subsidiaries; and • engage in certain business activities. In addition, the senior secured credit facilities contain financial maintenance covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio covenant and a minimum interest coverage ratio covenant. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facilities. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under the senior secured credit facilities also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. In addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, the lenders under those facilities will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash. If the debt under the senior secured credit facilities was to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. Risks Related to our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your common stock at or above the price you paid for your common stock. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; • the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; 26 Table of Contents • changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry; • the failure of analysts to cover our common stock; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • the impact on our profitability temporarily caused by the time lag between when we experience cost increases until these increases flow through cost of sales because of our method of accounting for inventory; • material litigation or government investigations; • changes in general conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; • changes in key personnel; • sales of common stock by us or members of our management team; • the termination of lock-up agreements with our directors, officers and stockholders; • the granting or exercise of employee stock options; • the volume of trading in our common stock; and • the realization of any risks described under "Risk Factors." In addition, in the past five years, the U.S. stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our Company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Further, in the past, market fluctuations and price declines in a company's stock have led to securities class action litigations. If such a suit were to arise, it could have a substantial cost and divert our resources regardless of the outcome. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business may vary widely and may not predict accurate results, but will likely have an effect on the trading price of our common stock. If an industry analyst decides not to cover our Company, or if an industry analyst decides to cease covering our Company at some point in the future, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. If an industry analyst downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly in response. We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock, so you may not receive funds without selling your common stock. We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock. We generally intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to 27 Table of Contents the payment of dividends and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. The senior secured credit facilities also effectively limit our ability to pay dividends. Accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your common stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment. You may not receive a gain on your investment when you sell your common stock and you may lose the entire amount of the investment. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, as a result, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our Company may deem advantageous. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors, with three classes of directors; • authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; • limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors; • prohibit our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our Company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those you desire. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities may dilute your ownership in us and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We and our existing stockholders may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock or convertible debt securities to finance future acquisitions. As of September 30, 2014, we had 950,000,000 shares of common stock authorized and 97,010,286 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, we have 2,638,256 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of options outstanding as of September 30, 2014 and 4,000,819 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our 2011 Equity Incentive Award Plan. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including sales pursuant to Carlyle's registration rights and shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 28 Table of Contents 