Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading ‘‘Warning Concerning Forward-Looking Statements’’ before deciding whether to invest in our securities. We have incurred losses, and these losses may continue. We have incurred losses in each of our fiscal years since inception. Losses continued to be incurred in 2010. There is no assurance that profitability will be achieved in the near term, if at all. 9 Because unfavorable utility regulations make the installation of our systems more difficult or less economical, any slowdown in the utility deregulation process would be an impediment to the growth of our business. In the past, many electric utility companies have raised opposition to DG, a critical element of our On-Site Utility business. Such resistance has generally taken the form of unrealistic standards for interconnection, and the use of targeted rate structures as disincentives to combined generation of on-site power and heating or cooling services. A DG company’s ability to obtain reliable and affordable back-up power through interconnection with the grid is essential to our business model. Utility policies and regulations in most states are often not prepared to accommodate widespread on-site generation. These barriers erected by electric utility companies and unfavorable regulations, where applicable, make more difficult or uneconomic our ability to connect to the electric grid at customer sites and are an impediment to the growth of our business. Development of our business could be adversely affected by any slowdown or reversal in the utility deregulation process or by difficulties in negotiating backup power supply agreements with electric providers in the areas where we intend to do business. Our onsite utility concept is largely unproven and may not be accepted by a sufficient number of customers. The sale of cogeneration and cooling equipment has been successfully carried out for more than a decade. However, our On-Site Utility concept (i.e., the sale of on-site energy services, rather than equipment) is still in an early stage of implementation. Unresolved issues include the pricing of energy services and the structuring of contracts to provide cost savings to customers and optimum financial returns to us. There is no assurance that we will be successful in developing a profitable On-Site Utility business model, and failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. The economic viability of our projects depends on the price spread between fuel and electricity, and the variability of the prices of these components creates a risk that our projects will be uneconomic. The economic viability of DG projects is dependent upon the price spread between fuel and electricity prices. Volatility in one component of the spread, the cost of natural gas and other fuels (e.g., propane or distillate oil) can be managed to a greater or lesser extent by means of futures contracts. However, the regional rates charged for both base load and peak electricity services may decline periodically due to excess capacity arising from over-building of utility power plants or recessions in economic activity. Any sustained weakness in electricity prices could significantly limit the market for our cogeneration, cooling equipment and On-Site Utility energy services. We may fail to make sales to certain prospective customers because of resistance from facilities management personnel to the outsourcing of their service function. Any outsourcing of non-core activities by institutional or commercial entities will generally lead to reductions in permanent on-site staff employment. As a result, our proposals to implement On-Site Utility contracts are likely to encounter strong initial resistance from the facilities managers whose jobs will be threatened by energy outsourcing. The growth of our business will depend upon our ability to overcome such barriers among prospective customers. Future government regulations, such as increased emissions standards, safety standards and taxes, may adversely impact the economics of our business. The operation of DG equipment at our customers’ sites may be subject to future changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations (e.g., emissions, safety, taxes, etc.). Any such new or substantially altered rules and standards may adversely affect our revenues, profits and general financial condition. If we cannot expand our network of skilled technical support personnel, we will be unable to grow our business. Each additional customer site for our services requires the initial installation and subsequent maintenance and service of equipment to be provided by a team of technicians skilled in a broad range of technologies, including combustion, instrumentation, heat transfer, information processing, microprocessor controls, fluid systems and other elements of DG. If we are unable to recruit, train, motivate, sub-contract, and retain such personnel in each of the regional markets where our business operates we will be unable to grow our business in those markets. The company operates in highly competitive markets and may be unable to successfully compete against competitors having significantly greater resources and experience. Our business may be limited by competition from energy services companies arising from the breakup of conventional regulated electric utilities. Such competitors, both in the equipment and energy services sectors, are likely to have far greater financial and other resources than us, and could possess specialized market knowledge with existing channels of access to prospective customer locations. We may be unable to successfully compete against those competitors. 10 Future technology changes may render obsolete various elements of equipment comprising our On-Site Utility installations. We must select equipment for our DG projects so as to achieve attractive operating efficiencies, while avoiding excessive downtimes from the failure of unproven technologies. If we are unable to achieve a proper balance between the cost, efficiency and reliability of equipment selected for our projects, our growth and profitability will be adversely impacted. We have limited historical operating results upon which to base projections of future financial performance, making it difficult for prospective investors to assess the value of our stock. Our experience is primarily on-site energy services, and we have only a few years of actual operating experience. These limitations make developing financial projections more difficult. We will expand our business infrastructure based on these projections. If these projections prove to be inaccurate, we will sustain additional losses and will jeopardize the success of our business. We will need to raise additional capital for our business, which will dilute existing shareholders. Additional financings will be required to implement our overall business plan. We will need additional capital. Equity financings will dilute the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders. Our ability to raise an adequate amount of capital and the terms of any capital that we are able to raise will be dependent upon our progress in implementing demonstration projects and related marketing service development activities. If we do not make adequate progress, we may be unable to raise adequate funds, which will limit our ability to expand our business. If the terms of any equity financings are unfavorable, the dilutive impact on our shareholders might be severe. We may make acquisitions that could harm our financial performance. In order to expedite development of our corporate infrastructure, particularly with regard to equipment installation and service functions, we anticipate the future acquisition of complementary businesses. Risks associated with such acquisitions include the disruption of our existing operations, loss of key personnel in the acquired companies, dilution through the issuance of additional securities, assumptions of existing liabilities and commitment to further operating expenses. If any or all of these problems actually occur, acquisitions could negatively impact our financial performance and future stock value. We are controlled by a small group of majority shareholders, and our minority shareholders will be unable to effect changes in our governance structure or implement actions that require shareholder approval, such as a sale of the company. George Hatsopoulos and John Hatsopoulos, who are brothers, beneficially own a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock. These stockholders have the ability to control various corporate decisions, including our direction and policies, the election of directors, the content of our charter and bylaws and the outcome of any other matter requiring shareholder approval, including a merger, consolidation and sale of substantially all of our assets or other change of control transaction. The concurrence of our minority shareholders will not be required for any of these decisions. We may be exposed to substantial liability claims if we fail to fulfill our obligations to our customers. We enter into contracts with large commercial and not-for-profit customers under which we will assume responsibility for meeting a portion of the customers’ building energy demand and equipment installation. We may be exposed to substantial liability claims if we fail to fulfill our obligations to customers. There can be no assurance that we will not be vulnerable to claims by customers and by third parties that are beyond any contractual protections that we are able to negotiate. We may be unable to obtain liability and other insurance on terms and at prices that are commercially acceptable to us. As a result, liability claims could cause us significant financial harm. Investment in our common stock is subject to price fluctuations which have been significant for development stage companies like us. Historically, valuations of many companies in the development stage have been highly volatile. The securities of many of these companies have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations, unrelated to the operating performance or the prospects of such companies. If the conditions in the equity markets further deteriorate, we may be unable to finance our additional funding needs in the private or the public markets. There can be no assurance that any future offering will be consummated or, if consummated, will be at a share price equal or superior to the price paid by our investors even if we meet our technological and marketing goals. 11 Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders may cause our stock price to fall. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of shares of common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate and thus inhibit our ability to raise additional capital when it is needed. Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends, our stockholders will receive no current income from holding our stock. We have paid no cash dividends on our capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying these dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We currently expect to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business, and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Our ability to access capital for the repayment of debts and for future growth is limited as the financial markets are currently in a period of disruption and recession and the company does not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our ability to continue to access capital could be impacted by various factors including general market conditions and the continuing slowdown in the economy, interest rates, the perception of our potential future earnings and cash distributions, any unwillingness on the part of lenders to make loans to us and any deterioration in the financial position of lenders that might make them unable to meet their obligations to us. Our business is affected by general economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we operate. The current economic conditions could adversely impact our business in 2011 and beyond. The current economic conditions could adversely impact our business in 2011 and beyond, resulting in reduced demand for our products, increased rate of order cancellations or delays, increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories, increased pressure on the prices for our products and services; and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. Trading of our common stock is restricted by the Securities and Exchange Commission’s, or the SEC’s, “penny stock” regulations which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and other quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statement showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure and suitability requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our capital stock. Trading of our capital stock is restricted by the SEC’s “penny stock” regulations which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. 12 There has been a material weakness in our financial controls and procedures, which could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. As of the end of the period covered by this report, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have performed an evaluation of controls and procedures and concluded that our controls were not effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by our company in reports that we file under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported as when required. Management conducted an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and based on this evaluation, management concluded that the company’s internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of the end of the period covered by this report. The company currently does not have personnel with a sufficient level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the selection, application and implementation of generally acceptable accounting principles as it relates to complex transactions and financial reporting requirements. The company also has a small number of employees dealing with general controls over information technology security and user access. This constitutes a material weakness in financial reporting. Any failure to implement effective internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock, and may require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control system. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 