Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our equity securities may decline. Investors and prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks, the risks referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report and the information contained 21 Table of Contents under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks in our business Our operations have consistently produced losses. Since we began operations on January 31, 2007, our business has generally produced losses, with net income generated in only two quarters. Although some of our losses have resulted from management transition, reorganization and other costs which we do not expect to continue, we believe our losses are also the result of the general decline of the United States and world economies over which we have no control and we can not provide any assurance that we will be able to operate profitably. Our financial results are being affected by the current U.S. economic condition. The trucking industry is the primary customer for our goods and services. Freight and trucking demand in the U.S. generally reflect the amount of commercial activity in the U.S. economy. When the U.S. economy slows, demand for our products and services slows. For example, declines in housing construction have led to less lumber and construction materials being shipped, and these reduced shipments have resulted in fewer customers and lower sales volumes at our travel centers. Although recently the U.S. economy has shown recent signs of stabilizing and growing, it is unclear whether these trends will continue or be sustainable. If the U.S. economy continues to operate as it has over the past 12 to 18 months or if it worsens, our financial results may not improve and may decline, resulting in our experiencing increased losses from our operations. Reduced consumer spending has resulted in less imported consumer goods into the U.S. and less business at our travel centers; protectionist legislation could materially reduce imports and reduce our business. During the past 20 years, increasing world trade has resulted in large increases in the importing of consumer goods into the U.S., many of which are transported within the U.S. by truck. The recent recession and slow U.S. economy has lessened the demand for consumer goods imported into the U.S. and this decline is adversely affecting our business of supplying goods and services to truckers. Increases in U.S. exports have not offset this lost business, as many U.S. exports, for example commodities and heavy equipment, generally are not shipped via truck. If the volume of imported goods into the U.S. does not increase, our financial results may not improve and our losses may increase. Also, recent protectionist legislation such as was included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and various proposals for laws to encourage purchasing of domestically manufactured goods rather than imported products may reduce imports and adversely affect our business. Consolidation of our competitors may negatively affect our business. Based on fuel sales volumes, Pilot is the largest competitor in our industry, Flying J is the second largest and we are the third largest. In late 2008, Flying J filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. In 2009, Flying J announced a preliminary agreement to sell its interests in its travel centers to Pilot as part of its bankruptcy reorganization. If this transaction is completed, we may see increased competitive pressure that could negatively affect our sales volumes and profitability. We are unable to determine the extent of the effect a combined Pilot-Flying J may have on our financial position, results of operations, or competitive position, although we expect that such a combination would significantly alter the competitive landscape in the travel center industry. 22 Table of Contents Fuel price increases and fuel price volatility negatively affect our business. Fuel prices and price volatility were very high during 2008, and while fuel prices have abated somewhat from the historical high reached in July 2008, they remain at historically high levels, fuel price volatility has continued and fuel prices were higher at year end 2009 than they were at the end of 2008. These high prices and the inability to project future prices have had several adverse impacts upon our business. First, high fuel prices have resulted in higher truck shipping costs. This causes shippers to consider alternative means for transporting freight, which reduces trucking business and, in turn, reduces our business. Second, high fuel prices caused our trucking customers to seek cost savings throughout their businesses. This has resulted in some customers instituting fuel conservation measures, such as lower maximum driving speeds and reduced truck engine idling reducing total fuel consumption; also some of our customers and potential customers appear to be concentrating their fuel business with some of our competitors who may offer lower prices than we offer. Third, higher fuel prices may result in less disposable income for our customers to purchase our nonfuel goods and services. Fourth, higher and more volatile fuel prices increase the working capital needed to maintain our fuel inventories and receivables, and this increases our costs of doing business. If fuel prices or fuel price volatility increase, our financial results may not improve and our losses may increase. Our labor costs are difficult to control. During 2008 and 2009 we implemented labor cost savings initiatives in our salaried and hourly workforce in an effort to match the declines in our business volumes. However, to maintain and manage our operations requires certain minimum staffing levels to operate our travel centers 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. We believe it will be increasingly difficult for us to make additional staff reductions without adversely affecting our business prospects. Also, certain opportunities for sales may be lost when labor is reduced. For these reasons, our labor costs are difficult to control and we may suffer losses. Our properties require regular and expensive maintenance and capital investments. Our travel centers are open for business 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. Also, many of our locations were originally constructed more than 25 years ago. Because of the age of many of our properties, especially some of our TA sites, and because of the nature and intensity of our uses of these properties, our properties require regular and expensive maintenance and capital investments to remain functional and attractive to customers. When we commenced business we determined that some of our TA sites required significant capital investments and we obtained a commitment from HPT to invest $125 million in our leased TA sites as part of the HPT Transaction. After the HPT Transaction was completed, we determined to accelerate this investment and we raised additional capital, in part, to do so. In 2008 and 2009, because of the recessionary U.S. economy we determined to defer some of these capital expenditures. If our financial results do not improve or if we can not access capital necessary to maintain our properties, our business may decline and our losses may increase. Also, deferring certain capital expenditures in the near term may require us to make larger amounts of capital expenditures in the future. Our operating margins are narrow. Our total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, were $4.7 billion; while the sum of our cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation) and site level operating expenses for the same period totaled $4.4 billion. Fuel sales in particular generate low gross margins. Our fuel sales for the year ended December 31, 2009, were $3.6 billion and our gross margin on fuel sales was $230 million, or approximately 6%. A small percentage decline in our future revenues or increase in our future expenses, especially revenues and expenses related to fuel, may cause us to continue to experience losses or our losses to increase. 23 Table of Contents An interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. To mitigate the risks arising from fuel price volatility, we generally maintain limited fuel inventories. Accordingly, an interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. Interruptions in fuel supplies may be caused by local conditions, such as a malfunction in a particular pipeline or terminal, by weather related events, such as hurricanes in the areas where petroleum is extracted or refined, or by national or international conditions, such as government rationing, acts of terrorism, war and the like. Any limitation in available fuel supplies which causes a decline in truck freight shipments or which caused a limit on the fuel we can offer for sale may cause us to experience losses or our losses to increase. We are involved in litigation which is expensive and may have adverse impacts upon our business. We are currently involved in litigation which is expensive and which may have adverse consequences to us. If these litigation matters or new litigation matters continue for extended periods or if they result in judgments adverse to us, we may continue to experience losses or our losses may increase. In addition, in our experience, the risk of litigation is greater in certain jurisdictions, such as the State of California. We have significant operations in the State of California and have in the past been, and may in the future be, party to employee and other litigation in that state or elsewhere. Although to date our litigation matters in the State of California have not resulted in settlements or judgments against us which have had, or which we expect would reasonably be likely to have, a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance that they will not have such an effect or that litigation elsewhere would not have such an effect on us. See below Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." We rely upon trade creditors for a significant amount of our working capital and the availability of alternative sources of financing may be limited. Our fuel purchases are our largest operating cost. In 2009 we purchased $3.4 billion of fuel. Historically, we have paid for our fuel purchases after delivery. In the past, as our fuel costs increased with the increase in commodity market prices, some of our fuel suppliers have been unwilling to adjust the amounts of our available trade credit to accommodate the increased costs of the fuel volumes which we purchase; for example, a $10 million amount of trade credit will allow us to purchase 5 million gallons of fuel at $2.00 per gallon, but only 3.33 million gallons at $3.00 per gallon. Also, our financial results and business conditions in the U.S. financial markets generally have caused some fuel suppliers to request letters of credit or other forms of security for our purchases. While fuel prices generally declined toward the end of 2008, fuel prices increased steadily throughout most of 2009. We cannot predict how high or low fuel prices may be in the future, and fuel price volatility significantly impacts our working capital requirements. Further, in light of the difficult conditions in the global credit markets, credit has become more expensive and difficult to obtain, which may limit the availability to us of alternative sources of financing. Although we maintain a credit facility permitting borrowings for up to $100 million, we typically utilize a large portion of that facility for issuances of letters of credit to our fuel suppliers to fund our fuel purchases and to taxing authorities (or bonding companies) for fuel taxes. Our credit facility expires in 2012. Our inability to obtain any additional or replacement financing we may need on reasonable terms would adversely affect our ability to fund our business operations and may result in increased investment in our working capital. Any increased investment in working capital decreases our financial flexibility to use our capital for other business purposes or to fund our operations and may cause us to suffer losses. Our customers may become unable to pay us when we extend credit. We sell some of our products on credit. Customers purchasing fuel or other goods on credit from us may default on their obligations to pay, or they may extend the payment period, for products sold to them on credit. In light of the difficult economic conditions that have existed in the United States 24 Table of Contents generally and the trucking industry specifically, the risk that some of our customers may not pay us is greater at present than it has been historically. Also, to the extent that we are unable to collect receivables owed to us in a timely fashion, we may be required to increase amounts invested in our working capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our storage and dispensing of petroleum products create the potential for environmental damages, and compliance with environmental laws is often expensive. Our business is subject to laws relating to the protection of the environment. The travel centers we operate include fueling areas, truck repair and maintenance facilities and tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous substances, all of which create the potential for environmental damage. As a result, we regularly incur environmental clean up costs. Our balance sheet as of December 31, 2009, included an accrued liability of $9.5 million for environmental remediation and related costs. Because of the uncertainties associated with environmental expenditures, it is possible that future expenditures could be substantially higher than this amount. Environmental laws expose us to the possibility that we may become liable to reimburse the government or others for damages and costs they incur in connection with environmental hazards. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations may be enacted or how existing laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our products or activities in the future; more stringent laws, more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws in the future could cause us to expend significant amounts or experience losses. Legislation and regulation regarding climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions, and other environmental matters may be adopted or administered and enforced differently in the future, which could require us to expend significant amounts. For instance, federal and state governmental requirements addressing emissions from trucks and other motor vehicles, such as the United States Environmental Protection Agency's gasoline and diesel sulfur control requirements that limit the concentration of sulfur in motor gasoline and diesel fuel, could negatively impact our business. In addition, in our experience, the risk of being subject to regulatory review and proceedings for environmental related matters is greater in certain jurisdictions, such as the State of California. We have significant operations in the State of California and have in the past been subject to regulatory review and proceedings for environmental related matters and may in the future be subject to similar reviews and proceedings in that state or elsewhere. Although to date our environmental regulatory matters in the State of California have not resulted in settlements or judgments against us, or otherwise resulted in our paying or agreeing to pay amounts, which have had, or which we expect would reasonably be likely to have, a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance that they will not have such an effect or that environmental regulatory reviews or proceedings elsewhere would not have such an effect on us. See the disclosure under Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." To the extent we incur material amounts for environmental matters for which we do not receive insurance or other third party reimbursement or for which we have not set aside a reserve in prior years, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. In addition, to the extent we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, or we become subject to costs and requirements not similarly experienced by our competitors, our competitive position may be harmed. Under the leases between us and HPT, we have agreed to indemnify HPT from environmental liabilities it may incur arising at any of our leased travel centers. Although we maintain insurance policies which cover our environmental liabilities, that coverage may not adequately cover liabilities we may incur. To the extent we incur liabilities in excess of our policy coverage, or our insurance carriers fail to fund our claims, we will be obligated to fund such liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. 25 Table of Contents Our franchisees may become unable to pay our rents and royalties and we have limited control of our franchisees. Ten travel centers which we lease from HPT are subleased to franchisees. As of December 31, 2009, an additional 35 travel centers not owned by us or HPT are operated by franchisees. Because we have historically experienced losses, the rent and royalties we receive from these franchisees may be significant to us. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the rent and royalty revenue generated from these franchisee relationships was $13.9 million. We believe the deteriorating business conditions which have recently affected the locations which we operate, including the effects of current U.S. economic conditions and high and volatile fuel prices, are also adversely affecting our franchisees and may make it difficult for our franchisees to pay the rent and royalties due to us. In addition, our franchise agreements are subject to periodic renewal by us or the franchisee. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, the franchise agreements covering four Petro branded locations operated by one franchisee terminated. Also, various laws and our existing franchise contracts limit the control we may exercise over our franchisees' business activities. A failure by our franchisees to pay rents and royalties to us, or the termination or non-renewal of a significant number of our franchise agreements, may cause us to continue to experience losses or cause our losses to increase. Difficult U.S. economic conditions may adversely affect suppliers and subtenants. Some of the products and services provided at our travel centers are obtained by us by way of a lease, license or supply agreement with third parties. Continued economic pressures may cause financial stress, performance issues and/or outright failure by one or more of these third parties and we may incur substantial costs or loss of business as a result. For example: one subtenant who operates a casino has been unable to pay rent of about $0.3 million monthly and we have entered a work out arrangement with that subtenant; and a lessee that provided electronic heating and cooling services to trucks parked in our lots and has historically paid us about $0.3 million monthly recently ceased operations, and in addition to the loss of lease income, we may experience costs to remove its equipment and repair our parking lots We may not realize financial benefits by participating in Affiliates Insurance. We may not realize our expectation that we will benefit financially by participating in the insurance company in which we have invested along with RMR and companies to which RMR provides management services. Participation in an insurance business involves potential financial risks and rewards typical of any start up business venture as well as other financial risks and rewards specific to insurance companies. Among the risks that are specific to insurance companies is the risk that the insurance company may not be able to adequately fund claims which could leave us underinsured and increase our funding exposure for claims that might otherwise have been funded if insurance was procured with other better capitalized insurers. Accordingly, our expected financial benefits from our investment in an insurance company may be delayed or may not occur and the insurance company may require more funds than we expect. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology systems throughout our operations, including for management of our supply chain, point of sale processing at our sites, and various other processes and transactions. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and personal credit information. In addition, the systems currently used for certain transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, may put certain 26 Table of Contents payment card data at risk; and these systems are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, and not by us. Any compromise or breach of our information and payment technology systems could cause interruptions in our operations, damage our reputation and reduce our customers' willingness to visit our sites and conduct business with us. Further, the failure of these systems to operate effectively, or problems we may experience with maintaining our current system or transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, could significantly harm our business and operations and cause us to incur significant costs to remediate such problems and to pay related fines. Privatization of toll roads may negatively affect our business. Some states have privatized their toll roads which are part of the interstate highway system. We believe it is likely that tolls will increase on privatized highways. In addition, some states may increase tolls for their own account. If tolls are introduced or increased on highways in the proximity of our locations, our business at those locations may decline because truckers may seek alternative routes. We may have to expend significant amounts to comply with climate change and other environmental legislation and regulation and the market reaction to such legislation and regulation and climate change concerns generally may require us to make significant capital or other expenditures and may adversely affect our business. Future climate change legislation and regulation, including those addressing greenhouse gas emissions, may require us to expend significant amounts. In addition, the market reaction to any such legislation or regulation or to climate change concerns generally may cause us to incur increased costs and capital expenditures. Increased costs incurred by our suppliers as a result of climate change or other environmental legislation or regulation may be passed on to us in the prices we pay for our fuel supplies. We may not be able to pass on those increased costs to our customers. Increased fuel costs resulting for these reasons would likely have similar effects on our business, operations and liquidity as discussed elsewhere regarding high fuel costs, including decreased demand for our fuel at our travel centers, increased working capital needs and decreased fuel gross margins. Further, legislation and regulations that limit carbon emissions may cause our energy costs at our travel centers to increase. Moreover, technological changes developed or changes in customer transportation or fueling preferences as a result of or in response to any such legislation, regulation or market reaction may require us to make significant capital or other expenditures to adopt those technologies or to address those changed preferences or may decrease the demand for our fuel at our travel centers. We may be unable to utilize our net operating loss carry forwards. As a result of the large volume of public trading in our shares during 2007, we experienced a change in ownership, as defined by section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, or the Code. Consequently, we are unable to use our net operating loss generated in 2007. If we experience additional changes in ownership, as defined in the Code, our net operating losses generated after 2007 could also be subject to limitations on usage. Risks arising from our formation and certain relationships We are obligated to pay material amounts of rent to HPT. The terms of our leases with HPT require us to pay all of our operating costs and generally fixed amounts of rent. During periods of industry decline, like the one we have been experiencing since the second half of 2007, our revenues and gross margins may decrease but our rents due to HPT do not decline. A decline in our revenues or an increase in our expenses may make it difficult or impossible for us to meet all of our obligations and, if we default under our HPT leases, we may be unable to continue our business. Further, pursuant to our rent deferral agreement, we have deferred to date $95 million of rent. All deferred rent (and interest thereon) not previously paid is payable by us on July 1, 2011. There can be no assurance that we will have the necessary funding to repay by July 1, 2011, all amounts which we may then owe pursuant to the rent deferral agreement. 27 Table of Contents Our business is subject to possible conflicts of interest with HPT and RMR. Our creation was, and our continuing business is, subject to possible conflicts of interest, as follows: •Two of our directors were trustees of HPT at the time we were created. •We have five directors, one of whom, Barry M. Portnoy, also is a trustee of HPT and the majority owner of RMR, one of whom, Arthur G. Koumantzelis, is a former trustee of HPT, and one of whom, Thomas M. O'Brien, is a former executive officer of HPT. Further, Mr. Portnoy and all of our Independent Directors are members of the boards of trustees or boards of directors of various companies to which RMR provides management services. •Mr. O'Brien, who serves as our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Andrew J. Rebholz, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer are also employees of RMR. We lease a large majority of our locations from HPT. RMR is the manager for HPT and we purchase services from RMR pursuant to our business management and shared services agreement. In connection with the transaction agreement we entered as part of the HPT Transaction, we provided HPT a right of first refusal to purchase, lease, mortgage or otherwise finance any interest we own in a travel center before we sell, lease, mortgage or otherwise finance that travel center with another party, and we granted HPT and other entities to which RMR provides management services a right of first refusal to acquire or finance any real estate of the types in which they invest before we do, which could limit our ability to purchase or finance our properties or properties we may wish to invest in or acquire in the future. We believe that our historical and ongoing business dealings with HPT and RMR have benefited us and that, despite the foregoing possible conflicts of interest, the transactions we have entered with HPT and RMR since the HPT Transaction have been commercially reasonable and not less favorable than otherwise available to us. Nonetheless, some persons may allege that these conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest may create a basis on which litigation is brought against us; and defending such litigation may be expensive, time consuming and a distraction to our management. In fact, such litigation is currently pending; see "Legal Proceedings". We have significant commercial arrangements with RMR and HPT and we are dependent on those arrangements in operating our business. We are party to a business management and shared services agreement with RMR, whereby RMR assists us with various aspects of our business. One of our directors is the majority owner and a director of RMR. One of our other directors, President and Chief Executive Officer and our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer are also officers of RMR. Most of the travel centers that we operate are leased by us, principally from HPT. As a result of these factors, we are dependent on our arrangements with RMR and HPT in operating our business and any adverse developments in those arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to conduct our operations. Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions may prevent us from experiencing a change of control and our shareholders from receiving a takeover premium. Our limited liability company agreement, or our LLC agreement, and bylaws include various provisions which may make it difficult for anyone to cause a change of control of us by means of a 28 Table of Contents tender offer, open market share purchases, a proxy contest or otherwise, without the approval of our board of directors. Among others, these provisions include the following: •separate prohibitions on the ownership of 5% or more of our shares or in excess of 9.8% of any class or type of our equity securities by any person or group; •regulatory compliance matters, including Louisiana gaming and Indiana insurance regulatory matters, which we and our shareholders may be subject to and which may effectively restrict a shareholder's ownership in us, including in some cases, to 5% of our outstanding shares; •staggered terms for members of our board of directors; •qualifications to serve on our board of directors as Managing Directors and Independent Directors; •the power of our board of directors, without shareholders' approval, to authorize and issue additional shares of any class or type on terms that it determines; •advance notice procedures for shareholder nominations and other proposals; •a requirement that an individual director may only be removed for cause and then only by unanimous vote of the other directors; and a 75% shareholders' vote and cause requirements for removal of our entire board of directors; •a 75% shareholders' vote requirement for shareholder nominations and other proposals which are not approved by our board of directors; •the authority of our board of directors, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws; and •requirements that shareholders and director nominees comply with regulatory requirements (including gambling and insurance licensing requirements) or contractual obligations affecting us which could effectively limit share ownership and the ability of persons to solicit or vote proxies for our shares. In addition, our leases with HPT, our business management and shared services agreement with RMR and our credit facility each provide that our rights and benefits under those agreements may be terminated in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience a change in control, as defined in those agreements, without the consent of HPT, RMR or the lenders under the credit facility, respectively. For these reasons, among others, shareholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for their shares. Disputes with HPT and RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our directors and officers may be referred to arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with HPT and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our LLC agreement and bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our directors and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against HPT, RMR or our directors and officers if the disputes were referred to arbitration. In addition, the ability to collect attorney's fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 29 Table of Contents 