Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below or referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also adversely impact our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our equity securities may decline. Investors and prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks, the risks referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report and the information contained under the 21 Table of Contents heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks in our business Our operations have consistently produced losses. Since we began operations on January 31, 2007, our business has generally produced losses with net income generated in only two quarters. Although some of our losses have resulted from management transition, reorganization and other costs which we do not expect to continue, we believe our losses are also the result of the general decline of the United States and world economies over which we have no control and we can not provide any assurance that we will be able to operate profitably. Our financial results are being affected by the current recession in the U.S. economy and the state of the credit market. The trucking industry is the primary customer for our goods and services. Freight and trucking demand in the U.S. generally reflect the amount of commercial activity in the U.S. economy. Because the U.S. economy is slowing and is in recession, demand for our products and services are slowing. For example, the recent decline in housing construction has led to less lumber and construction materials being shipped, and these reduced shipments have resulted in fewer customers and lower sales volumes at our travel centers. If the U.S. economy continues to operate at the present rates or if it declines further, our financial results may not improve or our losses may increase. Reduced consumer spending has resulted in less imported consumer goods into the U.S. and less business at our travel centers; protectionist legislation could materially reduce imports and reduce our business. During the past 20 years, increasing world trade has resulted in large increases in the importation of consumer goods into the U.S., many of which are transported within the U.S. by truck. The current recession has lessened the demand for consumer goods imported into the U.S. and this decline is adversely affecting our business of supplying goods and services to truckers. Increases in U.S. exports have not offset this lost business, as many U.S. exports, for example commodities and heavy equipment, generally are not shipped via truck. If the current recession continues or worsens, our financial results may not improve or our losses may increase. Also, recent protectionist legislation such as was included in the recent stimulus law and various proposals for laws to encourage purchasing of domestically manufactured goods rather than imported products may reduce imports and adversely affect our business. Fuel price increases and fuel price volatility negatively affect our business. Fuel prices and price volatility were very high during 2008. These high prices and the inability to project future prices have had several adverse impacts upon our business. First, high fuel prices have resulted in higher truck shipping costs. This causes shippers to consider alternative means for transporting freight, which reduces trucking business and, in turn, reduces our business. Second, high fuel prices caused our trucking customers to seek cost savings throughout their businesses. This has resulted in some customers instituting fuel conservation measures such as lower maximum driving speeds and reduced truck engine idling reducing total fuel consumption, and some customers concentrating their fuel business with some of our competitors who are vertically integrated fuel refiners and retailers who may offer lower prices than we offer. Third, higher fuel prices may result in less disposable income for our customers to purchase our nonfuel goods and services. Fourth, higher and more volatile fuel prices have increased the working capital needed to maintain our fuel 22 Table of Contents inventories, and this increases our costs of doing business. If fuel prices or fuel price volatility increase, our financial results may not improve and our losses may increase. Our labor costs are difficult to control. During 2008 we reduced our salaried workforce and implemented additional labor costs savings in our hourly workforce in an effort to match the declines in our business volumes. However, our travel centers operate 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. To maintain and manage our operations requires certain minimum staffing levels. We believe it will be increasingly difficult for us to make additional staff reductions without adversely affecting our business prospects. Also, certain opportunities for sales may be lost when labor is reduced. For these reasons, our labor costs are difficult to control and we may suffer losses. Our properties require regular and expensive maintenance and capital investments. As noted above, our travel centers are open for business 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. Also, many of our locations were originally constructed more than 25 years ago. Because of the age of many of our properties, especially some of our TA sites, and because of the nature and intensity of our uses of these properties, our properties require regular and expensive maintenance and capital investments to remain functional and attractive to customers. When we commenced business we determined that some of our TA sites required significant capital investments and we obtained a commitment from Hospitality Trust to invest $125 million in our leased TA sites as part of the HPT Transaction. After the HPT Transaction was completed, we determined to accelerate this investment and we raised additional capital, in part, to do so. Recently, because of the slowing U.S. economy we determined to defer some of these capital expenditures. If our financial results do not improve or if we can not access capital necessary to maintain our properties, our business may decline and our losses may increase. Also, deferring certain capital expenditures in the near term may require us to make larger amounts of capital expenditures in the future. Our operating margins are narrow. Our total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, were $7.7 billion; while the sum of our cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation) and site level operating expenses for the same period totaled $7.3 billion. Fuel sales in particular generate low gross margins. Our fuel sales for the year ended December 31, 2008, were $6.5 billion and our gross profit on fuel sales was $275 million, or approximately 4%. A small percentage decline in our future revenues or increase in our future expenses, especially revenues and expenses related to fuel, may cause us to continue to experience losses or our losses to increase. An interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. To mitigate the risks arising from fuel price volatility, we generally maintain limited fuel inventories. Accordingly, an interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. Interruptions in fuel supplies may be caused by local conditions, such as a malfunction in a particular pipeline or terminal, by weather related events, such as hurricanes in the areas where petroleum is mined or refined, or by national or international conditions, such as government rationing, acts of terrorism, war and the like. Any limitation in available fuel supplies which causes a decline in truck freight shipments or which caused a limit on the fuel we can offer for sale may cause us to experience losses or our losses to increase. 23 Table of Contents We are involved in litigation which is expensive and may have adverse impacts upon our business. We are currently involved in litigation which is expensive and which may have adverse consequences to us. If these litigation matters and or new litigation matters continue for extended periods or if they result in judgments adverse to us, we may continue to experience losses or our losses may increase. See below Item 3—Legal Proceedings. We rely upon trade creditors for a significant amount of our working capital and the availability of alternative sources of financing may be limited in light of the current turmoil in the global credit markets. Our fuel purchases are our largest operating cost. In 2008 we purchased $6.2 billion of fuel. Historically, we have paid for our fuel purchases after delivery. During the past year as our fuel costs increased some of our fuel suppliers have been unwilling to adjust the amounts of our available trade credit to accommodate the increased costs of the fuel volumes which we purchase; for example, a $10 million amount of trade credit will allow us to purchase 5 million gallons of fuel at $2.00 per gallon, but only 3.33 million gallons at $3.00 per gallon. Also, our financial results and business conditions in the U.S. financial markets generally have caused some fuel suppliers to request letters of credit or other forms of security for our purchases. As a result, our investment in our working capital increased during 2008 when fuel prices were higher. While fuel prices generally declined towards the end of 2008, we cannot predict how high or low they may go in the future, which could significantly impact our working capital requirements. Further, the global credit markets have been experiencing substantial disruption and, as a result, credit has become more expensive and difficult to obtain, which may limit the availability to us of alternative sources of financing. Although we maintain a credit facility permitting borrowings for up to $100 million, we typically utilize a large portion of that facility for issuances of letters of credit to our fuel suppliers to fund our fuel purchases. Failure to obtain any additional financing we may need on reasonable terms would adversely affect our ability to fund our business operations and may result in increased investment in our working capital. Any increased investment in working capital decreases our financial flexibility to use our capital for other business purposes or to fund our operations and may cause us to suffer losses. Our customers may become unable to pay us when we extend credit. We sell some of our products on credit. Customers purchasing fuel or other goods on credit from us may default on their obligations to pay, or they may extend the payment period, for products sold to them on credit, which may result in an increased investment by us in our accounts receivable. In light of the current economic slowdown or recession in the United States, the risk that some of our customers do not pay us may be greater than our historical experience. Also, to the extent that we are unable to collect receivables owed to us in a timely fashion, we may be required to increase amounts invested in our working capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our storage and dispensing of petroleum products create the potential for environmental damages, and compliance with environmental laws is often expensive. Our business is subject to laws relating to the protection of the environment. The travel centers we operate include fueling areas, truck repair and maintenance facilities and tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous substances, all of which create the potential for environmental damage. As a result, we regularly incur environmental clean up costs. Our balance sheet as of December 31, 2008, included an accrued liability of $10.1 million for environmental remediation and related costs. Because of the uncertainties associated with environmental expenditures, it is possible that future expenditures could be substantially higher than this amount. Environmental laws expose us to the possibility that we may become liable to reimburse the government or others for damages and costs they incur in connection with environmental hazards. We cannot predict what environmental 24 Table of Contents legislation or regulations may be enacted or how existing laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our products or activities in the future; more stringent laws, more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws in the future could cause us to experience losses. In addition, under the leases between us and Hospitality Trust, we have agreed to indemnify Hospitality Trust from environmental liabilities it may incur arising at any of our leased travel centers. Although we maintain insurance policies which cover our environmental liabilities, that coverage may not adequately cover liabilities we may incur. To the extent we incur liabilities in excess of our policy coverage, or our insurance carriers fail to fund our claims, we will be obligated to fund such liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. Our franchisees may become unable to pay our rents and royalties and we have limited control of our franchisees. Ten travel centers which we lease from Hospitality Trust are subleased to franchisees. An additional 35 travel centers not owned by us or Hospitality Trust are operated by franchisees. Because we have historically experienced losses, the rent and royalties we receive from these franchisees may be significant to us. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the rent and royalty revenue generated from these franchisee relationships was $14.4 million. We believe the deteriorating business conditions which have recently affected the locations which we operate, including the impact of the current recession in the U.S. economy and high and volatile fuel prices, are also adversely affecting our franchisees and may make it difficult for our franchisees to pay the rent and royalties due to us. During 2008 we terminated two franchise agreements due to the failure of the franchisees to pay amounts due under the agreements. In addition, our franchise agreements are subject to periodic rights to not renew exercisable by us or the franchisee. One franchisee that operates four locations has notified us that it may not extend its franchise agreements with us when they expire at year end 2009. Also, various laws and our existing franchise contracts limit the control we may exercise over our franchisees' business activities. A failure by our franchisees to pay rents and royalties to us, or the termination or non-renewal of a significant number of our franchise agreements, may cause us to continue to experience losses or cause our losses to increase. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business We rely on information technology systems across our operations, including for management of our supply chain, point of sale processing at our sites, and various other processes and transactions. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and personal credit information. In addition, the systems currently used for certain transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, may put certain payment card data at risk, and these systems are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, and not by us. Any compromise or breach of our information and payment technology systems could cause interruptions in our operations, damage our reputation and reduce our customers' willingness to visit our sites and conduct business with us. Further, the failure of these systems to operate effectively, or problems we may experience with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, could significantly harm our business and operations and cause us to incur significant costs to remediate such problems. 25 Table of Contents Risks arising from our formation and certain relationships We have been recently reorganized. We are a recently reorganized business. Our board and senior management include persons associated with Hospitality Trust and its affiliates and with Reit Management as well as some former executives of our predecessor. This management team does not have a significant amount of experience working together and they may not be able to do so successfully. We are obligated to pay material amounts of rent to Hospitality Trust. The terms of our leases with Hospitality Trust require us to pay all of our operating costs and generally fixed amounts of rent. During periods of industry decline, like the one we are currently experiencing, our revenues may decrease but our rents due Hospitality Trust do not decline. A decline in our revenues or an increase in our expenses may make it difficult or impossible for us to meet all of our obligations and, if we default our Hospitality Trust leases, we may be unable to continue our business. Our business is subject to possible conflicts of interest with Hospitality Trust and Reit Management. Our creation was, and our continuing business is, subject to possible conflicts of interest, as follows: •Two of our directors were trustees of Hospitality Trust at the time we were created. •We have five directors, one of whom, Barry M. Portnoy, also is a trustee of Hospitality Trust and the majority owner of Reit Management, one of whom, Arthur G. Koumantzelis, is a former trustee of Hospitality Trust, and one of whom, Thomas M. O'Brien, is a former executive officer of Hospitality Trust and an employee of Reit Management. Further, Mr. Portnoy and all of our Independent Directors are members of the boards of trustees or boards of directors of various companies to which Reit Management provides management services. •Mr. O'Brien, who serves as our President and Chief Executive Officer, is also an employee of Reit Management. Andrew J. Rebholz, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer is also an employee of Reit Management. We lease a large majority of our locations from Hospitality Trust. Reit Management is the manager for Hospitality Trust and we purchase services from Reit Management pursuant to our management and shared services agreement. In connection with the transaction agreement we entered as part of the HPT Transaction, we provided Hospitality Trust a right of first refusal to purchase, lease, mortgage or otherwise finance any interest we own in a travel center before we sell, lease, mortgage or otherwise finance that travel center with another party, and we granted Hospitality Trust and other entities to which Reit Management provides management services a right of first refusal to acquire or finance any real estate of the types in which they invest before we do, which could limit our ability to purchase or finance our properties or properties we may wish to invest in or acquire in the future. We believe that our historical and ongoing business dealings with Hospitality Trust and Reit Management have benefited us and that, despite the foregoing possible conflicts of interest, the transactions we have entered with Hospitality Trust and Reit Management since the HPT Transaction have been commercially reasonable and not less favorable than otherwise available to us. Nonetheless, some persons may allege that these conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest may create a basis on which litigation is brought against us; and defending such litigation may be expensive, time consuming and a distraction to our management. 26 Table of Contents We are dependent upon Reit Management and the management services it provides us. We are party to a management and shared services agreement with Reit Management, whereby Reit Management oversees and assists us with various aspects of our business. Our President and Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer are also officers of Reit Management. We are dependent on the services provided to us by Reit Management. If Reit Management were to fail to provide us with these services, our business could be materially adversely affected. Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions may prevent you from receiving a takeover premium. Our limited liability company agreement, or our LLC agreement, and bylaws include various provisions which may make it difficult for anyone to cause a change of control of us by means of a tender offer, open market share purchases, a proxy contest or otherwise, without the approval of our board of directors. Among others, these provisions include the following: •a prohibition on the ownership of more than 9.8% of any class or type of our equity securities by any person or group; •staggered terms for members of our board of directors; •the power of our board of directors, without shareholders' approval, to authorize and issue additional shares of any class or type on terms that it determines; •advance notice procedures for shareholder nominations and other proposals; •a 75% shareholders' vote and cause requirements for removal of the entire board of directors; •a 75% shareholders' vote requirement for shareholder nominations and other proposals which are not approved by our board of directors; •the authority of our board of directors, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws; and •requirements that shareholders comply with regulatory requirements or contractual obligations affecting us which could effectively limit share ownership and the ability of persons to solicit or vote proxies for our shares. In addition, our leases with Hospitality Trust and our management and shared services agreement with Reit Management each provide that our rights and benefits under those agreements may be terminated in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience a change in control, as defined, without the consent of Hospitality Trust or Reit Management, respectively. For these reasons, among others, shareholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for their common shares. We may be unable to meet financial reporting and internal control standards for a publicly owned company. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is the process designed by, or under the supervision of, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and implemented by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and dispositions of assets; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with the authorization of our 27 Table of Contents management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. We may identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, our management was required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and, under current SEC rules, beginning for the year ending December 31, 2009, we will be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to either identify any material weakness or otherwise conclude that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the price of our traded securities may decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 