Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our substantial indebtedness could affect our ability to meet our obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of the end of fiscal 2014, we had total indebtedness (including current portion) of $3,918 million with cash and cash equivalents totaling $129 million. We would have been able to borrow a further $570 million under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facilities, subject to the solvency of our lenders to fund their obligations and our borrowing base calculations. We are permitted by the terms of our debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit our ability to respond to business opportunities, including growing our business through acquisitions. 8 In addition, the credit agreements and indentures governing our current indebtedness contain, and any future debt instruments would likely contain, financial and other restrictive covenants, which will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt; pay dividends and make other restricted payments; create or incur certain liens; make certain investments; engage in sales of assets and subsidiary stock; enter into transactions with affiliates; transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions; and make capital expenditures. As a result of these covenants, we will be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Increases in resin prices or a shortage of available resin could harm our financial condition and results of operations. To produce our products, we use large quantities of plastic resins. Plastic resins are subject to price fluctuations, including those arising from supply shortages and changes in the prices of natural gas, crude oil and other petrochemical intermediates from which resins are produced. Over the past several years, we have at times experienced rapidly increasing resin prices. If rapid increases in resin prices continue, our revenue and profitability may be materially and adversely affected, both in the short term as we attempt to pass through changes in the price of resin to customers under current agreements and in the long term as we negotiate new agreements or if our customers seek product substitution. We source plastic resin primarily from major industry suppliers and we have long-standing relationships with certain of these suppliers. We may not be able to arrange for other sources of resin in the event of an industry-wide general shortage of resins used by us, or a shortage or discontinuation of certain types of grades of resin purchased from one or more of our suppliers. In addition, the largest supplier of the Company’s total resin material requirements represented approximately 22% of purchases during fiscal 2014. Any such shortage may materially negatively impact our competitive position versus companies that are able to better or more cheaply source resin. We may not be able to compete successfully and our customers may not continue to purchase our products. We face intense competition in the sale of our products and compete with multiple companies in each of our product lines. We compete on the basis of a number of considerations, including price, service, quality, product characteristics and the ability to supply products to customers in a timely manner. Our products also compete with metal, glass, paper and other packaging materials as well as plastic packaging materials made through different manufacturing processes. Some of these competitive products are not subject to the impact of changes in resin prices which may have a significant and negative impact on our competitive position versus substitute products. Our competitors may have financial and other resources that are substantially greater than ours and may be better able than us to withstand higher costs. In addition, our success may depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes, and if we fail to enhance existing products and develop and introduce new products and new production technologies in a timely fashion in response to changing market conditions and customer demands, our competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, some of our customers do and could in the future choose to manufacture the products they require for themselves. Each of our product lines faces a different competitive landscape. Competition could result in our products losing market share or our having to reduce our prices, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and financial condition. In addition, since we do not have long-term arrangements with many of our customers, these competitive factors could cause our customers to shift suppliers and/or packaging material quickly. We may pursue and execute acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to consider the acquisition of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business and create economic value. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any such transactions or that any future acquisitions will be consummated at acceptable prices and terms. We continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of business, including those that could be material in size and scope. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: 9 the diversion of management’s attention and resources to the assimilation of the acquired companies and their employees and to the management of expanding operations; the incorporation of acquired products into our product line; problems associated with maintaining relationships with employees and customers of acquired businesses; the increasing demands on our operational systems; ability to integrate and implement effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting within the allowable time frame as permitted by Sarbanes-Oxley Act; possible adverse effects on our reported operating results, particularly during the first several reporting periods after such acquisitions are completed; and the loss of key employees and the difficulty of presenting a unified corporate image. We may become responsible for unexpected liabilities that we failed or were unable to discover in the course of performing due diligence in connection with historical acquisitions and any future acquisitions. We have typically required selling stockholders to indemnify us against certain undisclosed liabilities. However, we cannot assure you that indemnification rights we have obtained, or will in the future obtain, will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or property acquired. Any of these liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions without substantial costs, delays or other problems. The costs of such integration could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the businesses we purchase, in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual condition of these businesses. Until we actually assume operating control of such businesses and their assets and operations, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired entities and their operations. Furthermore, we may not realize all of the cost savings and synergies we expect to achieve from our current strategic initiatives due to a variety of risks, including, but not limited to, difficulties in integrating shared services with our business, higher than expected employee severance or retention costs, higher than expected overhead expenses, delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost-saving plans and other unexpected costs associated with operating our business. If we are unable to achieve the cost savings or synergies that we expect to achieve from our strategic initiatives, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, including our unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets, or in avoiding claims that we infringed on the intellectual property rights of others. In addition to relying on patent and trademark rights, we rely on unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets, and employ various methods, including confidentiality agreements with employees and consultants, customers and suppliers to protect our know-how and trade secrets. However, these methods and our patents and trademarks may not afford complete protection and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better production methods than us. Further, we may not be able to deter current and former employees, contractors and other parties from breaching confidentiality agreements and misappropriating proprietary information and it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. Additionally, we have licensed, and may license in the future, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and similar proprietary rights to third parties. While we attempt to ensure that our intellectual property and similar proprietary rights are protected when entering into business relationships, third parties may take actions that could materially and adversely affect our rights or the value of our intellectual property, similar proprietary rights or reputation. In the future, we may also rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights, and, if not successful, we may not be able to protect the value of our intellectual property. Any litigation could be protracted and costly and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations regardless of its outcome. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain, or license from third parties, patents, trademarks, trade secrets and similar proprietary rights without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. Although we believe our intellectual property rights are sufficient to allow us to conduct our business without incurring liability to third parties, our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of such persons. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that we will not be subject to claims asserting the infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties seeking damages, the payment of royalties or licensing fees and/or injunctions against the sale of our products. Any such litigation could be protracted and costly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current and future environmental and other governmental requirements could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to conduct our business. 10 Our operations are subject to federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and require cleanup of contaminated sites. While we have not been required historically to make significant capital expenditures in order to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot predict with any certainty our future capital expenditure requirements because of continually changing compliance standards and environmental technology. Furthermore, violations or contaminated sites that we do not know about (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites or newly discovered information) could result in additional compliance or remediation costs or other liabilities, which could be material. We have limited insurance coverage for potential environmental liabilities associated with historic and current operations and we do not anticipate increasing such coverage in the future. We may also assume significant environmental liabilities in connection with acquisitions. In addition, federal, state, local, and foreign governments could enact laws or regulations concerning environmental matters that increase the cost of producing, or otherwise adversely affect the demand for, plastic products. Legislation that would prohibit, tax or restrict the sale or use of certain types of plastic and other containers, and would require diversion of solid waste such as packaging materials from disposal in landfills, has been or may be introduced in the U.S. Congress, state legislatures, and other legislative bodies. While container legislation has been adopted in a few jurisdictions, similar legislation has been defeated in public referenda in several states, local elections and many state and local legislative sessions. Although we believe that the laws promulgated to date have not had a material adverse effect on us, there can be no assurance that future legislation or regulation would not have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, a decline in consumer preference for plastic products due to environmental considerations could have a negative effect on our business. The FDA, regulates the material content of direct-contact food and drug packages we manufacture pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Furthermore, some of our products are regulated by the CPSC, pursuant to various federal laws, including the Consumer Product Safety Act and the Poison Prevention Packaging Act. Both the FDA and the CPSC can require the manufacturer of defective products to repurchase or recall these products and may also impose fines or penalties on the manufacturer. Similar laws exist in some states, cities and other countries in which we sell products. In addition, laws exist in certain states restricting the sale of packaging with certain levels of heavy metals and imposing fines and penalties for noncompliance. Although we use FDA-approved resins and pigments in our products that directly contact food and drug products and we believe our products are in material compliance with all applicable requirements, we remain subject to the risk that our products could be found not to be in compliance with these and other requirements. A recall of any of our products or any fines and penalties imposed in connection with noncompliance could have a materially adverse effect on us. See “Business—Environmental Matters and Government Regulation.” In the event of a catastrophic loss of one of our key manufacturing facilities, our business would be adversely affected. While we manufacture our products in a large number of diversified facilities and maintain insurance covering our facilities, including business interruption insurance, a catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of one of our key manufacturing facilities due to accident, labor issues, weather conditions, natural disaster or otherwise, whether short or long-term, could have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on information technology systems and infrastructure to operate our business, system inadequacies or failures could harm our business. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks. These systems and networks are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including energy or telecommunications failures, breakdowns, natural disasters, terrorism, war, computer malware or other malicious intrusions, and random attacks. To date, system interruptions have been infrequent and have not had a material impact on the business. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent future interruptions that would have a material adverse effect on our business Goodwill and other intangibles represent a significant amount of our net worth, and a future write-off could result in lower reported net income and a reduction of our net worth. As of the end of our 2014 fiscal year, the net value of our goodwill and other intangibles was $2,471 million. We are required to evaluate goodwill reflected on our balance sheet when circumstances indicate a potential impairment, or at least annually, under the impairment testing guidelines outlined in the standard. Future changes in the cost of capital, expected cash flows, or other factors may cause our goodwill to be impaired, resulting in a non-cash charge against results of operations to write off goodwill for the amount of impairment. If a future write-off is required, the charge could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and net worth in the period of any such write-off. 11 Disruptions in the overall economy and the financial markets may adversely impact our business. Our industry is affected by macroeconomic factors, including national, regional, and local economic conditions, employment levels, and shifts in consumer spending patterns. Disruptions in the overall economy and volatility in the financial markets could reduce consumer confidence in the economy, negatively affecting consumer spending, which could be harmful to our financial position and results of operations. In such event, decreased cash flow generated from our business may adversely affect our financial position and our ability to fund our operations. In addition, major macroeconomic disruptions involving the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to access the credit markets and availability of financing for our operations. We had net losses in recent years and we may not be profitable in the future. We generated net income in three of our last five fiscal years; however, in the other two fiscal years, we incurred net losses of over $100 million per year. We may not generate net income from operations in the future, and continuing net losses may limit our ability to execute our strategy. Factors contributing to our financial performance include non-cash impairment charges, depreciation/amortization on our long lived tangible and intangible assets, interest expense on our debt obligations as well as other factors more fully disclosed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We are a holding company and rely on dividends and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations and pay dividends. Berry Plastics Group, Inc. has no direct operations and no significant assets other than ownership of 100% of the stock of Berry Plastics Corporation. Because Berry Plastics Group, Inc. conducts its operations through its subsidiaries, it depends on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations, and to pay any dividends with respect to our common stock. Legal and contractual restrictions in the agreements governing current and future indebtedness of Berry Plastics Group, Inc.’s subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of Berry Plastics Group, Inc.’s subsidiaries, may limit Berry Plastics Group, Inc.’s ability to obtain cash from its subsidiaries. The earnings from, or other available assets of, Berry Plastics Group, Inc.’s subsidiaries may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable Berry Plastics Group, Inc. to pay dividends going forward. The requirements of having a class of publicly traded equity securities may strain our resources and distract management. As a company with publicly traded equity securities, we are subject to additional reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act.” The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Our independent public accountants auditing our financial statements are required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In order to continue to maintain the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting significant resources and management oversight is required. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which we refer to as “Dodd-Frank” and which amended the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other federal laws, has created uncertainty for public companies, and we cannot predict with any certainty the requirements of the regulations that will ultimately be adopted under Dodd-Frank or how such regulations will affect the cost of compliance for a company with publicly traded common stock. There is likely to be continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters because the application of these laws and regulations, which are subject to varying interpretations, may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. We intend to invest resources to comply with these evolving laws and regulations, which will result in increased general and administrative expenses and divert management’s time and attention from other business concerns. Furthermore, if our compliance efforts differ from the activities that regulatory and governing bodies expect or intend due to ambiguities related to interpretation or practice, we may face legal proceedings initiated by such regulatory or governing bodies and our business may be harmed. In addition, new rules and regulations may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified directors and officers and will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Our international sales and operations are subject to applicable laws relating to trade, export controls, and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations. We must comply with all applicable international trade, export and import laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. We are subject to export controls and economic sanctions laws and embargoes imposed by the U.S. Government. Changes in trade sanctions laws may restrict our business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries or with sanctioned entities, and may result in modifications to compliance programs. We are also subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws that generally bar bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. We have implemented safeguards and policies to discourage these practices by our employees and agents. However, our existing safeguards and policies to assure compliance and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. If employees violate our policies, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in sanctions including fines, debarment from export privileges and penalties and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 We may not be able to achieve cost savings as a result of our restructuring efforts and productivity and cost reduction initiatives. From time to time we enter into cost reduction plans designed to deliver cost savings and improve equipment utilization. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. Additionally, there are many factors which affect our ability to achieve savings as a result of productivity and cost reduction initiatives, such as difficult economic conditions, increased costs in other areas, the effects of and costs related to newly acquired entities, mistaken assumptions, and the other risk factors set forth herein. In addition, any actual savings may be balanced by incremental costs that were not foreseen at the time of the restructuring or cost reduction initiatives. As a result, anticipated savings may not be achieved on the timetable desired or at all. Additionally, while we execute these restructuring activities to achieve these savings, it is possible that our attention may be diverted from our ongoing operations which may have a negative impact on our ongoing operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 