RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our business model depends on the continual re-leasing of our aircraft and engines when current leases expire, and we may not be able to do so on favorable terms, if at all. Our business model depends on the continual re-leasing of our aircraft and engines when our current leases expire in order to generate sufficient revenues to finance our growth and operations and pay our debt service obligations. Between December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2009, aircraft leases accounting for approximately 44.7% of our lease revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, are scheduled to expire and the aircraft subject to those leases will need to be re-leased or extended. In addition, nearly all of our engines are subject to short-term leases, which are generally less than 180 days. Our ability to re-lease our aircraft and engines will depend on general market and competitive conditions at the time the leases expire. The general market and competitive conditions may be affected by many factors which are outside of our control. In 2006, we generated $35.7 million of revenues from leases that were scheduled to expire, in 2007, $61.8 million of revenues from leases that were scheduled to expire in 2008 and $100.9 million of revenues from leases that were scheduled to expire in 2009. Since we lease most of our engines under short-term leases (90 to 180 days), we generally re-lease our engines at least once a year. If we are unable to re-lease an aircraft or engine on acceptable terms, our lease revenue may decline and we may need to sell the aircraft or engines at unfavorable prices to provide adequate funds for our debt service obligations and to otherwise finance our growth and operations. If we are unable to successfully integrate AeroTurbine, we may not be able to implement our business strategy. We acquired AeroTurbine in April 2006. Our inability to integrate AeroTurbine would adversely affect a critical component of our business strategy which is focused on leveraging our ability to manage aircraft profitably throughout their lifecycle. AeroTurbine’s engine leasing business, airframe and engine disassembly business and its MRO capabilities are critical components of this strategy because we believe that these businesses and capabilities broaden our ability to extract value from a wide range of aircraft assets, particularly older aircraft, and to lower our maintenance costs. Our ability to successfully integrate AeroTurbine will depend, in part, on the efforts of the former owners of AeroTurbine who are currently its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer. If we are unable to successfully integrate AeroTurbine, we may acquire aircraft and engines that we may not be able to lease at attractive rates, if at all, or profitably disassemble for sale by our parts business. As a result, we may overpay for new aircraft or engines that we acquire. AeroTurbine has different management information and accounting systems than we do, which will need to be integrated into our systems. As we integrate these systems we may discover weaknesses or limitations in AeroTurbine’s management information and accounting systems and internal controls. We may be required to hire additional personnel at AeroTurbine as it transitions to becoming part of our consolidated group. In addition, even if we are able to successfully integrate AeroTurbine, we may be required to incur increased or unanticipated costs. If we are unable to successfully integrate AeroTurbine or if we experience increased costs in integrating AeroTurbine, we may not be able to implement our business strategy, our financial results and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected, and we may fail to benefit from the synergies we expect to result from the AeroTurbine Acquisition. Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. We use floating rate debt to finance the acquisition of a significant portion of our aircraft and engines. All of our revolving credit facilities have floating interest rates. As of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2006, we had $1.8 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, of indebtedness outstanding that was 5 floating rate debt. We incurred floating rate interest expense of $135.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2006. If interest rates increase, we would be obligated to make higher interest payments to our lenders. Our practice has been to hedge the expected future interest payments on a portion of our floating-rate liabilities by entering into derivative contracts. However, we remain exposed to changes in interest rates to the extent that our hedges are not perfectly correlated to our financial liabilities. In addition, if we incur significant fixed rate debt in the future, increased interest rates prevailing in the market at the time of the incurrence or refinancing of such debt will also increase our interest expense. Changes in interest rates may also adversely affect our lease revenues generated from leases with lease rates tied to floating interest rates. In the year ended December 31, 2006, 30.7% of our lease revenue was attributable to leases tied to floating interest rates. Therefore, if interest rates were to decrease, our lease revenue would decrease. In addition, because our fixed rate leases are based, in part, on prevailing interest rates at the time we enter into the lease; if interest rates decrease, new leases we enter into will be at lower lease rates and our lease revenue will be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2006, if interest rates were to increase by 1%, we would expect to incur an increase in interest expense on our floating rate indebtedness of approximately $5.6 million on an annualized basis, excluding the offsetting benefits of interest rate hedges currently in effect, and, if interest rates were to decrease by 1%, we would expect to generate $11.0 million less lease revenue on an annualized basis. Leasing, financing and sales of aircraft, engine, and parts has historically experienced prolonged periods of oversupply during which lease rates and aircraft values have declined, and any future oversupply could materially and adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. In the past, the aircraft and engine leasing, buying and selling businesses have experienced prolonged periods of aircraft and engine oversupply. The oversupply of a specific type of aircraft or engine is likely to depress the lease rates for and the value of that type of aircraft or engine. The supply and demand for aircraft and engines is affected by various cyclical and non-cyclical factors that are outside of our control, including: · passenger and air cargo demand; · fuel costs and general economic conditions; · geopolitical events, including war, prolonged armed conflict and acts of terrorism; · outbreaks of communicable diseases and natural disasters; · governmental regulation; · interest rates; · the availability of credit; · airline restructurings and bankruptcies; · manufacturer production levels and technological innovation; · manufacturers merging or exiting the industry or ceasing to produce aircraft types; · retirement and obsolescence of aircraft models; · reintroduction into service of aircraft previously in storage; and · airport and air traffic control infrastructure constraints. These factors may produce sharp and prolonged decreases in aircraft and engine lease rates and values, and have a material adverse effect on our ability to re-lease our aircraft and engines and/or sell our 6 aircraft engines and parts at acceptable prices. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. Our financial condition is dependent, in part, on the financial strength of our lessees; lessee defaults and other credit problems could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. Our financial condition depends on the financial strength of our lessees, our ability to diligence and appropriately assess the credit risk of our lessees and the ability of lessees to perform under their leases. In 2006, we generated 54.5% of our revenues from leases to the airline industry, and as a result, we are indirectly affected by all the risks facing airlines today. The ability of our lessees to perform their obligations under our leases will depend primarily on the lessee’s financial condition and cash flow, which may be affected by factors outside our control, including: · competition; · fare levels; · passenger and air cargo rates; · passenger and air cargo demand; · geopolitical and other events, including war, acts of terrorism, outbreaks of epidemic diseases and natural disasters; · increases in operating costs, including the price and availability of jet fuel and labor costs; · labor difficulties; · economic conditions and currency fluctuations in the countries and regions in which the lessee operates; and · governmental regulation and associated fees affecting the air transportation business. Generally, airlines with high debt leverage are more likely than airlines with stronger balance sheets to seek operating leases. As a result, many of our existing lessees are in a weakened financial condition and may suffer liquidity problems, and, at any point in time, may experience lease payment difficulties or be significantly in arrears in their obligations under our operating leases. Some lessees encountering financial difficulties may seek a reduction in their lease rates or other concessions, such as a decrease in their contribution toward maintenance obligations. Any future downturns in the airline industry could greatly exacerbate the weakened financial condition and liquidity problems of some of our lessees and further increase the risk of delayed, missed or reduced rental payments. We may not correctly assess the credit risk of each lessee or charge lease rates which correctly reflect the related risks and our lessees may not be able to continue to meet their financial and other obligations under our leases in the future. A delayed, missed or reduced rental payment from a lessee decreases our revenues and cash flow. Our default levels may increase over time if economic conditions deteriorate. If lessees of a significant number of our aircraft or engines default on their leases, our financial results and growth prospects will be adversely affected. 7 The value and lease rates of our aircraft and engines could decline and this would have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. Aircraft and engine values and lease rates have historically experienced sharp decreases due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, decreases in passenger and air cargo demand, increases in fuel costs, government regulation and increases in interest rates. In addition to factors linked to the aviation industry generally, many other factors may affect the value and lease rates of our aircraft and engines, including: · the particular maintenance, operating history and documentary records of the aircraft or engine; · the number of operators using that type of aircraft or engine; · the regulatory authority under which the aircraft or engine is operated; · whether the aircraft or engine is subject to a lease and, if so, whether the lease terms are favorable to the lessor; · any renegotiation of a lease on less favorable terms; · the negotiability of clear title free from mechanics liens and encumbrances; · any regulatory and legal requirements that must be satisfied before the aircraft can be purchased, sold or re-leased; · compatibility of our aircraft configurations or specifications with other aircraft owned by operators of that type; · comparative value based on newly manufactured competitive aircraft or engines; and · the availability of spare parts. Any decrease in the value and lease rates of aircraft or engines which may result from the above factors or other unanticipated factors, may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. The concentration of some aircraft and engine models in our aircraft and engine portfolios could adversely affect our business and financial results should any problems specific to these particular models occur. Due to the high concentration of Airbus A320 family aircraft and CFM56 family engines in our aircraft and engine portfolios, our financial results and growth prospects may be adversely affected if the demand for these aircraft or engine models declines, if they are redesigned or replaced by their manufacturer or if these aircraft or engine models experience design or technical problems. As of December 31, 2006, 85.4% of the net book value of our aircraft portfolio was represented by Airbus aircraft. Our owned aircraft portfolio included 13 aircraft types, the three highest concentrations of which together represented 73.4% of our aircraft by net book value. The three highest concentrations were Airbus A320 aircraft, representing 35.5% of the net book value of our aircraft portfolio, Airbus A321 aircraft, representing 22.7% of the net book value of our aircraft portfolio, and Airbus A330 aircraft, representing 15.2% of the net book value of our aircraft portfolio, as of December 31, 2006. No other aircraft type represented more than 10% of our portfolio by net book value. In addition to our significant number of existing Airbus aircraft, we have 79 new Airbus A320 family aircraft on order either directly or indirectly through our consolidated joint venture, AerVenture, and have 20 new Airbus A330-200 widebody aircraft on order. We also have a significant concentration of CFM56 engines in our engine portfolio. As of December 31, 2006, 86.6% of the net book value of our engine portfolio was represented by CFM56 engines and 8.6% was represented by CF6 engines. 8 Should any of these aircraft or engine types or aircraft manufactured by Airbus in general encounter technical or other problems, the value and lease rates of those aircraft or engines will likely decline, and we may be unable to lease the aircraft or engines on favorable terms, if at all. Any significant technical problems with any such aircraft or engine models could result in the grounding of the aircraft or engines. In addition, if Airbus experiences further financial difficulty or if its restructuring plan is unsuccessful, we could be adversely affected. Airbus has announced that production delays on Airbus’s A380 megajet are expected to reduce profits from 2007 to 2010 by $6 billion. Airbus has also announced that it will need to spend up to $13 billion to redesign its A350 aircraft and that the service entry of its A350 XWB aircraft would be delayed by approximately one year to 2013. In response to the developments, in February 2007 Airbus presented the details of its Power8 restructuring plan, which is designed to address the challenges of the weak US dollar, increased competitive pressure, the financial costs related to the A380 delays and the need to meet Airbus future investment requirements. As part of Power8, Airbus management is expected to implement stringent cost reduction measures, including the reduction of up to 10,000 positions across the Airbus partner countries. Certain of Airbus’ labor unions have threatened to strike if the restructuring plan is implemented. If Airbus experiences further financial and other difficulties and is unable to deliver the aircraft we have ordered from it on time or at all, we could lose the benefit of the terms of our purchase contract for 20 A330 aircraft and AerVenture’s purchase contract and we may be unable to obtain replacement aircraft on comparable terms, or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. If Airbus were to enter into reorganization or bankruptcy, we could in addition lose payments made towards aircraft not yet delivered. Any decrease in the value and lease rates of our aircraft and engines may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. We are indirectly subject to many of the economic and political risks associated with emerging markets, which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. A significant number of our aircraft and engines are leased to airlines in emerging market countries. As of December 31, 2006, we leased 57.7% of our aircraft and 47.1% of our engines, weighted by net book value, to airlines in emerging market countries. The emerging markets in which our aircraft are operated include Thailand, India, Taiwan, Sri Lanka, El Salvador, Jamaica, Malaysia, Colombia, Mexico, Nepal, Turkey, Hungary, Trinidad and Tobago, Russia, Brazil, the Slovak Republic and Indonesia. Emerging market countries have less developed economies that are more vulnerable to economic and political problems and may experience significant fluctuations in gross domestic product, interest rates and currency exchange rates, as well as civil disturbances, government instability, nationalization and expropriation of private assets and the imposition of taxes or other charges by government authorities. The occurrence of any of these events in markets served by our lessees and the resulting economic instability that may arise could adversely affect the value of our ownership interest in aircraft or engines subject to lease in such countries, or the ability of our lessees which operate in these markets to meet their lease obligations. As a result, lessees which operate in emerging market countries may be more likely to default than lessees that operate in developed countries. In addition, legal systems in emerging market countries may be less developed, which could make it more difficult for us to enforce our legal rights in such countries. For these and other reasons, our financial results and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected by adverse economic and political developments in emerging market countries. 9 If our lessees encounter financial difficulties and we decide to restructure our leases, the restructuring would likely result in less favorable leases which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. If a lessee is late in making payments, fails to make payments in full or in part under a lease or has advised us that it will fail to make payments in full or in part under a lease in the future, we may elect or be required to restructure the lease, which could result in less favorable terms or termination of a lease without receiving all or any of the past due amounts. We may be unable to agree upon acceptable terms for some or all of the requested restructurings and as a result may be forced to exercise our remedies under those leases. If we, in the exercise of our remedies, repossess an aircraft or engine, we may not be able to re-lease the aircraft or engine promptly at favorable rates, if at all. You should expect that restructurings and/or repossessions with some lessees will occur in the future. The terms and conditions of possible lease restructurings may result in a significant reduction of lease revenue, which may adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. If we or our lessees fail to maintain our aircraft or engines, their value may decline and we may not be able to lease or re-lease our aircraft and engines at favorable rates, if at all, which would adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. We may be exposed to increased maintenance costs for our leased aircraft and engines associated with a lessee’s failure to properly maintain the aircraft or engine or pay supplemental maintenance rent. If an aircraft or engine is not properly maintained, its market value may decline which would result in lower revenues from its lease or sale. Under our leases, our lessees are primarily responsible for maintaining the aircraft and engines and complying with all governmental requirements applicable to the lessee and the aircraft and engines, including operational, maintenance, government agency oversight, registration requirements and airworthiness directives. Although we require many of our lessees to pay us a supplemental maintenance rent, failure of a lessee to perform required maintenance during the term of a lease could result in a decrease in value of an aircraft or engine, an inability to re-lease an aircraft or engine at favorable rates, if at all, or a potential grounding of an aircraft or engine. Maintenance failures by a lessee would also likely require us to incur maintenance and modification costs upon the termination of the applicable lease, which could be substantial, to restore the aircraft or engine to an acceptable condition prior to sale or re-leasing. Supplemental maintenance rent paid by our lessees may not be sufficient to fund our maintenance costs. Our lessees’ failure to meet their obligations to pay supplemental maintenance rent or perform required scheduled maintenance or our inability to maintain our aircraft or engines may materially and adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. Competition from other aircraft or engine lessors with greater resources or a lower cost of capital than us could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. The aircraft and engine leasing industry is highly competitive. Our competition is comprised of major aircraft leasing companies including GE Commercial Aviation Services, International Lease Finance Corp., CIT Group, Aviation Capital Group, Pegasus Aviation, GATX Air, Air Castle Limited, RBS Aviation Capital, AWAS, Babcock & Brown, Boeing Capital Corp., Pembroke Group Ltd. and Singapore Aircraft Leasing Enterprise, and six major engine leasing companies, including GE Engine Leasing, Engine Lease Finance Corporation, Pratt & Whitney Engine Leasing LLC, Willis Lease Finance Corporation, Rolls-Royce and Partners Finance and Shannon Engine Support Ltd. Some of our competitors are significantly larger and have greater resources or lower cost of capital than us; accordingly, they may be able to compete more effectively in one or more of our markets. On October 18, 2006, GE Commercial Aviation Services completed the acquisition of The Memphis Group, Inc., an aircraft parts trading company. This acquisition could provide competition to our integrated business strategy. 10 In addition, we may encounter competition from other entities such as: · airlines; · aircraft manufacturers and MRO organizations; · financial institutions, including those seeking to dispose of re-possessed aircraft at distressed prices; · aircraft brokers; · public and private partnerships, investors and funds with more capital to invest in aircraft and engines; and · other aircraft and engine leasing companies and MRO organizations that we do not currently consider our major competitors. Some of these competitors have greater operating and financial resources and access to lower capital costs than us. We may not always be able to compete successfully with such competitors and other entities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. We are exposed to significant regional political and economic risks due to the concentration of our lessees in certain geographical regions which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. Through our lessees, we are exposed to local economic and political conditions. Such adverse economic and political conditions include additional regulation or, in extreme cases, requisition of our aircraft or engines. The effect of these conditions on payments to us will be more or less pronounced, depending on the concentration of lessees in the region with adverse conditions. The airline industry is highly sensitive to general economic conditions. A recession or other worsening of economic conditions or a terrorist attack, particularly if combined with high fuel prices or a weak Euro or other local currency, may have a material adverse effect on the ability of our lessees to meet their financial and other obligations under our leases. Lease rental revenues from lessees based in Asia accounted for 43.5% of our lease revenues in 2006. The outbreak of SARS in 2003 had a significant negative effect on the Asian economy, particularly in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. The Asian airline industry has since recovered and is currently experiencing strong growth; however, a recurrence of SARS or the outbreak of another epidemic disease, such as avian influenza, which many experts believe would originate in Asia, could materially and adversely affect the Asian airline industry. Lease rental revenues from lessees based in Europe accounted for 34.9% of our lease revenues in 2006. Commercial airlines in Europe face, and can be expected to continue to face, increased competitive pressures, in part as a result of the deregulation of the airline industry by the European Union and the resulting expansion of low-cost carriers. European countries generally have relatively strict environmental regulations and traffic constraints that can restrict operational flexibility and decrease aircraft productivity, which could significantly increase operating costs of all aircraft, including our aircraft, thereby adversely affecting our lessees. Lease rental revenues from lessees based in North America accounted for 12.8% of our lease revenues in 2006. During the past 15 years, a number of North American passenger airlines filed for bankruptcy and several major U.S. airlines ceased operations altogether. The outbreak of SARS, the war and prolonged conflict in Iraq and the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States have imposed additional financial burdens on most U.S. airlines as a result of increased expenses due to tightened security requirements and have in certain cases led to a temporary reduction in demand for air travel. Lease revenues from lessees based in the Caribbean, accounted for 2.2% of our lease revenues in 2006. 11 Lease revenues from lessees based in Latin America account for 6.6% of our lease revenues in 2006. The economies of Latin American countries are generally characterized by lower levels of foreign investment when compared to industrialized countries and greater economic volatility. Any economic downturn in the Latin American or the Caribbean economies may adversely affect the operations of our lessees in these regions. Our substantial indebtedness incurred to acquire our aircraft and engines requires significant debt service payments. As of December 31, 2006, our consolidated indebtedness was $2.6 billion and our interest expense (including the impact of hedging activities) was $166.2 million in 2006. Due to the capital intensive nature of our business and our strategy of expanding our aircraft and engine portfolios, we expect that we will incur additional indebtedness in the future and continue to maintain high levels of indebtedness. We currently have 79 new A320 family aircraft and 20 new A330-200 widebody aircraft on order from Airbus. When we acquire all 99 of the Airbus aircraft, over the next four years, we expect to incur in excess of $4.0 billion of indebtedness to finance the purchase price of the aircraft. High levels of indebtedness may limit our cash flow available for capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes and may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and growth prospects. In addition, covenants in some of the indebtedness incurred by our subsidiaries prevent our subsidiaries from paying dividends to us if we or the relevant subsidiary do not meet specified financial ratios. In addition, the terms of the Aircraft Lease Securitisation indebtedness allow for distributions on the subordinated notes held by us only after the senior classes of notes are repaid. Aircraft have limited economically useful lives and depreciate over time, which can adversely affect our financial condition and growth prospects. As our aircraft age, they will depreciate and generally the aircraft will generate lower revenues and cash flows. If we do not replace our older depreciated aircraft with newer aircraft, our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and cash flows will decline. In addition, since we depreciate our aircraft for accounting purposes on a straight line basis to the aircraft’s estimated residual value over its estimated useful life, if we dispose of an aircraft for a price that is less than the depreciated book value of the aircraft on our balance sheet, we will recognize a loss on the sale. Our failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business in the future and on our access to the capital markets. Any failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or to implement required, new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to report material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting and could result in a more than remote possibility of errors or misstatements in our consolidated financial statements that would be material. Although we are not currently subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are in the process of documenting and testing our internal controls in order to enable us to satisfy those requirements as of December 31, 2007. Beginning with our next annual report on Form 20-F, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management will be required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and we will be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm audit management’s assessment and the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the value of our ordinary shares could be adversely impacted. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business in the future and on our access to the capital 12 markets. In addition, in connection with our compliance with Section 404 and the other applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time, and may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff, to assure that we comply with these requirements. Compliance may also make some of our activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and other liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain current levels of coverage. The additional management attention and costs relating to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could materially and adversely affect our growth and financial results. The advanced age of some of our aircraft may cause us to incur higher than anticipated maintenance expenses, which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. As of December 31, 2006, we owned 64 aircraft that were over ten years of age, representing 29.7% of the net book value of our aircraft portfolio. In general, the costs of operating an aircraft, including maintenance expenditures, increase as they age. In addition, older aircraft are typically less fuel-efficient, noisier and produce higher levels of emissions, than newer aircraft and may be more difficult to re-lease or sell. In a depressed market, the value of older aircraft may decline more rapidly than the values of newer aircraft and our operating results may be adversely affected. Increased variable expenses like fuel, maintenance and increased governmental regulation could make the operation of older aircraft or engines less profitable and may result in increased lessee defaults. Incurring higher than anticipated maintenance expenses associated with the advanced age of some of our aircraft or our inability to sell or re-lease such older aircraft would materially and adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. The advent of superior aircraft and engine technology could cause our existing aircraft and engine portfolio to become outdated and therefore less desirable, which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. As manufacturers introduce technological innovations and new types of aircraft and engines, some of the aircraft and engines in our aircraft and engine portfolios may become less desirable to potential lessees. In addition, the imposition of increased regulation regarding stringent noise or emissions restrictions may make some of our aircraft and engines less desirable in the marketplace. Any of these risks may adversely affect our ability to lease or sell our aircraft or engines on favorable terms, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. If our lessees’ insurance coverage is insufficient, it could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. While we do not directly control the operation of any of our aircraft or engines, by virtue of holding title to aircraft, directly or indirectly, in certain jurisdictions around the world, we could be held strictly liable for losses resulting from the operation of our aircraft and engines, or may be held liable for those losses on other legal theories. We require our lessees to obtain specified levels of insurance and indemnify us for, and insure against, liabilities arising out of their use and operation of the aircraft. However, following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to airlines for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events. At the same time, aviation insurers significantly increased the premiums for third-party war risk and terrorism liability insurance and coverage in general. As a result, the amount of third-party war risk and terrorism liability insurance that is commercially available at any time may be below the amount stipulated in our leases. 13 Our lessees’ insurance or other coverage may not be sufficient to cover all claims that may be asserted against us arising from the operation of our aircraft and engines by our lessees. Inadequate insurance coverage or default by lessees in fulfilling their indemnification or insurance obligations will reduce the proceeds that would be received by us in the event we are sued and are required to make payments to claimants, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. If we incur significant costs resulting from lease defaults it could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. If we are required to repossess an aircraft or engine after a lessee default, we may be required to incur significant unexpected costs. Those costs include legal and other expenses of court or other governmental proceedings, including the cost of posting surety bonds or letters of credit necessary to effect repossession of aircraft or engine, particularly if the lessee is contesting the proceedings or is in bankruptcy. In addition, during these proceedings the relevant aircraft or engine is not generating revenue. We may also incur substantial maintenance, refurbishment or repair costs that a defaulting lessee has failed to pay and that are necessary to put the aircraft or engine in suitable condition for re-lease or sale. It may also be necessary to pay off liens, taxes and other governmental charges on the aircraft to obtain clear possession and to remarket the aircraft effectively, including, in some cases, liens that the lessee may have incurred in connection with the operation of its other aircraft. We may also incur other costs in connection with the physical possession of the aircraft or engine. We may also suffer other adverse consequences as a result of a lessee default and the related termination of the lease and the repossession of the related aircraft or engine. Our rights upon a lessee default vary significantly depending upon the jurisdiction and the applicable law, including the need to obtain a court order for repossession of the aircraft and/or consents for de-registration or re-export of the aircraft. When a defaulting lessee is in bankruptcy, protective administration, insolvency or similar proceedings, additional limitations may apply. Certain jurisdictions give rights to the trustee in bankruptcy or a similar officer to assume or reject the lease or to assign it to a third party, or entitle the lessee or another third party to retain possession of the aircraft or engine without paying lease rentals or performing all or some of the obligations under the relevant lease. In addition, certain of our lessees are owned in whole, or in part, by government-related entities, which could complicate our efforts to repossess our aircraft or engines in that government’s jurisdiction. Accordingly, we may be delayed in, or prevented from, enforcing certain of our rights under a lease and in re-leasing the affected aircraft or engine. If we repossess an aircraft or engine, we will not necessarily be able to export or de-register and profitably redeploy the aircraft or engine. For instance, where a lessee or other operator flies only domestic routes in the jurisdiction in which the aircraft or engine is registered, repossession may be more difficult, especially if the jurisdiction permits the lessee or the other operator to resist de-registration. We may also incur significant costs in retrieving or recreating aircraft or engine records required for registration of the aircraft or engine, and in obtaining the certificate of airworthiness for an aircraft. If we incur significant costs repossessing our aircraft or engines, are delayed in repossessing our aircraft or engines or are unable to obtain possession of our aircraft or engines as a result of lessee defaults, our financial results and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. 14 If we provide MRO services to third-parties, we may lose some of our existing MRO service provider customers who lease our engines and purchase our parts. A significant portion of our short-term engine leases are to engine MRO service providers, which in turn use the engines to provide their customers with spare engines while the MRO service provider repairs the customer’s engines. Also, a significant portion of our engine parts are sold directly to our engine MRO service provider customers. If we provide MRO services directly to third parties we would compete directly with some of our MRO service provider customers. Some of these MRO service provider customers may choose to lease engines and purchase parts from our competitors with whom they do not directly compete in their MRO business. If our lessees fail to appropriately discharge aircraft liens, we may be obligated to pay the aircraft liens, which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. In the normal course of their business, our lessees are likely to incur aircraft and engine liens that secure the payment of airport fees and taxes, custom duties, air navigation charges, including charges imposed by Eurocontrol, landing charges, crew wages, repairer’s charges, salvage or other liens that may attach to our aircraft or engine. These liens may secure substantial sums that may, in certain jurisdictions or for certain types of liens, particularly liens on entire fleets of aircraft, exceed the value of the particular aircraft or engine to which the liens have attached. Aircraft and engines may also be subject to mechanical liens as a result of routine maintenance performed by third parties on behalf of our customers. Although the financial obligations relating to these liens are the responsibility of our lessees, if they fail to fulfill their obligations, the liens may attach to our aircraft or engines and ultimately become our responsibility. In some jurisdictions, aircraft and engine liens may give the holder thereof the right to detain or, in limited cases, sell or cause the forfeiture of the aircraft or engine. Until they are discharged, these liens could impair our ability to repossess, re-lease or sell our aircraft or engines. Our lessees may not comply with their obligations under their leases to discharge aircraft liens arising during the terms of their leases. If they do not, we may find it necessary to pay the claims secured by such aircraft liens in order to repossess the aircraft or engine. Such payments would materially and adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. Failure to obtain certain required licenses, certificates and approvals could adversely affect our ability to re-lease or sell aircraft and engines, our ability to perform maintenance services or to provide cash management services, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Under our leases, we may be required in some instances to obtain specific licenses, consents or approvals for different aspects of the leases. These required items include consents from governmental or regulatory authorities for certain payments under the leases and for the import, re-export or deregistration of the aircraft and engines. Subsequent changes in applicable law or administrative practice may increase such requirements. In addition, a governmental consent, once given, might be withdrawn. Furthermore, consents needed in connection with future re-leasing or sale of an aircraft or engine may not be forthcoming. To perform some of our cash management services and insurance services from Ireland under our management arrangements with our joint ventures and securitization entities, we require a license from the Irish regulatory authorities, which we have obtained. In addition, to meet our MRO customers’ requirements to maintain certain flight certifications, AeroTurbine requires certificates from the Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA, and European Aviation Safety Agency, or EASA, which it has obtained. A failure to maintain these licenses or certificates or obtain any required license or certificate, consent or approval, or the occurrence of any of the foregoing events, could adversely affect our ability to provide qualifying services or re-lease or sell our aircraft or engines, which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Our ability to operate in some countries is restricted by foreign regulations and controls on investments. Many countries restrict or control foreign investments to varying degrees, and additional or different restrictions or policies adverse to us may be imposed in the future. These restrictions and controls have limited, and may in the future restrict or preclude, our investment in joint ventures or the acquisition of businesses outside of the United States, or may increase the cost to us of entering into such transactions. Various governments, particularly in the Asia/Pacific region, require governmental approval before foreign persons may make investments in domestic businesses and also limit the extent of any such investments. Furthermore, various governments may require governmental approval for the repatriation of capital by, or the payment of dividends to, foreign investors. Restrictive policies regarding foreign investments may increase our costs of pursuing growth opportunities in foreign jurisdictions, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. There are a limited number of aircraft and engine manufacturers and the failure of any manufacturer to meet its aircraft and engine delivery obligations to us could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. The supply of commercial jet aircraft is dominated by two airframe manufacturers, Boeing and Airbus, and three engine manufacturers, GE Aircraft Engines, Rolls-Royce plc and Pratt & Whitney. As a result, we are dependent on these manufacturers’ success in remaining financially stable, producing products and related components which meet the airlines’ demands and fulfilling their contractual obligations to us. Airbus has recently made a series of announcements relating to significant delays and cost overruns in the manufacturing process for the new commercial jet it is developing, the A380 megajet. These delays and cost overruns have resulted in several changes of Airbus’s top management and could lead to Airbus customers canceling existing orders, which would aggravate Airbus’s economic difficulties. Further, competition between Airbus and Boeing for market share is escalating and may cause instances of deep discounting for certain aircraft types, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain an attractive price when we attempt to sell our aircraft in the aftermarket. Should the manufacturers fail to respond appropriately to changes in the market environment or fail to fulfill their contractual obligations, we may experience: · missed or late delivery of aircraft and engines ordered by us and an inability to meet our contractual obligations to our customers, resulting in lost or delayed revenues, lower growth rates and strained customer relationships; · an inability to acquire aircraft and engines and related components on terms which will allow us to lease those aircraft and engines to customers at a profit, resulting in lower growth rates or a contraction in our aircraft portfolio; · a market environment with too many aircraft and engines available, creating downward pressure on demand for the aircraft and engines in our fleet and reduced market lease rates and sale prices; · poor customer support from the manufacturers of aircraft, engines and components resulting in reduced demand for a particular manufacturer’s product, creating downward pressure on demand for those aircraft and engines in our fleet and reduced market lease rates and sale prices for those aircraft and engines; and · reduction in our competitiveness due to deep discounting by the manufacturers, which may lead to reduced market lease rates and sale prices and may affect our ability to remarket or sell some of the aircraft and engines in our portfolio. 16 We will need additional capital to finance our growth, and we may not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us, if at all, which may limit our ability to grow and compete in the aircraft and engine leasing and trading markets. We will need additional capital to continue to expand our business by acquiring additional aircraft, engines and other aviation assets, and financing may not be available to us or may be available to us only on terms that are not favorable. We initially finance the acquisition of aircraft through a combination of medium-term revolving credit facilities and long-term debt structures. Once we obtain a sufficient number and diversity of aircraft financed with medium-term revolving credit facilities, we generally refinance these facilities with long-term debt structures, including securitizations, tax advantaged structures and bank loans. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to acquire, during the period that our credit facilities are available, a sufficient amount of eligible aircraft and engines to allow for an issuance of long-term debt. If we are unable to raise additional funds or obtain capital on terms acceptable to us, we may have to delay, modify or abandon some or all of our growth strategies. Further, if additional capital is raised through the issuance of additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current shareholders would be diluted. Newly issued equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our ordinary shares. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and articles of association”. We are subject to various environmental regulations that may have an adverse impact on our financial results and growth prospects. Governmental regulations regarding aircraft and engine noise and emissions levels apply based on where the relevant airframe is registered, and where the aircraft is operated. For example, jurisdictions throughout the world have adopted noise regulations which require all aircraft to comply with noise level standards. In addition to the current requirements, the United States and the International Civil Aviation Organization, or ICAO, have adopted a new, more stringent set of standards for noise levels which will apply to engines manufactured or certified beginning in 2006. Currently, United States regulations would not require any phase-out of aircraft that qualify with the current standards, but the European Union has established a framework for the imposition of operating limitations on aircraft that do not comply with the new standards. These regulations could limit the economic life of our aircraft and engines, reduce their value, limit our ability to lease or sell the non-compliant aircraft and engines or, if engine modifications are permitted, require us to make significant additional investments in the aircraft and engines to make them compliant. In addition to more stringent noise restrictions, the United States and other jurisdictions are beginning to impose more stringent limits on the emission of nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide emissions from engines, consistent with current ICAO standards. These limits generally apply only to engines manufactured after 1999. None of our 61 aircraft engines were manufactured after 1999. Concerns over global warming could result in more stringent limitations on the operation of aircraft powered by older, non-compliant engines. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the United States, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of its employees. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, permit revocation or other damages. Many of these laws impose liability for clean-up of contamination that may exist at our facilities (even if we did not know of or were not responsible for the contamination) or related personal injuries or natural resource damages or costs relating to contamination at third-party waste disposal sites where we have sent or may send waste. We cannot assure you that we will be at all times in complete compliance with these laws, regulations or permits. We may have liability under environmental laws or be subject to legal actions brought by 17 governmental authorities or other parties for actual or alleged violations of, or liability under, environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or permits. We are the manager for several securitization vehicles and joint ventures and our financial results would be adversely affected if we were removed from these positions. We are the aircraft manager for various securitization vehicles, joint ventures and third parties and receive annual fees for these services. In 2006, we generated revenue of $14.1 million from providing aircraft management services to non-consolidated securitization vehicles and joint ventures and third parties. We may be removed as manager by the affirmative vote of a requisite number of holders of the securities issued by the securitization vehicles upon the occurrence of specified events and at specified times under our joint venture agreements. If we are removed, in the case of our consolidated securitization vehicles and joint ventures, our expenses would increase since such securitization vehicles or joint ventures would have to hire an outside aircraft manager and, in the case of non-consolidated securitization vehicles, joint ventures and third parties, our revenues would decline as a result of the loss of our fees for providing management services to such entities. If we are removed as aircraft manager for any securitization vehicle or joint venture that generates a significant portion of our management fees, our financial results and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our limited control over our joint ventures may delay or prevent us from implementing our business strategy which may adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. We are currently joint venture partners in several joint ventures, including AerVenture, a consolidated joint venture which has entered into a purchase agreement with Airbus for the purchase of up to 70 A320 family aircraft, and it is our strategy to enter into additional joint ventures in the future. Under the AerVenture joint venture agreement, we share control over significant decisions with our joint venture partner. For example, we may not, without the consent of our AerVenture joint venture partner, cause AerVenture to incur any debt outside the ordinary course of business, buy or sell assets or pay dividends to us. Since we have limited control over AerVenture and certain of our other joint ventures and may not be able to exercise control over any future joint venture, we may not be able to require AerVenture or such other joint ventures to take actions that we believe are necessary to implement our business strategy. Accordingly, this limited control could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. The departure of senior managers could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued service of our senior management personnel. For a description of the senior management team, see “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees”. The departure of senior management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy, including the integration of AeroTurbine. In certain countries, an engine affixed to an aircraft may become an accession to the aircraft and we may not be able to exercise our ownership rights over the engine. In some jurisdictions, an engine affixed to an aircraft may become an accession to the aircraft, so that the ownership rights of the owner of the aircraft supersede the ownership rights of the owner of the engine. If an aircraft is security for the owner’s obligations to a third party, the security interest in the aircraft may supersede our rights as owner of the engine. This legal principle could limit our ability to repossess an engine in the event of an engine lease default while the aircraft with our engine installed remains in such jurisdiction. We would suffer a substantial loss if we were not able to repossess engines leased to lessees in these jurisdictions, which would materially and adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. 18 Risks Related to the Aviation Industry As high fuel prices continue to affect the profitability of the aviation industry, our lessees might not be able to meet their lease payment obligations, which would adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. Fuel costs represent a major expense to companies operating in the aviation industry. Fuel prices fluctuate widely depending primarily on international market conditions, geopolitical and environmental events and currency/exchange rates. As a result, fuel costs are not within the control of lessees and significant increases in fuel costs would materially and adversely affect their operating results. Factors such as natural disasters can significantly affect fuel availability and prices. In August and September 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita inflicted widespread damage along the Gulf Coast of the United States, causing significant disruptions to oil production, refinery operations and pipeline capacity in the region, and to oil production in the Gulf of Mexico. These disruptions resulted in decreased fuel availability and higher fuel prices. Fuel prices currently remain at historically high levels. The continuing high cost of fuel has had, and sustained high costs in the future may continue to have, a material adverse affect on airlines’ profitability, including our lessees. Due to the competitive nature of the aviation industry, operators have been and may continue to be unable to pass on increases in fuel prices to their customers by increasing fares in a manner that fully off-sets the increased fuel costs they have incurred. In addition, they may not be able to manage this risk by appropriately hedging their exposure to fuel price fluctuations. If fuel prices remain at historically high levels or increase further due to future terrorist attacks, acts of war, armed hostilities, natural disasters or for any other reason, they are likely to cause our lessees to incur higher costs and/or generate lower revenues, resulting in an adverse affect on their financial condition and liquidity. Consequently, these conditions may adversely affect our lessees’ ability to make rental and other lease payments, result in lease restructurings and/or aircraft and engine repossessions, increase our costs of servicing and marketing our aircraft and engines, impair our ability to re-lease them or otherwise dispose of them on a timely basis at favorable rates or terms, if at all, and reduce the proceeds received for such assets upon any disposition. Any of these events could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. If the effects of terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions continue to adversely affect the financial condition of the airlines, our lessees might not be able to meet their lease payment obligations, which would adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. As a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States and subsequent terrorist attacks abroad, notably in the Middle East, Southeast Asia and Europe, increased security restrictions were implemented on air travel, costs for aircraft insurance and security measures have increased, passenger and cargo demand for air travel decreased and operators have faced and continue to face increased difficulties in acquiring war risk and other insurance at reasonable costs. In addition, war or armed hostilities, or the fear of such events could further exacerbate many of the problems experienced as a result of terrorist attacks. Uncertainty regarding the situation in Iraq and tension over Iran’s and North Korea’s nuclear programs, may lead to further instability in the Middle East. Future terrorist attacks, war or armed hostilities, or the fear of such events, could further adversely affect the aviation industry and may have an adverse effect on the financial condition and liquidity of our lessees, aircraft and engine values and rental rates, and may lead to lease restructurings or repossessions, all of which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. Terrorist attacks and adverse geopolitical conditions have adversely affected the aviation industry and concerns about such events could also result in: · higher costs to the airlines due to the increased security measures; · decreased passenger demand and revenue due to the inconvenience of additional security measures; 19 · uncertainty of the price and availability of jet fuel and the cost and practicability of obtaining fuel hedges under current market conditions; · higher financing costs and difficulty in raising the desired amount of proceeds on favorable terms, if at all; · significantly higher costs of aviation insurance coverage for future claims caused by acts of war, terrorism, sabotage, hijacking and other similar perils, and the extent to which such insurance has been or will continue to be available; · inability of airlines to reduce their operating costs and conserve financial resources, taking into account the increased costs incurred as a consequence of terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions, including those referred to above; and · special charges recognized by some operators, such as those related to the impairment of aircraft and engines and other long lived assets stemming from the grounding of aircraft as a result of terrorist attacks, the economic slowdown and airline reorganizations. Future terrorist attacks, acts of war or armed hostilities may cause certain aviation insurance to become available only at significantly increased premiums, which may be for reduced amounts of coverage that are insufficient to comply with the levels of insurance coverage currently required by aircraft and engine lenders and lessors or by applicable government regulations, or to be not available at all. Although the Aircraft Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act adopted in the United States on September 22, 2001 and similar programs instituted by the governments of other countries provide for limited government coverage under government programs for specified types of aviation insurance, these programs may not continue and governments may not pay under these programs in a timely fashion. Future terrorist attacks, acts of war or armed hostilities are likely to cause our lessees to incur higher costs and to generate lower revenues, which could result in an adverse effect on their financial condition and liquidity. Consequently, these conditions may affect their ability to make rental and other lease payments to us or obtain the types and amounts of insurance required by the applicable leases, which may in turn lead to aircraft groundings, may result in additional lease restructurings and repossessions, may increase our cost of re-leasing or selling the aircraft and may impair our ability to re-lease or otherwise dispose of them on a timely basis at favorable rates or on favorable terms, if at all, and may reduce the proceeds received for our aircraft and engines upon any disposition. These results could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. The effects of SARS or other epidemic diseases may adversely affect the airline industry in the future, which might cause our lessees to not be able to meet their lease payment obligations to us, which would adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. The linking of the 2003 outbreak of SARS to air travel materially and adversely affected passenger demand for air travel at that time. While the World Heath Organization’s travel bans related to SARS were lifted, SARS had a continuing negative affect on the aviation industry, which was evidenced by a sharp reduction in passenger bookings and the cancellation of many flights after the air travel bans had been lifted. While these effects were felt most acutely in Asia, the effect of SARS on the aviation industry also adversely affected other areas, including North America. Since 2003, there have been several outbreaks of avian influenza, beginning in Asia and, most recently, spreading to certain parts of Africa and Europe. Although human cases of avian influenza so far have been limited in number, the World Health Organization has expressed serious concern that a human influenza pandemic could develop from the avian influenza virus. In such an event, numerous responses, 20 including travel restrictions, might be necessary to combat the spread of the disease. Additional outbreaks of SARS or other diseases, such as avian influenza, or the fear of such events, could adversely affect passenger demand for air travel and the aviation industry. These consequences could result in our lessees’ inability to satisfy their lease payment obligations to us, which in turn would adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. The passenger aviation industry is inherently cyclical and a significant downturn in the industry would adversely impact our lessees’ ability to make payments to us, which would adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. The years 2001 through 2004 were characterized by falling demand and rising costs. This industry downturn was exacerbated by the terrorist attacks on 9/11, prolonged military action in Iraq and Afghanistan, rising fuel prices, SARS and avian influenza. As a result, the global airline industry experienced significant financial losses. Many airlines, including some of our lessees, announced or implemented reductions in capacity, service and workforce. Additionally, many airlines sought protection under bankruptcy laws. The airline bankruptcies and the reduction in demand led to the grounding of significant numbers of aircraft and engines and the negotiation of reductions in lease rental rates, which depressed aircraft and engine market values. While the down cycle has ended and the world’s airlines are currently generally performing well, an industry downturn is likely to occur again in the future and the impact could be similar to the impact of the prior downturn. Such a downturn would likely place already financially weakened lessees under further duress, once again putting downward pressure on lease rates. As in the previous downturn, the grounding of undesirable older aircraft would also play a role in depressing aircraft and engine market values. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure If the ownership of our ordinary shares continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other minority shareholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest. Funds and accounts affiliated with Cerberus Capital Management, L.P., or Cerberus, have voting control over approximately 69.3% of our ordinary shares, including shares or options held by members of our senior management, our non-executive directors and a consultant in Bermuda holding companies which are our indirect shareholders. As a result, Cerberus is able to control fundamental corporate matters and transactions, including the appointment of a majority of our directors, mergers, amalgamations, consolidations or acquisitions, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, the amendment of our articles of association and our dissolution. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent acts that would be favored by our other shareholders, such as a change of control transaction that would result in the payment of a premium to our other shareholders. In addition, this concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares if the perception among investors exists that owning shares in a company with a significant shareholder is not desirable. We are a Netherlands public limited liability company (naamloze vennootschap) and it may be difficult for you to obtain or enforce judgments against us or our executive officers, some of our directors and some of our named experts in the United States. We were formed under the laws of The Netherlands and, as such, the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and the civil liability of our directors will be governed by the laws of The Netherlands and our articles of association. The rights of shareholders under the laws of The Netherlands may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. Some of the named experts referred to in this annual report are not residents of the United States, and most of our directors and our executive officers and most of our assets and the assets of our directors are located outside the 21 United States. In addition, under our articles of association, all lawsuits against us and our directors and executive officers shall be governed by the laws of The Netherlands and must be brought exclusively before the Courts of Amsterdam, The Netherlands. As a result, you may not be able to serve process on us or on such persons in the United States or obtain or enforce judgments from U.S. courts against them or us based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to whether Netherlands courts would enforce certain civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws in original actions and enforce claims for punitive damages. Under our articles of association, we indemnify and hold our directors, officers and employees harmless against all claims and suits brought against them, subject to limited exceptions. Under our articles of association, to the extent allowed by law, the rights and obligations among or between us, any of our current or former directors, officers and employees and any current or former shareholder shall be governed exclusively by the laws of The Netherlands and subject to the jurisdiction of the Netherlands courts, unless such rights or obligations do not relate to or arise out of their capacities listed above. Although there is doubt as to whether U.S. courts would enforce such provision in an action brought in the United States under U.S. securities laws, such provision could make enforcing judgments obtained outside of The Netherlands more difficult to enforce against our assets in The Netherlands or jurisdictions that would apply Netherlands law. Our international operations expose us to economic and legal risks associated with a global business. We conduct our business in many countries, and we anticipate that revenue from our international operations, particularly from the Asia/Pacific region, will continue to account for a significant amount of our future revenue. There are risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including: · general political and economic instability in international markets; · limitations in the repatriation of our assets, including cash; · expropriation of our international assets; · different liability standards and less developed legal systems that may be less predictable than those in the United States; and · intellectual property laws of countries that do not protect our international rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. If our subsidiaries do not make distributions to us we will not be able to pay dividends. Substantially all of our assets are held by and our revenues are generated by our subsidiaries. We will be limited in our ability to pay dividends unless we receive dividends or other cash flow from our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our owned aircraft are held through special purpose subsidiaries or finance structures which borrow funds to finance or refinance the aircraft. The terms of such financings place restrictions on distributions of funds to us. If these limitations prevent distributions to us or our subsidiaries do not generate positive cash flows, we will be limited in our ability to pay dividends and may be unable to transfer funds between subsidiaries if required to support our subsidiaries. Risks Related to Taxation We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We do not believe we are currently a PFIC and we intend to conduct our affairs in a manner that will reduce the likelihood of our being a PFIC. The determination as to whether a foreign corporation is a 22 PFIC is a complex determination based on all of the relevant facts and circumstances and depends on the classification of various assets and income under PFIC rules. In our case, the determination is further complicated by the application of the PFIC rules to leasing companies and to joint ventures and financing structures common in the aircraft leasing industry. If we are or become a PFIC, U.S. shareholders may be subject to increased U.S. federal income taxes on a sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares and on the receipt of certain distributions and will be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax reporting requirements. See “Item 10. Additional Information—U.S. Tax Considerations” for a more detailed discussion of the consequences to you if we are treated as a PFIC and a discussion of certain elections that may be available to mitigate the effects of that treatment. We urge you to consult your own tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to your particular circumstances. We may become subject to income or other taxes in jurisdictions which would adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. We and our subsidiaries are subject to the income tax laws of Ireland, The Netherlands, Sweden and the United States and other jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are incorporated or based. In addition, we or our subsidiaries may be subject to additional income or other taxes in these and other jurisdictions by reason of the management and control of our subsidiaries, our activities and operations, where our aircraft operate or where the lessees of our aircraft (or others in possession of our aircraft) are located. Although we have adopted guidelines and operating procedures to ensure our subsidiaries are appropriately managed and controlled to reduce the exposure to such additional taxation, no assurance can be given that we will not be subject to such taxes in the future and that such taxes will not be substantial. The imposition of such taxes could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. We may incur current tax liabilities in our primary operating jurisdictions in the future. While we have not incurred material income tax liabilities in our primary operating jurisdictions in the past due to, among other things, accelerated tax depreciation, deductible financing expenses and intercompany servicing arrangements, we may incur material income tax liabilities in those jurisdictions in the future. Due to the AeroTurbine Acquisition, we expect to pay U.S. income taxes in the future. If we become subject to material income taxes in any of our other primary operating jurisdictions, our increased tax liabilities could adversely affect our cash flows and have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. We may become subject to additional Irish taxes based on the extent of our operations carried on in Ireland. Our Irish tax resident subsidiaries are currently subject to Irish corporate income tax on trading income at a rate of 12.5%, on capital gains at 20%, and on other income at 25%. We expect that substantially all of our Irish income will be treated as trading income for tax purposes in future periods. As of December 31, 2006, we had $355.7 million of Irish tax losses available to carry forward against our trading income. The continued application of the 12.5% tax rate to trading income generated in our Irish tax resident subsidiaries and the ability to carry forward Irish tax losses to shelter future taxable trading income depends in part on the extent and nature of activities carried on in Ireland both in the past and in the future. AerCap Ireland and its Irish tax resident subsidiaries intend to carry on their activities in Ireland so that the 12.5% rate of tax applicable to trading income will apply and that they will be entitled to shelter future income with tax losses that arose from the same trading activity. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be entitled to apply our loss carryforwards against future taxable trading income in Ireland. 23 We may fail to qualify for benefits under one or more tax treaties. We do not expect that our subsidiaries located outside of the United States will have any material U.S. federal income tax liability by reason of activities we carry out in the United States and the lease of assets to lessees that operate in the United States. However, this conclusion will depend, in part, on continued qualification for the benefits of income tax treaties between the United States and other countries in which we are subject to tax (particularly The Netherlands and Ireland). That in turn will depend for the most part on the nature and level of activities carried on by our subsidiaries in each jurisdiction. There can be no assurance that the nature of our activities will be such that our subsidiaries will continue to qualify for the benefits of the income tax treaties with the United States or that we will otherwise qualify for treaty benefits. Failure to so qualify could result in the imposition of U.S. federal taxes which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. 