Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below or referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also adversely impact our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our equity securities likely will decline. Investors and prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks, the risks referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks in our business Our operations have consistently produced losses. Since we began operations on January 31, 2007, our business has consistently produced losses. Although some of our losses have resulted from management transition, reorganization and other costs which we do not expect to continue, until our operations begin to show profits we can not provide any assurance that we will be able to operate profitably. 18 Our financial results are being impacted by the current slowing or recession in the U.S. economy. The trucking industry is the primary customer for our goods and services. Freight and trucking demand in the U.S. generally reflect the amount of commercial activity in the U.S. economy. Because the U.S. economy is slowing or is in recession, demand for our products and services is slowing. For example, the recent decline in housing construction has led to less lumber and construction materials being shipped, and these reduced shipments have resulted in fewer customers and lower sales volumes at our travel centers. If the U.S. economy continues to operate at the present rates or if it declines further, our financial results may not improve or our losses may increase. The weak U.S. dollar compared to other currencies appears to have resulted in less imported consumer goods into the U.S. and less business at our travel centers. During the past 20 years, increasing world trade has resulted in large increases in the importation of consumer goods into the U.S., many of which are transported within the U.S. by truck. Recent declines in the value of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies appears to have lessened the demand for consumer goods imported into the U.S. and this decline is adversely affecting our business of supplying goods and services to truckers. Increases in U.S. exports has not offset this lost business, as many U.S. exports, for example commodities and heavy equipment, generally are not shipped via truck. If the value of the U.S. dollar continues to be weak versus other currencies or if that value declines further, our financial results may not improve or our losses may increase. Recent fuel price increases and fuel price volatility are negatively affecting our business. Fuel prices and price volatility are currently very high. These high prices and the inability to project future prices has had several adverse impacts upon our business. First, high fuel prices have resulted in higher truck shipping costs. This causes shippers to consider alternative means for transporting freight, which reduces trucking business and, in turn, reduces our business. Second, high fuel prices have caused our trucking customers to seek cost savings throughout their businesses. This has resulted in some customers concentrating their fuel business with some of our competitors who are vertically integrated fuel refiners and retailers who may offer lower prices than we offer. Third, higher fuel prices may result in less disposable income for some truckers to purchase our non-fuel goods and services. Fourth, higher and more volatile fuel prices have increased the working capital needed to maintain our fuel inventories, and this increases our costs of doing business. If fuel prices remain high and volatile or if fuel prices or fuel price volatility increase, our financial results may not improve and our losses may increase. Our labor costs are difficult to control. We have recently made reductions in our salaried workforce and we are attempting to implement additional labor costs savings in our hourly workforce to match the recent declines in our business volumes. However, our travel centers operate 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. To maintain and manage our operations requires certain minimum staffing levels. We believe it may be increasingly difficult for us to make staff reductions without adversely affecting our business prospects. Also, certain opportunities for sales may be lost when labor is reduced. For these reasons, our labor costs are difficult to control and we may suffer continuing losses. Our properties require regular and expensive maintenance and capital investments. As noted above, our travel centers are open for business 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. Also, many of our locations were originally constructed more than 25 years ago. Because of the age of many of our properties, especially some of our TA sites, and because of the nature and intensity of our uses of these properties, our properties require regular and expensive maintenance and capital investments 19 to remain functional and attractive to customers. When we commenced business we determined that some of our TA sites required significant capital investments and we obtained a commitment from Hospitality Trust to invest $125 million in our leased TA sites as part of the HPT Transaction. After the HPT Transaction was completed, we determined to accelerate this investment and we raised additional capital, in part, to do so. Recently, because of the slowing U.S. economy and our losses we have determined to defer some of these capital expenditures; our continuing losses are restraining our maintenance and capital expenditures plans. If our financial results do not improve or if we can not access capital necessary to maintain our properties, our business may decline and our losses may increase. Our operating margins are narrow. Our total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, were $6.2 billion; while the sum of our cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation) and site level operating expenses for the same period totaled $5.9 billion. Fuel sales in particular generate low gross margins. Our fuel sales for the year ended December 31, 2007, were $5.1 billion and our gross profit on fuel sales was $171 million. A small percentage decline in our future revenues or increase in our future expenses, especially revenues and expenses related to fuel, may cause us to continue to experience losses or our losses to increase. An interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. To mitigate the risks arising from fuel price volatility, we generally maintain limited inventories of fuel. Accordingly, an interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. Interruptions in fuel supplies may be caused by local conditions, such as a malfunction in a particular pipeline or terminal, by weather related events, or by national or international conditions, such as government rationing, acts of terrorism, war and the like. Any limitation in available fuel supplies which causes a decline in truck freight shipments or which caused a limit on the fuel we can offer for sale may cause us to experience losses or our losses to increase. We are involved in litigation which is expensive and may have adverse impacts upon our business. We are currently involved in litigation which is expensive and which may have adverse consequences to us. For example: •We are a defendant in a civil antitrust case brought by Flying J and its affiliates against us and others. This case was commenced against our predecessor, but we are responsible for its continued defense and any damages which may result. Antitrust litigation is expensive to defend and damages may include triple the amount of injury which has been allegedly incurred plus recovery by the plaintiff of its legal fees. •We are involved in litigation with shareholders who are attempting to make nominations to our Board of Directors and to present proposals of other business for our annual meeting which may be disruptive of our business operations. The dissident shareholders have made proposals and public statements which, if they were implemented, may cause us to default under our Hospitality Trust leases and to default under our existing revolving credit facility. If these litigations and others continue for extended periods or if they result in judgments adverse to us, we may continue to experience losses or our losses may increase. See below Item 3—Legal Proceedings. We rely upon trade creditors for a significant amount of our working capital. Our fuel purchases are our largest operating cost. In 2007, we purchased $4.9 billion of fuel. Historically, we have paid for our fuel purchases after delivery. During the past year as our fuel costs 20 have increased some of our fuel suppliers have been unwilling to adjust the amounts of our available trade credit to accommodate the increased costs of the fuel volumes which we purchase; for example, a $10 million amount of trade credit will allow us to purchase five million gallons of fuel at $2.00 per gallon, but only 3.33 million gallons at $3.00 per gallon. Also, our financial results and business conditions in the U.S. financial markets generally have caused some fuel suppliers to request letters of credit or other forms of security for our purchases. As a result, our investment in our working capital has increased. Any increased investment in working capital decreases our financial flexibility to use our capital for other business purposes and may cause us to continue to experience losses or our losses to increase. Our storage and dispensing of petroleum products create the potential for environmental damages, and compliance with environmental laws may be costly. Our business is subject to laws relating to the protection of the environment. The travel centers we operate include fueling areas, truck repair and maintenance facilities and tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous substances, all of which create the potential for environmental damage. As a result, we regularly incur environmental clean up costs. Our balance sheet as of December 31, 2007, included an accrued liability of $12.8 million for environmental remediation and related costs. Because of the uncertainties associated with environmental expenditures, it is possible that future expenditures could be substantially higher than this amount. Environmental laws expose us to the possibility that we may become liable to reimburse the government or others for damages and costs they incur in connection with environmental hazards. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations may be enacted or how existing laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our products or activities in the future; more stringent laws, more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws in the future could cause us to experience losses. In addition, under the leases between us and Hospitality Trust, we have agreed generally to indemnify Hospitality Trust from environmental liabilities it may incur arising at any of our leased travel centers. Our franchisees may become unable to pay our rents and royalties and we have limited control of our franchisees. Ten travel centers which we lease from Hospitality Trust are subleased to franchisees. An additional 37 travel centers not owned by us or Hospitality Trust are operated by franchisees. Because we have historically experienced losses, the rent and royalties we receive from these franchisees may be significant to us. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the rent and royalty revenue generated from these franchisee relationships was $12.9 million. We believe the deteriorating business conditions which have recently affected the locations which we operate, including the impact of the slowing U.S. economy, the weak U.S. dollar and the high and volatile fuel prices, are also adversely affecting our franchisees and may make it difficult for our franchisees to pay the rent and royalties due to us. Also, various laws and our existing franchise contracts limit the control we may exercise over our franchisees' business activities. A failure by our franchisees to pay rents and royalties to us may cause us to continue to experience losses or cause our losses to increase. Risks arising from our formation and certain relationships We have been recently reorganized. We are a recently reorganized business. Our board and senior management include persons associated with Hospitality Trust and its affiliates and with Reit Management as well as former executives of our predecessor and of Petro. This management team has no prior experience working together and they may not be able to do so successfully. 21 We are obligated to pay material amounts of rent to Hospitality Trust. The terms of our leases with Hospitality Trust require us to pay all of our operating costs and generally fixed amounts of rent. During periods of industry decline, like the one we are currently experiencing, our revenues may decrease but our rents due Hospitality Trust do not decline. A decline in our revenues or an increase in our expenses may make it difficult or impossible for us to meet all of our obligations and, if we default our Hospitality Trust leases, we expect that we may be unable to continue our business. Our business is subject to possible conflicts of interest with Hospitality Trust and Reit Management. Our creation was, and our continuing business is, subject to possible conflicts of interest, as follows: •Two of our directors were trustees of Hospitality Trust at the time we were created. •We have five directors, one of whom, Barry M. Portnoy, also is a trustee of Hospitality Trust and the majority owner of Reit Management, one of whom, Arthur G. Koumantzelis, is a former trustee of Hospitality Trust, and one of whom, Thomas M. O'Brien, is a former executive officer of Hospitality Trust and an employee of Reit Management. •Mr. O'Brien, who serves as our President and Chief Executive Officer, is also an employee of Reit Management. Andrew J. Rebholz, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and John R. Hoadley, another of our Executive Vice Presidents, are also Reit Management employees. Reit Management is the manager for Hospitality Trust and we purchase services from Reit Management pursuant to our management and shared services agreement. We believe that our historical and ongoing business dealings with Hospitality Trust and Reit Management have benefited us and that, despite the foregoing possible conflicts of interest, the transactions we have entered with Hospitality Trust and Reit Management since the HPT Transaction have been commercially reasonable and not less favorable than otherwise available to us. Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions may prevent you from receiving a takeover premium. Our limited liability company agreement, or LLC agreement, includes various provisions which may make it difficult for anyone to cause a change of control of us by means of a tender offer, open market share purchases, a proxy fight or otherwise, without the approval of our board of directors. Among others, these provisions include the following: •a prohibition on the ownership of more than 9.8% of any class or type of our equity securities by any person or group; •staggered terms for members of our board of directors; •the power of our board of directors, without shareholders' approval, to authorize and issue additional shares of any class or type on terms that it determines; •advance notice procedures for shareholder nominations and other proposals; •a 75% shareholders' vote and cause requirements for removal of the entire board of directors; and •a 75% shareholders' vote requirement for shareholder nominations and other proposals which are not approved by our board of directors. In addition, our leases with Hospitality Trust and our management and shared services agreement with Reit Management each provide that our rights and benefits under those agreements may be terminated in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience a change 22 in control, as defined, without the consent of Hospitality Trust or Reit Management, respectively. For these reasons, among others, shareholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for their common shares. We may be unable to meet financial reporting and internal control standards for a publicly owned company. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is the process designed by, or under the supervision of, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and implemented by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and dispositions of assets; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with the authorization of our management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. We may identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, our management was required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and, beginning for the year ending December 31, 2008, we will be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As described in Item 9A(T) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have adjusted the way we account for certain elements of our leases in our 2007 quarterly financial statements which constituted a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting for those quarterly periods related to our lease accounting practices. Although this weakness was corrected and we believe related amounts are properly reflected in our financial statements and data included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to either identify any other material weakness or otherwise conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the price of our traded securities may decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 