Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our equity securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks, the risks referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks in our business Our operations have produced losses. From when we began operations on January 31, 2007, through 2010 our business produced losses. Although some of our historical results were impacted by separation obligations with our former management, business reorganizations and other costs that we do not expect to continue and we have been profitable in 2011 and 2012, we believe our losses in prior periods were also the result of the general decline of the U.S. and world economies over which we have no control. We can not provide any assurance that we will be able to operate profitably in future periods. Our operating margins are narrow. Our total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012, were $8.0 billion, while the sum of our cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation) and site level operating expenses for the same period totaled $7.6 billion. Fuel sales in particular generate low gross margins. Our fuel sales for the year ended December 31, 2012, were $6.6 billion and our gross margin on fuel sales was $0.3 billion, or approximately 4.9% of fuel sales. A small percentage decline in our future revenues or increase in our future expenses, especially revenues and expenses related to fuel, may cause our profits to decline or us to incur losses. Our financial results are affected by U.S. economic condition. The trucking industry is the primary customer for our goods and services. Demand for trucking services in the U.S. generally reflects the amount of commercial activity in the U.S. economy. When the U.S. economy declines, demand for our products and services declines. For example, in the recent past declines in housing construction led to less lumber and construction materials being shipped, and these reduced shipments resulted in fewer customers and lower sales volumes at our travel centers. While the U.S. economy recently has been slowly growing over the past several quarters and trucking activity measures reflect growth in that industry, the strength and sustainability of any economic recovery is uncertain. If the U.S. economy continues to operate as it has over the past few years, or if it worsens, our financial results may not improve and may decline. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and deferred rent obligations, which could adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2012, we had total consolidated indebtedness of $58.2 million, consisting solely of letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility, deferred rent obligations of $150 million and no preferred equity outstanding. On January 15, 2013, we completed an offering of $110 million of our 8.25% Senior Notes due 2028. Together, these obligations are substantial and could limit our ability to obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, refinancing, lease liabilities or 25 Table of Contents other purposes. They may also increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, market and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business operations or to our industry overall, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to competitors that have lower debt levels. Any or all of the above events and factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are obligated to pay material amounts of rent to HPT. The terms of our leases with HPT require us to pay all of our operating costs and generally fixed amounts of rent. During periods of business decline, like the one we experienced during the recent recession, our revenues and gross margins may decrease but our minimum rents due to HPT do not decline. A decline in our revenues or an increase in our expenses may make it difficult or impossible for us to meet all of our obligations and, if we default under our HPT leases, we may be unable to continue our business. Fuel price increases and fuel price volatility negatively affect our business. High fuel prices and the inability to project future prices have several adverse impacts upon our business. First, high fuel prices result in higher truck shipping costs. This causes shippers to consider alternative means for transporting freight, which reduces trucking business and, in turn, reduces our business. Second, high fuel prices cause our trucking customers to seek cost savings throughout their businesses. This has resulted in many customer measures to conserve fuel, such as lower maximum driving speeds and reduced truck engine idling reducing total fuel consumption and our fuel sales. Third, higher fuel prices may result in less disposable income for our customers to purchase our nonfuel goods and services. Fourth, higher and more volatile fuel commodity prices increase the working capital needed to maintain our fuel inventories and receivables, and this increases our costs of doing business. If fuel commodity prices or fuel price volatility increase, our financial results may not improve and may worsen. Our travel centers require regular and expensive maintenance and capital investments. Our travel centers are open for business 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. Also, many of our travel centers were originally constructed more than 25 years ago. Because of the age of many of our travel centers and because of the nature and intensity of the uses of our travel centers, our travel centers require regular expenditures for maintenance and capital investments to remain functional and attractive to customers. If we can not access capital necessary to maintain our properties, our business may decline and our profits may decline or we may incur losses. Also, deferring certain capital expenditures in the near term may require us to make even larger amounts of capital expenditures in the future. Although we may request that HPT purchase future renovations, improvements and equipment at the travel centers that we lease from HPT, HPT is not obligated to purchase any amounts and any amounts it purchases will result in an increase in our rent payable to HPT. We rely upon trade creditors for a significant amount of our working capital and the availability of alternative sources of financing may be limited. Our fuel purchases are our largest operating cost. Historically, we have paid for our fuel purchases after delivery. In the past, as our fuel costs increased with the increase in commodity market prices, some of our fuel suppliers were unwilling to adjust the amounts of our available trade credit to accommodate the increased costs of the fuel volumes that we purchase; for example, a $10 million amount of trade credit will allow us to purchase 5 million gallons of fuel at $2.00 per gallon, but only 3.33 million gallons at $3.00 per gallon. Also, our historical financial results and general U.S. economic 26 Table of Contents conditions have caused some fuel suppliers to request letters of credit or other forms of security for our purchases. We cannot predict how high or low fuel prices may be in the future, and fuel commodity prices significantly impact our working capital requirements. In light of economic, industry and global credit market conditions and our historical operating losses, the availability and terms of any credit we may be able to obtain are uncertain. Although we maintain a credit facility permitting borrowings of up to $200 million, we typically utilize a large portion of that facility for issuances of letters of credit to our fuel suppliers to secure our fuel purchases and to taxing authorities (or surety bond providers) for fuel taxes. In addition, our qualified collateral historically has been below the amount required to permit the entire $200 million under the credit facility to be available to us for borrowings. At December 31, 2012, a total of $132.3 million was available to us for loans and letters of credit under the credit facility. Any increased investment in working capital decreases our financial flexibility to use our capital for other business purposes or to fund our operations and may cause us to suffer losses. Our credit facility is secured by substantially all of our cash, accounts receivable, inventory, equipment and intangible assets and imposes restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to grant security interests in our assets. Further, under the HPT Leases, subject to certain exceptions, our tenant subsidiaries may not incur debt secured by any of their assets used in the operation of the leased travel centers without HPT's consent. Because security interests in a significant amount of our assets have already been granted and we are contractually limited in our ability to incur additional debt or grant security interests, our ability to obtain additional financing may be limited. An interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. To mitigate the risks arising from fuel price volatility, we generally maintain limited fuel inventories. Accordingly, an interruption in our fuel supplies would materially adversely affect our business. Interruptions in fuel supplies may be caused by local conditions, such as a malfunction in a particular pipeline or terminal, by weather related events, such as hurricanes in the areas where petroleum is extracted or refined, or by national or international conditions, such as government rationing, acts of terrorism, wars and the like. Further, our fuel suppliers may fail to provide us with fuel due to these or other reasons. Any limitation in available fuel supplies or on the fuel we can offer for sale may cause our profits to decline or us to experience losses. Our storage and dispensing of petroleum products create the potential for environmental damages, and compliance with environmental laws is often expensive. Our business is subject to laws relating to the protection of the environment. The travel centers we operate include fueling areas, truck repair and maintenance facilities and tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous substances, all of which create the potential for environmental damage. As a result, we regularly incur environmental clean up costs. Our balance sheet as of December 31, 2012, included an accrued liability of $10.4 million for environmental remediation and related costs. Because of the uncertainties associated with environmental expenditures, it is possible that future expenditures could be substantially higher than this amount. Environmental laws expose us to the possibility that we may become liable to reimburse governments or others for damages and costs they incur in connection with environmental hazards or liable for fines and penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations may be enacted or how existing laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our products or activities in the future; more stringent laws, more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws in the future could cause us to expend significant amounts or experience losses. 27 Table of Contents In our experience, the risk of being subject to regulatory review and proceedings for environmental related matters is greater in certain jurisdictions, such as the State of California. We have significant operations in the State of California and are currently and have in the past been subject to regulatory review and proceedings for environmental related matters and may in the future be subject to similar reviews and proceedings in that state or elsewhere. Although to date our environmental regulatory matters in the State of California have not resulted in settlements or judgments against us, or otherwise resulted in our paying or agreeing to pay amounts, which have had, or which we expect would reasonably be likely to have, a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance that they will not have such an effect or that environmental regulatory reviews or proceedings elsewhere would not have such an effect on us. Under the leases between us and HPT, we have agreed to indemnify HPT from environmental liabilities it may incur arising at any of the travel centers we lease from HPT. Although we maintain insurance policies which cover our environmental liabilities, that coverage may not adequately cover liabilities we may incur. To the extent we incur material amounts for environmental matters for which we do not receive insurance or other third party reimbursement or for which we have not recognized a liability in prior years, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. In addition, to the extent we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, or we become subject to costs and requirements not similarly experienced by our competitors, our competitive position may be harmed. Also, to the extent we are or become obligated to fund any such liabilities, such funding obligation could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. Consolidation of our competitors and the third party fuel card companies may negatively affect our business. In 2010, the largest companies in our industry based on diesel fuel volume combined to form Pilot Flying J. As a result of this combination, we may see increased competitive pressure that could negatively impact our sales volumes and profitability and could increase our level of operating and selling, general and administrative expenses. In addition, most of our trucking customers transact business with us by use of fuel cards, which are issued by third party fuel card companies. The fuel card industry has only a few significant participants, including Comdata Network, Inc., or Comdata, the largest issuer of fuel cards, and Electronic Funds Source, LLC, or EFS, a company affiliated with Pilot Flying J. EFS is the product of the combination during 2011 and 2012 of the fuel card businesses of Transportation Clearing House LLC, EFS Transportation Services, Inc., and T-Check Systems, each previously one of the larger competitors to Comdata in the fuel card industry, making, we believe, EFS the second largest competitor in the fuel card industry. We are unable to determine the full extent and effect the combined Pilot Flying J may have on our financial position, results of operations, or competitive position, although we expect the combination may significantly alter the competitive conditions in the travel center industry. Further, we are unable to determine the extent of the effect that competition, or lack thereof, between Comdata and EFS in particular, may result in future increases in our transaction fee expenses or working capital requirements, or both. Many of our labor costs are fixed and cannot be reduced without adversely affecting our business. To maintain and manage our operations requires certain minimum staffing levels to operate our travel centers 24 hours per day, 365 days per year, and we attempt to manage our staffing so to avoid excess, unused capacity. As a result, it may be difficult for us to effect future reductions in our staff without adversely affecting our business prospects. Also, certain opportunities for sales may be lost when labor is reduced. 28 Table of Contents Our customers may become unable to pay us when we extend credit. We sell some of our products on credit. Customers purchasing fuel or other goods or services on credit from us may default on their obligations to pay, or they may extend the payment periods, for products sold to them on credit. In light of the challenging economic conditions that have existed in the U.S. generally during and since the recent recession and in the trucking industry specifically, and the slow and uneven recovery and expansion of the U.S. economy since the recession, the risk that some of our customers may not pay us may be greater at present than it had been prior to the recession. Also, to the extent that we are unable to collect receivables owed to us in a timely fashion, we may be required to increase amounts invested in our working capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are involved in litigation which is expensive and may have adverse impacts upon our business. We are currently involved in litigation which is expensive and which may have adverse consequences to us. If these litigation matters or new litigation matters continue for extended periods or if they result in judgments adverse to us, our profits may decline or we may experience losses. In addition, in our experience, the risk of litigation is greater in certain jurisdictions, such as the State of California. We have significant operations in the State of California and have in the past been, are currently and may in the future be, party to employee and other litigation in that state or elsewhere. Although to date our litigation matters in the State of California have not resulted in settlements or judgments against us which have had, or which we expect reasonably would be likely to have, a material adverse effect on our business, there can be no assurance that they will not have such an effect or that litigation elsewhere would not have such an effect on us. See below Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." Our labor costs may significantly increase as a result of healthcare regulatory initiatives. The adoption of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the related reconciliation measure, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, and the regulations resulting from such legislation may significantly increase the costs of providing health care to our employees. Due to the complexity of the legislation and the uncertain timing and content of the related regulations, we are unable to predict the amount and timing of any such increased costs, but the cost may be material. In addition, it is likely that we will incur additional administrative costs to comply with certain provisions of this legislation. Because many of the rules and regulations have not yet been defined, we are unable to predict the amount of these costs or to what extent we may need to divert other resources to comply with various provisions of this legislation. While the significant costs of the recent healthcare legislation are expected to occur after 2013, changes to our employee healthcare costs could have a significant, adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We may have to expend significant amounts to comply with climate change and other environmental legislation and regulation; and the market reaction to such legislation and regulation and climate change concerns generally may require us to make significant capital or other expenditures and may adversely affect our business. Future climate change legislation and regulation, including those addressing greenhouse gas emissions, may require us to expend significant amounts. In addition, the market reaction to any such legislation or regulation or to climate change concerns generally may cause us to incur increased costs and capital expenditures. Increased costs incurred by our suppliers as a result of climate change or other environmental legislation or regulation may be passed on to us in the prices we pay for our fuel supplies, but we may not be able to pass on those increased costs to our customers. Increased fuel costs resulting from these reasons would likely have similar effects on our business, operations and liquidity as discussed elsewhere regarding high fuel costs, including decreased demand for our fuel at our travel centers, increased working capital needs and decreased fuel gross margins. Further, legislation and 29 Table of Contents regulations that limit carbon emissions may cause our energy costs at our travel centers to increase. Moreover, technological changes developed or changes in customer transportation or fueling preferences, including as a result of or in response to any such legislation, regulation or market reaction, may require us to make significant capital or other expenditures to adopt those technologies or to address those changed preferences and may decrease the demand for products and services sold at our travel centers. For example, federal and state governmental requirements addressing emissions from trucks and other motor vehicles, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's gasoline and diesel sulfur control requirements that limit the concentration of sulfur in motor gasoline and diesel fuel, could negatively impact our business by making the fuel more expensive and causing our customers to buy less. For more information regarding climate change matters and their possible adverse impact on us, please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis—Environmental and Climate Change Matters." Our franchisees may become unable to pay our rents, franchise royalties and other fees and we have limited control of our franchisees. Six travel centers which we lease from HPT are subleased to franchisees. A failure by our franchisees to pay rents to us would not affect our minimum rent payable to HPT. As of December 31, 2012, an additional 29 travel centers not owned by us or HPT are operated by franchisees. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the rent, franchise royalty and other fee revenue generated from all of our franchisee relationships was $14.7 million, including $2.8 million earned in the periods during 2012 from eight franchisee businesses prior to the respective times that we acquired those businesses in 2012. We believe the difficult business conditions which have affected the locations which we operate during and since the recent U.S. recession, including the effects of U.S. economic conditions and high and volatile fuel commodity prices, have also adversely affected our franchisees and may make it difficult for our franchisees to pay the rent, franchise royalties and other fees due to us. In addition, our sublease and franchise agreements with our franchisees are subject to periodic renewal by us or the franchisee. Also, various laws and our existing franchise agreements limit the control we may exercise over our franchisees' business activities. A failure by our franchisees to pay rent, franchise royalties and other fees to us, or the termination or non-renewal of a significant number of our franchise agreements, may cause our profits to decline. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of information technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems including the Internet, or IT systems, to process, transmit and store electronic information, including financial records and personal identifying information such as employee and payroll data and workforce scheduling information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including our supply chain, retail sales, credit card payments and authorizations, financial transactions, banking and numerous other processes and transactions. We purchase some of the IT systems we use from vendors on whom our IT systems materially depend. We rely on commercially available and proprietary IT systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and credit information. In addition, the IT systems we use for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, may put payment card data at risk; and some of these IT systems are determined and controlled by the payment card suppliers and not by us. Although we have taken steps to protect and maintain the security of the IT systems we use and the data maintained in them, it is possible that our security measures will not prevent the improper functioning of or damage to the IT systems we use, or the improper access to such IT systems or disclosure of personally identifiable information, such as in the event of a cyber attack. Security breaches, including physical or electronic breakins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of 30 Table of Contents confidential information. Any compromise or breach of our IT systems could cause material interruptions in our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to material liability claims or regulatory penalties, reduce our customers' willingness to conduct business with us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the failure of the IT systems we use to operate effectively, or problems we may experience with maintaining the IT systems we currently use or transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, could significantly harm our business and operations and cause us to incur significant costs to remediate such problems. Our sales could be harmed if our suppliers, franchisors or licensors become associated with negative publicity. We sell branded gasoline at some of our travel centers and most of our travel centers have QSRs. If the companies or brands associated with these products and offerings become associated with negative publicity, our customers may avoid purchasing these products and offerings, including at our travel centers, and may avoid visiting our travel centers because of our association with the particular company or brand, which could harm our sales and results of operations. Privatization of toll roads or of rest areas may negatively affect our business. Some states have privatized their toll roads that are part of the interstate highway system. We believe it is likely that tolls will increase on privatized highways. In addition, some states may increase tolls for their own account. If tolls are introduced or increased on highways in the proximity of our travel centers, our business at those travel centers may decline because truckers may seek alternative routes. Similarly, some states have privatized or are considering privatizing their publicly owned highway rest areas. If publicly owned rest areas along highways are privatized and converted to travel centers in the proximity of some of our travel centers, our business at those travel centers may decline and we may experience losses. We may be unable to utilize our net operating loss carry forwards. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, imposes limitations on the ability of a company taxable as a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change", as defined by the Code, to use its net operating loss carry forwards to reduce its tax liability. As a result of certain trading in our shares during 2007, we experienced an ownership change. Consequently, we are unable to use our net operating loss generated in 2007 to offset any future taxable income we may generate. If we experience additional ownership changes, our net operating losses generated after 2007 could also be subject to limitations on usage. Since the ownership change in 2007, we experienced a substantial amount of trading in our shares. In 2009, our bylaws were amended to impose certain restrictions on the transfer of our shares in order to help us preserve the tax treatment of our net operating losses and other tax benefits (see below for a discussion of the risks related to our ownership limitations under the heading "Risks arising from certain relationships of ours and our organization and structure"). If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting our financial reporting could be inaccurate. Internal control systems are intended to provide reasonable assurance regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements. We concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2011. During 2011 we identified certain deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to our historical methodology for impairment analysis of our property and equipment, our assigning of depreciable lives to leasehold assets and our amortization of our sale/leaseback financing obligation. We believe we recorded appropriate adjustments so that the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Item 15 of this Annual Report present fairly, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations and 31 Table of Contents cash flows for the periods presented, and that during 2012 we remediated the identified deficiencies in order to improve our internal control over financial reporting for future financial reporting; however, we cannot assure you that we will not discover other material weaknesses in our controls. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our common shares or other securities may decline. Risks arising from certain relationships of ours and our organization and structure Our business is subject to possible conflicts of interest with HPT and RMR. Our business is subject to possible conflicts of interest, as follows: •We have five Directors: one of whom, Barry M. Portnoy, also is a managing trustee of HPT, and Chairman, the majority owner and an employee of RMR; one of whom, Arthur G. Koumantzelis, is a former trustee of HPT from prior to when we became a separate public company; and one of whom, Thomas M. O'Brien, is a former executive officer of HPT. Further, Mr. Portnoy and all of our Independent Directors are members of the boards of trustees or boards of directors of other companies to which RMR or its affilites provides management services. •Mr. O'Brien, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew J. Rebholz, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and Mark R. Young, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, are also officers of RMR. •We lease a large majority of our travel centers from HPT. •RMR provides us business management and shared services pursuant to a business management and shared services agreement and property management services with respect to our headquarters building pursuant to a property management agreement, and RMR provides business and property management services to HPT. •In the event of conflicts between us and RMR, any affiliate of RMR or any publicly owned entity with which RMR has a relationship, including HPT, our business management and shared services agreement allows RMR to act on its own behalf and on behalf of HPT or such other entity rather than on our behalf. •RMR's simultaneous contractual obligations to us and HPT create potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts. In connection with the agreement we entered as part of the HPT Transaction, we granted HPT a right of first refusal to purchase, lease, mortgage or otherwise finance any interest we own in a travel center before we sell, lease, mortgage or otherwise finance that travel center with another party, and we granted HPT and other entities to which RMR provides management services a right of first refusal to acquire or finance any real estate of the types in which they invest before we do, which could limit our ability to purchase or finance our properties or properties we may wish to invest in or acquire in the future. Also, under this agreement we agreed not to take any action that might reasonably be expected to have a material adverse impact on HPT's ability to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT. We believe that our historical and ongoing business dealings with HPT and RMR have benefited us and that, despite the foregoing possible conflicts of interest, the transactions we have entered with HPT and RMR since the HPT Transaction have been commercially reasonable and not less favorable than otherwise available to us. Nonetheless, in the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, 32 Table of Contents dissident shareholder director nominations and dissident shareholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with HPT, RMR, AIC, the other businesses and entities to which RMR provides management services, Barry M. Portnoy and RMR's affiliates may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention. We have significant commercial arrangements with RMR and HPT and we are dependent on those arrangements in operating our business. We are party to a business management and shared services agreement with RMR, whereby RMR assists us with various aspects of our business, and a property management agreement with RMR, whereby RMR manages our headquarters office building. One of our Directors is the majority owner and Chairman of RMR. One of our other Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and our Executive Vice President and General Counsel are also officers of RMR. Most of the travel centers that we operate are leased by us, principally from HPT. As a result of these factors, we are dependent on our arrangements with RMR and HPT in operating our business and any adverse developments in those arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to conduct our operations. Territorial restrictions placed on us by our leases with HPT and our franchise agreements with our franchisees could impair our ability to grow our business. Under our leases with HPT, without the consent of HPT, we generally cannot own, franchise, finance, operate, lease or manage any travel center or similar property within 75 miles in either direction along the primary interstate on which a travel center owned by HPT is located. Under the terms of our franchise agreements for TA travel centers, generally we have agreed not to operate, or allow another person to operate, a travel center or travel center business that uses the TA brand in a specified territory for that TA branded franchise location. Under the terms of our franchise agreements for Petro travel centers, generally we have agreed not to operate, or allow another person to operate, a travel center or travel center business that uses the Petro brand in a specified territory for that Petro branded franchise location. As a result of these restrictions, we may be unable to develop, acquire or franchise a travel center in an area in which an additional travel center may be profitable, thereby losing an opportunity for future growth of our business. Ownership limitations, anti-takeover and other provisions in our limited liability company agreement, bylaws and certain material agreements may prevent our shareholders from receiving a takeover premium or from implementing changes. Our limited liability company agreement, or our LLC agreement, and bylaws contain separate provisions which prohibit any shareholder from owning more than 9.8% and 5% of the number or value of any class or series of our outstanding shares. The 9.8% ownership limitation in our LLC agreement is consistent with our contractual obligations with HPT to not take actions that may conflict with HPT's status as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. The 5% ownership limitation in our bylaws is intended to help us preserve the tax treatment of our net operating losses and other tax benefits. We also believe these provisions promote good orderly governance. These provisions inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may prevent a change in our control. Additionally, many provisions contained in our LLC Agreement and bylaws may further deter persons from attempting to acquire control of us and implement changes that may be beneficial to our shareholders, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our Directors into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change of control; 33 Table of Contents •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Director and a requirement that certain of our Directors be "Managing Directors" and other Directors be "Independent Directors", as defined in the governing documents; •the power of our Board of Directors, without shareholders' approval, to authorize and issue additional shares of any class or type on terms that it determines; •limitations on the ability of our shareholders to propose nominees for election as Directors and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of shareholders; •a requirement that an individual Director may only be removed for cause and then only by unanimous vote of the other Directors; and a 75% shareholders' vote and cause requirements for removal of our entire Board of Directors; •a 75% shareholders' vote requirement for shareholder nominations and other proposals which are not approved by our Board of Directors; •the authority of our Board of Directors, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors; •limitations on the ability of shareholders to cause a special meeting of shareholders to be held and a prohibition on shareholders acting by written consent unless the consent is a unanimous consent of all our shareholders entitled to vote on the matter; •because of our ownership of AIC, we are an insurance holding company under applicable state law; accordingly, anyone who intends to solicit proxies for a person to serve as one of our Directors or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Directors may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators; •requirements that shareholders comply with regulatory requirements (including Nevada and Louisiana gaming and Indiana insurance licensing requirements) affecting us which could effectively limit share ownership of us, including in some cases, to 5% of our outstanding shares; and •requirements that any person nominated to be a Director comply with clearance and pre-clearance requirements of state laws applicable to our business including clearance and pre-clearance by Nevada and Louisiana gambling authorities and Indiana insurance regulators. In addition, the HPT Leases, our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC, our business management and shared services agreement with RMR and our credit facility each provide that our rights and benefits under those agreements may be terminated in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control, as defined in those agreements, without the consent of HPT, RMR or the lenders under the credit facility, respectively, and that AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC if such an acquisition occurs or if we experience some other change of control. In addition, our obligation to repay deferred rent then outstanding under our amended leases with HPT may be accelerated if, among other things, a Director not nominated or appointed by the then members of our Board of Directors is elected to our Board of Directors or if our shareholders adopt a proposal (other than a precatory proposal) not recommended for adoption by the then members of our Board of Directors. For these reasons, among others, our shareholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for securities they own or otherwise effect a change of our policies or a change of our control. 34 Table of Contents Certain aspects of our business may prevent shareholders from accumulating large share ownership, from nominating or serving as Directors, or from taking actions to otherwise control our business. Certain of our properties include gambling operations. Applicable state laws require that any shareholder who owns or controls 5% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to serve as one of our Directors must be licensed or approved by the state regulators responsible for gambling operations. Similarly, as an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any shareholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Directors or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Directors may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators. These approval and pre-approval procedures may discourage or prevent investors from purchasing our securities, from nominating persons to serve as our Directors or from taking other actions. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Directors, officers, HPT and RMR are limited. Our LLC agreement eliminates the personal liability of each of our Directors to us and our shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as our Director, except for a breach of the Director's duty of loyalty to us or our shareholders as modified by our LLC agreement, for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involved intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, or for any transaction from which the Director derived an improper personal benefit. Our LLC agreement also provides that our Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors and officers of HPT and RMR shall not be liable for monetary damages to us or our shareholders for losses sustained or liabilities incurred as a result of any act or omission by any of them unless there has been a final, nonappealable judgment entered by a court determining that such person or entity acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud, willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that his, her or its conduct was unlawful. Our LLC agreement also generally requires us to indemnify, to the fullest extent permitted by law, our present and former Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors and officers of HPT and RMR for losses that may occur arising from claims or actions in which any of them may be involved in connection with any act or omission by such person or entity in good faith on behalf of or with respect to us. We also have similar obligations to our Directors and officers under individual indemnification agreements with such persons. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors and officers of HPT and RMR without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Directors and officers, HPT, RMR, and the respective directors and officers of HPT and RMR than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our LLC agreement or that might exist with other companies, which could limit our shareholders' recourse in the event of actions not in our shareholders' best interest. Disputes with HPT and RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our Directors and officers may be referred to binding arbitration. Our contracts with HPT and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration. Similarly, our LLC agreement and bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our Directors and officers, including derivative and class actions, may be referred to binding arbitration. As a result, we and our shareholders may not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against HPT, RMR or our Directors or officers. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. 35 Table of Contents We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC. We have invested approximately $5.2 million in Affiliates Insurance Company, or AIC, we have purchased substantially all of our property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC and we are currently investigating the possibilities to expand our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. We, RMR, HPT and five other companies to which RMR provides management services, each own 12.5% of AIC and we and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program designed and reinsured in part by AIC. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. These beneficial financial results may not occur and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may be insufficiently capitalized. Accordingly, our anticipated financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may be delayed or not achieved and we may experience losses from these dealings. Risks related to our securities Our shares have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility and may continue to do so. Since we became a publicly traded company in January 2007, our shares have experienced significant share price and trading volatility, which may continue. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated and could fluctuate significantly in the future in response to various factors and events, including, but not limited to, the risks set out in this Annual Report, as well as: •the liquidity of the market for our common shares; •changes in our operating results; •changes in analysts' expectations; and •general economic and industry trends and conditions. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common shares. Our credit facility restricts our payment of cash dividends on our common shares, unless certain requirements under the credit facility are met, including that excess availability is not less than 20% after any such payment, and our rent deferral agreement with HPT prohibits us from paying any dividends while any deferred rent remains unpaid. We currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our credit facility imposes restrictive covenants on us, and a default under the agreements relating to our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our credit facility requires us and our subsidiaries, among other obligations, to maintain a specified financial ratio under certain circumstances and to satisfy certain financial tests. These tests include maintenance of certain financial ratios any time that excess availability under the credit facility falls below 15% of the maximum credit limit of $200 million, until such time that the excess availability has been greater than 15% of the maximum credit limit for thirty consecutive days. In addition, our credit facility restricts, among other things, our ability to incur debt and liens, make certain investments 36 Table of Contents and pay dividends and other distributions including, under certain circumstances, payments on the Senior Notes. Under certain circumstances, we are required to seek permission from the lenders under our credit facility to engage in specified corporate actions. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants (or similar covenants contained in future financing agreements) could result in a default under out credit facility and other agreements containing cross-default provisions, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A default would permit lenders or holders, excluding holders of the Senior Notes, to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt and to terminate any commitments to lend. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations, including our obligations under the Senior Notes. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. If our indebtedness were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. In such circumstances, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation and, as a result, investors could lose their investment in our securities. The indenture under which the Senior Notes were issued does not contain financial covenants and does not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. The indenture under which the Senior Notes were issued contains no financial covenants or other provisions that would afford the holders of the Senior Notes any substantial protection in the event we participate in a material transaction. In addition, the indenture does not limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur or our ability to pay dividends, make distributions or repurchase shares of our common stock. As a result, noteholders are not protected under the indenture in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, change of control, restructuring, sale of significant amount of assets, merger or similar transaction that may adversely affect them. The Senior Notes are unsecured and effectively subordinated to all of our existing and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. Upon any distribution to our creditors in a bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or similar proceeding relating to us or our property, the holders of our secured debt, including the lenders under our credit facility, will be entitled to exercise the remedies available to a secured lender under applicable law and pursuant to the instruments governing such debt and to be paid in full from the assets securing that secured debt before any payment may be made with respect to the Senior Notes. In that event, because the Senior Notes are not secured by any of our assets, it is possible that there will be no assets from which claims of holders of the Senior Notes can be satisfied or, if any assets remain, that the remaining assets will be insufficient to satisfy those claims in full. If the value of such remaining assets is less than the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Senior Notes and accrued interest and all future debt ranking pari passu with the Senior Notes, we will be unable to fully satisfy our obligations under the Senior Notes. In addition, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our secured debt, the holders of that secured debt would be entitled to foreclose on our assets securing that secured debt and liquidate those assets. Accordingly, we may not have sufficient funds to pay amounts due on the Senior Notes. As a result, noteholders may lose a portion of or the entire value of their investment in the Senior Notes. Our credit facility is secured by substantially all of the personal property of the borrowers and the guarantors, including a first-priority security interest in 100% of the equity interests of the borrowers and each of their domestic majority owned subsidiaries, 65% of the equity interests of each of the borrowers' foreign majority owned subsidiaries, and all intercompany debt. The amount available to us 37 Table of Contents under our credit facility is determined by reference to a borrowing base calculated based on eligible collateral. At December 31, 2012, this borrowing base calculation provided a total of $132.3 million available for loans and letters of credit under the credit facility. At December 31, 2012, there were no loans outstanding under the credit facility but we had outstanding $58.2 million of letters of credit issued under that facility securing certain purchases, insurance, fuel taxes and other trade obligations. Further, the terms of the Senior Notes permit us to incur additional secured indebtedness. The Senior Notes will be effectively subordinated to any such additional secured indebtedness. An active trading market for the Senior Notes may not develop, be maintained or be liquid. We can give no assurances concerning the liquidity of any market that may develop for the Senior Notes, the ability of any investor to sell the Senior Notes, or the price at which investors would be able to sell them. If a market for the Senior Notes does not develop, investors may be unable to resell the Senior Notes for an extended period of time, if at all. If a market for the Senior Notes does develop, it may not continue or it may not be sufficiently liquid to allow holders to resell any of the Senior Notes. Consequently, investors may not be able to liquidate their investment readily, and lenders may not readily accept the Senior Notes as collateral for loans. The Senior Notes may trade at a discount from their initial issue price or principal amount, depending upon many factors, including prevailing interest rates, the market for similar securities and other factors, including general economic conditions and our financial condition, performance and prospects. Any decline in trading prices, regardless of cause, may adversely affect the liquidity and trading markets for the Senior Notes. We depend upon our subsidiaries for cash flow to service our debt, and the Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to the payment of the indebtedness, lease and other liabilities and any preferred equity of our subsidiaries. We are the sole obligor on the Senior Notes. We derive all of our revenue and cash flow from our subsidiaries and our ability to service our debt, including the Senior Notes, is substantially dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to make cash available to us. In addition, most of our contractual and other obligations are obligations of our subsidiaries and thus structurally senior to our obligations on the Senior Notes. None of our subsidiaries guarantee the Senior Notes. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due on the Senior Notes, or to make any funds available therefore, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments, and the rights of holders of Senior Notes to benefits from any of the assets of our subsidiaries are structurally subordinated to the claims of our subsidiaries' creditors and any preferred equity holders. As a result, the Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to the prior payment and satisfaction of all of the existing and future debts, liabilities and obligations, including payment obligations under the HPT lease agreements, trade payables and any preferred equity, of our subsidiaries. Any future subsidiary debt or obligation, whether or not secured, or any preferred equity of our subsidiaries will have priority over the Senior Notes. As of December 31, 2012, our subsidiaries had total indebtedness of $58.2 million, consisting solely of letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility under which our subsidiaries are either co-borrowers or guarantors, and deferred rent obligations of $150 million, which are structurally senior to the Senior Notes. Our deferred rent is due in two installments, $107.1 million due on December 31, 2022, and $42.9 million due on June 30, 2024. 38 Table of Contents The Senior Notes are not rated. The Senior Notes are not rated by any rating agency. Unrated securities usually trade at a discount to similar rated securities. As a result, the Senior Notes may trade at a price that is lower than they might otherwise trade if rated by a rating agency. It is possible, however, that one or more rating agencies might independently determine to assign a rating to the Senior Notes. In addition, we may elect to issue other securities for which we may seek to obtain a rating. If any ratings are assigned to the Senior Notes in the future or if we issue other securities with a rating, such ratings, if they are lower than market expectations or are subsequently lowered or withdrawn, could adversely affect the market for or the market value of the Senior Notes. Redemption may adversely affect noteholders' return on the Senior Notes. We have the right to redeem some or all of the Senior Notes prior to maturity. We may redeem the Senior Notes at times when prevailing interest rates may be relatively low compared to prevailing rates at the time of issuance of the Senior Notes. Accordingly, noteholders may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as that of the Senior Notes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 